Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9114
Standards Track
June 2022
2070-1721
M. Bishop,
Akamai

 Ed.

RFC 9114
HTTP/3

Abstract

The QUIC transport protocol has several features that are desirable in a transport for HTTP, such
as stream multiplexing, per-stream ﬂow control, and low-latency connection establishment. This
document describes a mapping of HTTP semantics over QUIC. This document also identiﬁes
HTTP/2 features that are subsumed by QUIC and describes how HTTP/2 extensions can be ported
to HTTP/3.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

.
https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9114

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Prior Versions of HTTP

1.2.  Delegation to QUIC

2.  HTTP/3 Protocol Overview

2.1.  Document Organization

2.2.  Conventions and Terminology

3.  Connection Setup and Management

3.1.  Discovering an HTTP/3 Endpoint

3.1.1.  HTTP Alternative Services

3.1.2.  Other Schemes

3.2.  Connection Establishment

3.3.  Connection Reuse

4.  Expressing HTTP Semantics in HTTP/3

4.1.  HTTP Message Framing

4.1.1.  Request Cancellation and Rejection

4.1.2.  Malformed Requests and Responses

4.2.  HTTP Fields

4.2.1.  Field Compression

4.2.2.  Header Size Constraints

4.3.  HTTP Control Data

4.3.1.  Request Pseudo-Header Fields

4.3.2.  Response Pseudo-Header Fields

4.4.  The CONNECT Method

4.5.  HTTP Upgrade

4.6.  Server Push

5.  Connection Closure

5.1.  Idle Connections

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

5.2.  Connection Shutdown

5.3.  Immediate Application Closure

5.4.  Transport Closure

6.  Stream Mapping and Usage

6.1.  Bidirectional Streams

6.2.  Unidirectional Streams

6.2.1.  Control Streams

6.2.2.  Push Streams

6.2.3.  Reserved Stream Types

7.  HTTP Framing Layer

7.1.  Frame Layout

7.2.  Frame Deﬁnitions

7.2.1.  DATA

7.2.2.  HEADERS

7.2.3.  CANCEL_PUSH

7.2.4.  SETTINGS

7.2.5.  PUSH_PROMISE

7.2.6.  GOAWAY

7.2.7.  MAX_PUSH_ID

7.2.8.  Reserved Frame Types

8.  Error Handling

8.1.  HTTP/3 Error Codes

9.  Extensions to HTTP/3

10. Security Considerations

10.1.  Server Authority

10.2.  Cross-Protocol Attacks

10.3.  Intermediary-Encapsulation Attacks

10.4.  Cacheability of Pushed Responses

10.5.  Denial-of-Service Considerations

10.5.1.  Limits on Field Section Size

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

10.5.2.  CONNECT Issues

10.6.  Use of Compression

10.7.  Padding and Traﬃc Analysis

10.8.  Frame Parsing

10.9.  Early Data

10.10. Migration

10.11. Privacy Considerations

11. IANA Considerations

11.1.  Registration of HTTP/3 Identiﬁcation String

11.2.  New Registries

11.2.1.  Frame Types

11.2.2.  Settings Parameters

11.2.3.  Error Codes

11.2.4.  Stream Types

12. References

12.1.  Normative References

12.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Considerations for Transitioning from HTTP/2

A.1.  Streams

A.2.  HTTP Frame Types

A.2.1.  Prioritization Diﬀerences

A.2.2.  Field Compression Diﬀerences

A.2.3.  Flow-Control Diﬀerences

A.2.4.  Guidance for New Frame Type Deﬁnitions

A.2.5.  Comparison of HTTP/2 and HTTP/3 Frame Types

A.3.  HTTP/2 SETTINGS Parameters

A.4.  HTTP/2 Error Codes

A.4.1.  Mapping between HTTP/2 and HTTP/3 Errors

Acknowledgments

Index

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

[HTTP]

HTTP semantics (
) are used for a broad range of services on the Internet. These semantics
have most commonly been used with HTTP/1.1 and HTTP/2. HTTP/1.1 has been used over a variety
of transport and session layers, while HTTP/2 has been used primarily with TLS over TCP. HTTP/3
supports the same semantics over a new transport protocol: QUIC.

1.1.  Prior Versions of HTTP

[HTTP/1.1]

HTTP/1.1 (
exchanges are human readable, using whitespace for message formatting leads to parsing
complexity and excessive tolerance of variant behavior.

) uses whitespace-delimited text ﬁelds to convey HTTP messages. While these

Because HTTP/1.1 does not include a multiplexing layer, multiple TCP connections are often used
to service requests in parallel. However, that has a negative impact on congestion control and
network eﬃciency, since TCP does not share congestion control across multiple connections.

[HTTP/2]

) introduced a binary framing and multiplexing layer to improve latency

HTTP/2 (
without modifying the transport layer. However, because the parallel nature of HTTP/2's
multiplexing is not visible to TCP's loss recovery mechanisms, a lost or reordered packet causes
all active transactions to experience a stall regardless of whether that transaction was directly
impacted by the lost packet.

1.2.  Delegation to QUIC

The QUIC transport protocol incorporates stream multiplexing and per-stream ﬂow control,
similar to that provided by the HTTP/2 framing layer. By providing reliability at the stream level
and congestion control across the entire connection, QUIC has the capability to improve the
performance of HTTP compared to a TCP mapping. QUIC also incorporates TLS 1.3 (
) at the
transport layer, oﬀering comparable conﬁdentiality and integrity to running TLS over TCP, with
the improved connection setup latency of TCP Fast Open (

[TFO]

[TLS]

).

This document deﬁnes HTTP/3: a mapping of HTTP semantics over the QUIC transport protocol,
drawing heavily on the design of HTTP/2. HTTP/3 relies on QUIC to provide conﬁdentiality and
integrity protection of data; peer authentication; and reliable, in-order, per-stream delivery.
While delegating stream lifetime and ﬂow-control issues to QUIC, a binary framing similar to the
HTTP/2 framing is used on each stream. Some HTTP/2 features are subsumed by QUIC, while other
features are implemented atop QUIC.

QUIC is described in

[QUIC-TRANSPORT]

. For a full description of HTTP/2, see

[HTTP/2]

.

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

2.  HTTP/3 Protocol Overview

HTTP/3 provides a transport for HTTP semantics using the QUIC transport protocol and an
internal framing layer similar to HTTP/2.

Once a client knows that an HTTP/3 server exists at a certain endpoint, it opens a QUIC
connection. QUIC provides protocol negotiation, stream-based multiplexing, and ﬂow control.
Discovery of an HTTP/3 endpoint is described in Section 3.1.

Within each stream, the basic unit of HTTP/3 communication is a frame (Section 7.2). Each frame
type serves a diﬀerent purpose. For example, HEADERS and DATA frames form the basis of HTTP
requests and responses (Section 4.1). Frames that apply to the entire connection are conveyed on
a dedicated control stream.

Multiplexing of requests is performed using the QUIC stream abstraction, which is described in
Section 2 of [QUIC-TRANSPORT]
Streams are independent of each other, so one stream that is blocked or suﬀers packet loss does
not prevent progress on other streams.

. Each request-response pair consumes a single QUIC stream.

Server push is an interaction mode introduced in HTTP/2 (
) that permits a server to push
a request-response exchange to a client in anticipation of the client making the indicated request.
This trades oﬀ network usage against a potential latency gain. Several HTTP/3 frames are used to
manage server push, such as PUSH_PROMISE, MAX_PUSH_ID, and CANCEL_PUSH.

[HTTP/2]

) relies on in-order transmission of compressed ﬁeld sections (a guarantee not provided

As in HTTP/2, request and response ﬁelds are compressed for transmission. Because HPACK
[HPACK]
(
by QUIC), HTTP/3 replaces HPACK with QPACK (
streams to modify and track ﬁeld table state, while encoded ﬁeld sections refer to the state of the
table without modifying it.

). QPACK uses separate unidirectional

[QPACK]

2.1.  Document Organization

The following sections provide a detailed overview of the lifecycle of an HTTP/3 connection:

•

"Connection Setup and Management" (Section 3) covers how an HTTP/3 endpoint is
discovered and an HTTP/3 connection is established.

•

"Expressing HTTP Semantics in HTTP/3" (Section 4) describes how HTTP semantics are
expressed using frames.

•

"Connection Closure" (Section 5) describes how HTTP/3 connections are terminated, either
gracefully or abruptly.

The details of the wire protocol and interactions with the transport are described in subsequent
sections:

•

"Stream Mapping and Usage" (Section 6) describes the way QUIC streams are used.

•

"HTTP Framing Layer" (Section 7) describes the frames used on most streams.

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

•

"Error Handling" (Section 8) describes how error conditions are handled and expressed,
either on a particular stream or for the connection as a whole.

Additional resources are provided in the ﬁnal sections:

•

"Extensions to HTTP/3" (Section 9) describes how new capabilities can be added in future
documents.

•

A more detailed comparison between HTTP/2 and HTTP/3 can be found in Appendix A.

2.2.  Conventions and Terminology

The key words "
", "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
", "
"
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

This document uses the variable-length integer encoding from

[QUIC-TRANSPORT]

.

The following terms are used:

abort:

An abrupt termination of a connection or stream, possibly due to an error condition.

client:

The endpoint that initiates an HTTP/3 connection. Clients send HTTP requests and

receive HTTP responses.

connection:
protocol.

A transport-layer connection between two endpoints using QUIC as the transport

connection error:

An error that aﬀects the entire HTTP/3 connection.

endpoint:

Either the client or server of the connection.

frame:

The smallest unit of communication on a stream in HTTP/3, consisting of a header and a

variable-length sequence of bytes structured according to the frame type.

Protocol elements called "frames" exist in both this document and
frames from
For example, "QUIC CONNECTION_CLOSE frames". References without this preface refer to
frames deﬁned in Section 7.2.

. Where
 are referenced, the frame name will be prefaced with "QUIC".

[QUIC-TRANSPORT]

[QUIC-TRANSPORT]

HTTP/3 connection:

A QUIC connection where the negotiated application protocol is HTTP/3.

peer:

An endpoint. When discussing a particular endpoint, "peer" refers to the endpoint that is

remote to the primary subject of discussion.

receiver:

An endpoint that is receiving frames.

sender:

An endpoint that is transmitting frames.

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

server:

The endpoint that accepts an HTTP/3 connection. Servers receive HTTP requests and

send HTTP responses.

stream:

A bidirectional or unidirectional bytestream provided by the QUIC transport. All
streams within an HTTP/3 connection can be considered "HTTP/3 streams", but multiple
stream types are deﬁned within HTTP/3.

stream error:

An application-level error on the individual stream.

The term "content" is deﬁned in

Section 6.4 of [HTTP]

.

Finally, the terms "resource", "message", "user agent", "origin server", "gateway", "intermediary",
"proxy", and "tunnel" are deﬁned in

Section 3 of [HTTP]

.

Packet diagrams in this document use the format deﬁned in
illustrate the order and size of ﬁelds.

Section 1.3 of [QUIC-TRANSPORT]

 to

3.  Connection Setup and Management

3.1.  Discovering an HTTP/3 Endpoint

HTTP relies on the notion of an authoritative response: a response that has been determined to
be the most appropriate response for that request given the state of the target resource at the time
of response message origination by (or at the direction of) the origin server identiﬁed within the
target URI. Locating an authoritative server for an HTTP URI is discussed in
Section 4.3 of [HTTP]

.

The "https" scheme associates authority with possession of a certiﬁcate that the client considers
to be trustworthy for the host identiﬁed by the authority component of the URI. Upon receiving a
server certiﬁcate in the TLS handshake, the client
 verify that the certiﬁcate is an acceptable
match for the URI's origin server using the process described in
certiﬁcate cannot be veriﬁed with respect to the URI's origin server, the client
the server authoritative for that origin.

Section 4.3.4 of [HTTP]

 consider

MUST NOT

. If the

MUST

MAY

 attempt access to a resource with an "https" URI by resolving the host identiﬁer to an

A client
IP address, establishing a QUIC connection to that address on the indicated port (including
validation of the server certiﬁcate as described above), and sending an HTTP/3 request message
targeting the URI to the server over that secured connection. Unless some other mechanism is
used to select HTTP/3, the token "h3" is used in the Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation (ALPN;
see

) extension during the TLS handshake.

[RFC7301]

Connectivity problems (e.g., blocking UDP) can result in a failure to establish a QUIC connection;
clients

 attempt to use TCP-based versions of HTTP in this case.

SHOULD

MAY

 serve HTTP/3 on any UDP port; an alternative service advertisement always includes

Servers
an explicit port, and URIs contain either an explicit port or a default port associated with the
scheme.

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

3.1.1.  HTTP Alternative Services

An HTTP origin can advertise the availability of an equivalent HTTP/3 endpoint via the Alt-Svc
) using the "h3" ALPN token.
HTTP response header ﬁeld or the HTTP/2 ALTSVC frame (

[ALTSVC]

For example, an origin could indicate in an HTTP response that HTTP/3 was available on UDP
port 50781 at the same hostname by including the following header ﬁeld:

Alt-Svc: h3=":50781"

 attempt to establish a
On receipt of an Alt-Svc record indicating HTTP/3 support, a client
QUIC connection to the indicated host and port; if this connection is successful, the client can
send HTTP requests using the mapping described in this document.

MAY

3.1.2.  Other Schemes

Although HTTP is independent of the transport protocol, the "http" scheme associates authority
with the ability to receive TCP connections on the indicated port of whatever host is identiﬁed
within the authority component. Because HTTP/3 does not use TCP, HTTP/3 cannot be used for
direct access to the authoritative server for a resource identiﬁed by an "http" URI. However,
protocol extensions such as
that are also authoritative and that might be reachable over HTTP/3.

 permit the authoritative server to identify other services

[ALTSVC]

Prior to making requests for an origin whose scheme is not "https", the client
server is willing to serve that scheme. For origins whose scheme is "http", an experimental method
to accomplish this is described in
schemes in the future.

. Other mechanisms might be deﬁned for various

 ensure the

[RFC8164]

MUST

3.2.  Connection Establishment

HTTP/3 relies on QUIC version 1 as the underlying transport. The use of other QUIC transport
versions with HTTP/3

 be deﬁned by future speciﬁcations.

MAY

QUIC version 1 uses TLS version 1.3 or greater as its handshake protocol. HTTP/3 clients
MUST
support a mechanism to indicate the target host to the server during the TLS handshake. If the
server is identiﬁed by a domain name (
[DNS-TERMS]
Indication (SNI;
host is used.

) TLS extension unless an alternative mechanism to indicate the target

 send the Server Name

[RFC6066]

), clients

MUST

QUIC connections are established as described in
establishment, HTTP/3 support is indicated by selecting the ALPN token "h3" in the TLS
handshake. Support for other application-layer protocols

[QUIC-TRANSPORT]

. During connection

 be oﬀered in the same handshake.

MAY

While connection-level options pertaining to the core QUIC protocol are set in the initial crypto
handshake, settings speciﬁc to HTTP/3 are conveyed in the SETTINGS frame. After the QUIC
connection is established, a SETTINGS frame
of their respective HTTP control stream.

 be sent by each endpoint as the initial frame

MUST

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

3.3.  Connection Reuse

HTTP/3 connections are persistent across multiple requests. For best performance, it is expected
that clients will not close connections until it is determined that no further communication with
a server is necessary (for example, when a user navigates away from a particular web page) or
until the server closes the connection.

Once a connection to a server endpoint exists, this connection
multiple diﬀerent URI authority components. To use an existing connection for a new origin,
clients
MUST
process described in
. This implies that clients will need to retain the server
certiﬁcate and any additional information needed to verify that certiﬁcate; clients that do not do
so will be unable to reuse the connection for additional origins.

 validate the certiﬁcate presented by the server for the new origin server using the

 be reused for requests with

Section 4.3.4 of [HTTP]

MAY

 be reused and a new connection

If the certiﬁcate is not acceptable with regard to the new origin for any reason, the connection
SHOULD
MUST NOT
reason the certiﬁcate cannot be veriﬁed might apply to other origins already associated with the
connection, the client
 revalidate the server certiﬁcate for those origins. For instance, if
validation of a certiﬁcate fails because the certiﬁcate has expired or been revoked, this might be
used to invalidate all other origins for which that certiﬁcate was used to establish authority.

 be established for the new origin. If the

SHOULD

SHOULD NOT

 open more than one HTTP/3 connection to a given IP address and UDP port,

Clients
where the IP address and port might be derived from a URI, a selected alternative service
(
[ALTSVC]
HTTP/3 connections to the same IP address and UDP port using diﬀerent transport or TLS
conﬁgurations but

), a conﬁgured proxy, or name resolution of any of these. A client

 avoid creating multiple connections with the same conﬁguration.

 open multiple

SHOULD

MAY

Servers are encouraged to maintain open HTTP/3 connections for as long as possible but are
permitted to terminate idle connections if necessary. When either endpoint chooses to close the
HTTP/3 connection, the terminating endpoint
 ﬁrst send a GOAWAY frame (Section 5.2) so
that both endpoints can reliably determine whether previously sent frames have been processed
and gracefully complete or terminate any necessary remaining tasks.

SHOULD

A server that does not wish clients to reuse HTTP/3 connections for a particular origin can
indicate that it is not authoritative for a request by sending a 421 (Misdirected Request) status
code in response to the request; see
Section 7.4 of [HTTP]

.

4.  Expressing HTTP Semantics in HTTP/3

4.1.  HTTP Message Framing

A client sends an HTTP request on a request stream, which is a client-initiated bidirectional QUIC
stream; see Section 6.1. A client
 send only a single request on a given stream. A server sends
zero or more interim HTTP responses on the same stream as the request, followed by a single
ﬁnal HTTP response, as detailed below. See
ﬁnal HTTP responses.

 for a description of interim and

Section 15 of [HTTP]

MUST

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

Pushed responses are sent on a server-initiated unidirectional QUIC stream; see Section 6.2.2. A
server sends zero or more interim HTTP responses, followed by a single ﬁnal HTTP response, in
the same manner as a standard response. Push is described in more detail in Section 4.6.

On a given stream, receipt of multiple requests or receipt of an additional HTTP response
following a ﬁnal HTTP response

 be treated as malformed.

MUST

An HTTP message (request or response) consists of:

1.

the header section, including message control data, sent as a single HEADERS frame,

2.

optionally, the content, if present, sent as a series of DATA frames, and

3.

optionally, the trailer section, if present, sent as a single HEADERS frame.

Header and trailer sections are described in Sections 6.3 and 6.5 of
.
described in

Section 6.4 of [HTTP]

[HTTP]

; the content is

 be treated as a connection error of type
Receipt of an invalid sequence of frames
MUST
H3_FRAME_UNEXPECTED. In particular, a DATA frame before any HEADERS frame, or a
HEADERS or DATA frame after the trailing HEADERS frame, is considered invalid. Other frame
types, especially unknown frame types, might be permitted subject to their own rules; see Section
9.

MAY

 send one or more PUSH_PROMISE frames before, after, or interleaved with the

A server
frames of a response message. These PUSH_PROMISE frames are not part of the response; see
Section 4.6 for more details. PUSH_PROMISE frames are not permitted on push streams; a pushed
response that includes PUSH_PROMISE frames
H3_FRAME_UNEXPECTED.

 be treated as a connection error of type

MUST

Frames of unknown types (Section 9), including reserved frames (Section 7.2.8)
request or push stream before, after, or interleaved with other frames described in this section.

 be sent on a

MAY

The HEADERS and PUSH_PROMISE frames might reference updates to the QPACK dynamic table.
While these updates are not directly part of the message exchange, they must be received and
processed before the message can be consumed. See Section 4.2 for more details.

Transfer codings (see
header ﬁeld
MUST NOT

Section 7 of [HTTP/1.1]
 be used.

) are not deﬁned for HTTP/3; the Transfer-Encoding

MAY

A response
Section 15.2 of [HTTP]
(1xx; see
do not contain content or trailer sections.

 consist of multiple messages when and only when one or more interim responses

) precede a ﬁnal response to the same request. Interim responses

An HTTP request/response exchange fully consumes a client-initiated bidirectional QUIC stream.
After sending a request, a client
method (see Section 4.4), clients
response to their request. After sending a ﬁnal response, the server
sending. At this point, the QUIC stream is fully closed.

 close the stream for sending. Unless using the CONNECT
 make stream closure dependent on receiving a

 close the stream for

MUST NOT

MUST

MUST

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

When a stream is closed, this indicates the end of the ﬁnal HTTP message. Because some
messages are large or unbounded, endpoints
once enough of the message has been received to make progress. If a client-initiated stream
terminates without enough of the HTTP message to provide a complete response, the server
 abort its response stream with the error code H3_REQUEST_INCOMPLETE.
SHOULD

 begin processing partial HTTP messages

SHOULD

A server can send a complete response prior to the client sending an entire request if the response
does not depend on any portion of the request that has not been sent and received. When the
 abort reading the request
server does not need to receive the remainder of the request, it
stream, send a complete response, and cleanly close the sending part of the stream. The error
code H3_NO_ERROR
stream. Clients
terminated abruptly, though clients can always discard responses at their discretion for other
reasons. If the server sends a partial or complete response but does not abort reading the request,
clients

 continue sending the content of the request and close the stream normally.

 be used when requesting that the client stop sending on the request

 discard complete responses as a result of having their request

MUST NOT

SHOULD

SHOULD

MAY

4.1.1.  Request Cancellation and Rejection

Once a request stream has been opened, the request
 be cancelled by either endpoint. Clients
cancel requests if the response is no longer of interest; servers cancel requests if they are unable
to or choose not to respond. When possible, it is
response with an appropriate status code rather than cancelling a request it has already begun
processing.

 that servers send an HTTP

RECOMMENDED

MAY

Implementations
 cancel requests by abruptly terminating any directions of a stream
that are still open. To do so, an implementation resets the sending parts of streams and aborts
reading on the receiving parts of streams; see

Section 2.4 of [QUIC-TRANSPORT]

SHOULD

.

When the server cancels a request without performing any application processing, the request is
considered "rejected". The server
H3_REQUEST_REJECTED. In this context, "processed" means that some data from the stream was
passed to some higher layer of software that might have taken some action as a result. The client
can treat requests rejected by the server as though they had never been sent at all, thereby
allowing them to be retried later.

 abort its response stream with the error code

SHOULD

MUST NOT

Servers
fully processed. When a server abandons a response after partial processing, it
response stream with the error code H3_REQUEST_CANCELLED.

 use the H3_REQUEST_REJECTED error code for requests that were partially or
 abort its

SHOULD

SHOULD

 use the error code H3_REQUEST_CANCELLED to cancel requests. Upon receipt of
 abruptly terminate the response using the error code
 use the

Client
this error code, a server
H3_REQUEST_REJECTED if no processing was performed. Clients
H3_REQUEST_REJECTED error code, except when a server has requested closure of the request
stream with this error code.

MUST NOT

MAY

If a stream is cancelled after receiving a complete response, the client
cancellation and use the response. However, if a stream is cancelled after receiving a partial
response, the response

 be used. Only idempotent actions such as GET, PUT, or

SHOULD NOT

 ignore the

MAY

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

DELETE can be safely retried; a client
idempotent method unless it has some means to know that the request semantics are idempotent
independent of the method or some means to detect that the original request was never applied.
See

 automatically retry a request with a non-

Section 9.2.2 of [HTTP]

 for more details.

SHOULD NOT

4.1.2.  Malformed Requests and Responses

A malformed request or response is one that is an otherwise valid sequence of frames but is
invalid due to:

•

the presence of prohibited ﬁelds or pseudo-header ﬁelds,

•

the absence of mandatory pseudo-header ﬁelds,

•

invalid values for pseudo-header ﬁelds,

•

pseudo-header ﬁelds after ﬁelds,

•

an invalid sequence of HTTP messages,

•

the inclusion of uppercase ﬁeld names, or

•

the inclusion of invalid characters in ﬁeld names or values.

Section 8.6 of [HTTP]

A request or response that is deﬁned as having content when it contains a Content-Length header
) is malformed if the value of the Content-Length header ﬁeld does not
ﬁeld (
equal the sum of the DATA frame lengths received. A response that is deﬁned as never having
content, even when a Content-Length is present, can have a non-zero Content-Length header
ﬁeld even though no content is included in DATA frames.

Intermediaries that process HTTP requests or responses (i.e., any intermediary not acting as a
tunnel)
MUST NOT
that are detected

 forward a malformed request or response. Malformed requests or responses
MUST

 be treated as a stream error of type H3_MESSAGE_ERROR.

MAY

For malformed requests, a server
or resetting the stream. Clients
requirements are intended to protect against several types of common attacks against HTTP;
they are deliberately strict because being permissive can expose implementations to these
vulnerabilities.

 accept a malformed response. Note that these

 send an HTTP response indicating the error prior to closing

MUST NOT

4.2.  HTTP Fields

[HTTP]

HTTP messages carry metadata as a series of key-value pairs called "HTTP ﬁelds"; see Sections 6.3
and 6.5 of
. Like
(HTTP) Field Name Registry" maintained at
HTTP/2, HTTP/3 has additional considerations related to the use of characters in ﬁeld names, the
Connection header ﬁeld, and pseudo-header ﬁelds.

. For a listing of registered HTTP ﬁelds, see the "Hypertext Transfer Protocol
<https://www.iana.org/assignments/http-ﬁelds/>

Field names are strings containing a subset of ASCII characters. Properties of HTTP ﬁeld names
and values are discussed in more detail in
MUST
be converted to lowercase prior to their encoding. A request or response containing uppercase
characters in ﬁeld names

. Characters in ﬁeld names

 be treated as malformed.

Section 5.1 of [HTTP]

MUST

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

HTTP/3 does not use the Connection header ﬁeld to indicate connection-speciﬁc ﬁelds; in this
protocol, connection-speciﬁc metadata is conveyed by other means. An endpoint
MUST NOT
generate an HTTP/3 ﬁeld section containing connection-speciﬁc ﬁelds; any message containing
connection-speciﬁc ﬁelds

 be treated as malformed.

MUST

The only exception to this is the TE header ﬁeld, which
header; when it is, it

MUST NOT

 contain any value other than "trailers".

MAY

 be present in an HTTP/3 request

An intermediary transforming an HTTP/1.x message to HTTP/3
header ﬁelds as discussed in
HTTP/3 endpoints as malformed.

Section 7.6.1 of [HTTP]

MUST

 remove connection-speciﬁc

, or their messages will be treated by other

4.2.1.  Field Compression

 describes a variation of HPACK that gives an encoder some control over how much head-

[QPACK]
of-line blocking can be caused by compression. This allows an encoder to balance compression
eﬃciency with latency. HTTP/3 uses QPACK to compress header and trailer sections, including the
control data present in the header section.

To allow for better compression eﬃciency, the Cookie header ﬁeld (
 be split into
separate ﬁeld lines, each with one or more cookie-pairs, before compression. If a decompressed
ﬁeld section contains multiple cookie ﬁeld lines, these
 be concatenated into a single byte
string using the two-byte delimiter of "; " (ASCII 0x3b, 0x20) before being passed into a context
other than HTTP/2 or HTTP/3, such as an HTTP/1.1 connection, or a generic HTTP server
application.

[COOKIES] MAY

MUST

)

4.2.2.  Header Size Constraints

MAY

 impose a limit on the maximum size of the message header it

An HTTP/3 implementation
will accept on an individual HTTP message. A server that receives a larger header section than it
is willing to handle can send an HTTP 431 (Request Header Fields Too Large) status code
(
). A client can discard responses that it cannot process. The size of a ﬁeld list is
[RFC6585]
calculated based on the uncompressed size of ﬁelds, including the length of the name and value
in bytes plus an overhead of 32 bytes for each ﬁeld.

If an implementation wishes to advise its peer of this limit, it can be conveyed as a number of
bytes in the SETTINGS_MAX_FIELD_SECTION_SIZE parameter. An implementation that has
received this parameter
 send an HTTP message header that exceeds the indicated
size, as the peer will likely refuse to process it. However, an HTTP message can traverse one or
. Because this
more intermediaries before reaching the origin server; see
limit is applied separately by each implementation that processes the message, messages below
this limit are not guaranteed to be accepted.

Section 3.7 of [HTTP]

SHOULD NOT

4.3.  HTTP Control Data

Like HTTP/2, HTTP/3 employs a series of pseudo-header ﬁelds, where the ﬁeld name begins with
the : character (ASCII 0x3a). These pseudo-header ﬁelds convey message control data; see
6.2 of [HTTP]

.

Section

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

Pseudo-header ﬁelds are not HTTP ﬁelds. Endpoints
other than those deﬁned in this document. However, an extension could negotiate a modiﬁcation
of this restriction; see Section 9.

 generate pseudo-header ﬁelds

MUST NOT

Pseudo-header ﬁelds are only valid in the context in which they are deﬁned. Pseudo-header ﬁelds
deﬁned for requests
MUST NOT
Endpoints
ﬁelds as malformed.

 appear in requests. Pseudo-header ﬁelds
MUST

 treat a request or response that contains undeﬁned or invalid pseudo-header

 appear in responses; pseudo-header ﬁelds deﬁned for responses

 appear in trailer sections.

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

All pseudo-header ﬁelds
request or response that contains a pseudo-header ﬁeld that appears in a header section after a
regular header ﬁeld

 appear in the header section before regular header ﬁelds. Any

 be treated as malformed.

MUST

MUST

4.3.1.  Request Pseudo-Header Fields

The following pseudo-header ﬁelds are deﬁned for requests:

":method":

Contains the HTTP method (

Section 9 of [HTTP]

)

":scheme":

Contains the scheme portion of the target URI (

Section 3.1 of [URI]

).

The :scheme pseudo-header is not restricted to URIs with scheme "http" and "https". A proxy or
gateway can translate requests for non-HTTP schemes, enabling the use of HTTP to interact
with non-HTTP services.

See Section 3.1.2 for guidance on using a scheme other than "https".

":authority":
MUST NOT

Contains the authority portion of the target URI (

). The authority
 include the deprecated userinfo subcomponent for URIs of scheme "http" or "https".

Section 3.2 of [URI]

To ensure that the HTTP/1.1 request line can be reproduced accurately, this pseudo-header ﬁeld
 be omitted when translating from an HTTP/1.1 request that has a request target in a
MUST
method-speciﬁc form; see
SHOULD
intermediary that converts an HTTP/3 request to HTTP/1.1
not present in a request by copying the value of the :authority pseudo-header ﬁeld.

 use the :authority pseudo-header ﬁeld instead of the Host header ﬁeld. An

. Clients that generate HTTP/3 requests directly

 create a Host ﬁeld if one is

Section 7.1 of [HTTP]

MUST

":path":

Contains the path and query parts of the target URI (the "path-absolute" production and
optionally a ? character (ASCII 0x3f) followed by the "query" production; see Sections 3.3 and
3.4 of

[URI]

.

MUST NOT

This pseudo-header ﬁeld
that do not contain a path component
request that does not include a path component includes the value * (ASCII 0x2a) for the :path
pseudo-header ﬁeld; see

 be empty for "http" or "https" URIs; "http" or "https" URIs
 include a value of / (ASCII 0x2f). An OPTIONS

Section 7.1 of [HTTP]

MUST

.

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

All HTTP/3 requests
header ﬁelds, unless the request is a CONNECT request; see Section 4.4.

 include exactly one value for the :method, :scheme, and :path pseudo-

MUST

If the :scheme pseudo-header ﬁeld identiﬁes a scheme that has a mandatory authority
component (including "http" and "https"), the request
header ﬁeld or a Host header ﬁeld. If these ﬁelds are present, they
ﬁelds are present, they
authority component and none is provided in the request target, the request
the :authority pseudo-header or Host header ﬁelds.

 contain the same value. If the scheme does not have a mandatory
 contain

 contain either an :authority pseudo-

 be empty. If both

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

MUST

MUST

An HTTP request that omits mandatory pseudo-header ﬁelds or contains invalid values for those
pseudo-header ﬁelds is malformed.

HTTP/3 does not deﬁne a way to carry the version identiﬁer that is included in the HTTP/1.1
request line. HTTP/3 requests implicitly have a protocol version of "3.0".

4.3.2.  Response Pseudo-Header Fields

For responses, a single ":status" pseudo-header ﬁeld is deﬁned that carries the HTTP status code;
see
 be included in all responses; otherwise,
the response is malformed (see Section 4.1.2).

. This pseudo-header ﬁeld

Section 15 of [HTTP]

MUST

HTTP/3 does not deﬁne a way to carry the version or reason phrase that is included in an HTTP/
1.1 status line. HTTP/3 responses implicitly have a protocol version of "3.0".

4.4.  The CONNECT Method

The CONNECT method requests that the recipient establish a tunnel to the destination origin
server identiﬁed by the request-target; see
proxies to establish a TLS session with an origin server for the purposes of interacting with "https"
resources.

. It is primarily used with HTTP

Section 9.3.6 of [HTTP]

In HTTP/1.x, CONNECT is used to convert an entire HTTP connection into a tunnel to a remote
host. In HTTP/2 and HTTP/3, the CONNECT method is used to establish a tunnel over a single
stream.

A CONNECT request

MUST

 be constructed as follows:

•

The :method pseudo-header ﬁeld is set to "CONNECT"

•

The :scheme and :path pseudo-header ﬁelds are omitted

•

The :authority pseudo-header ﬁeld contains the host and port to connect to (equivalent to the
authority-form of the request-target of CONNECT requests; see

Section 7.1 of [HTTP]

).

The request stream remains open at the end of the request to carry the data to be transferred. A
CONNECT request that does not conform to these restrictions is malformed.

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

) to the server identiﬁed
A proxy that supports CONNECT establishes a TCP connection (
in the :authority pseudo-header ﬁeld. Once this connection is successfully established, the proxy
sends a HEADERS frame containing a 2xx series status code to the client, as deﬁned in
15.3 of [HTTP]

[RFC0793]

Section

.

All DATA frames on the stream correspond to data sent or received on the TCP connection. The
payload of any DATA frame sent by the client is transmitted by the proxy to the TCP server; data
received from the TCP server is packaged into DATA frames by the proxy. Note that the size and
number of TCP segments is not guaranteed to map predictably to the size and number of HTTP
DATA or QUIC STREAM frames.

Once the CONNECT method has completed, only DATA frames are permitted to be sent on the
stream. Extension frames
Receipt of any other known frame type
H3_FRAME_UNEXPECTED.

 be used if speciﬁcally permitted by the deﬁnition of the extension.

 be treated as a connection error of type

MUST

MAY

The TCP connection can be closed by either peer. When the client ends the request stream (that is,
the receive stream at the proxy enters the "Data Recvd" state), the proxy will set the FIN bit on its
connection to the TCP server. When the proxy receives a packet with the FIN bit set, it will close
the send stream that it sends to the client. TCP connections that remain half closed in a single
direction are not invalid, but are often handled poorly by servers, so clients
SHOULD NOT
stream for sending while they still expect to receive data from the target of the CONNECT.

 close a

A TCP connection error is signaled by abruptly terminating the stream. A proxy treats any error
in the TCP connection, which includes receiving a TCP segment with the RST bit set, as a stream
error of type H3_CONNECT_ERROR.

Correspondingly, if a proxy detects an error with the stream or the QUIC connection, it
the TCP connection. If the proxy detects that the client has reset the stream or aborted reading
from the stream, it
the client, a proxy
that both directions of the stream are cancelled. In all these cases, if the underlying TCP
implementation permits it, the proxy

 close the TCP connection. If the stream is reset or reading is aborted by
 perform the same operation on the other direction in order to ensure

 send a TCP segment with the RST bit set.

SHOULD

SHOULD

MUST

MUST

 close

Since CONNECT creates a tunnel to an arbitrary server, proxies that support CONNECT
restrict its use to a set of known ports or a list of safe request targets; see
for more details.

SHOULD
Section 9.3.6 of [HTTP]

4.5.  HTTP Upgrade

HTTP/3 does not support the HTTP Upgrade mechanism (
(Switching Protocols) informational status code (

Section 15.2.2 of [HTTP]

).

Section 7.8 of [HTTP]

) or the 101

4.6.  Server Push

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

Server push is an interaction mode that permits a server to push a request-response exchange to
a client in anticipation of the client making the indicated request. This trades oﬀ network usage
against a potential latency gain. HTTP/3 server push is similar to what is described in
Section 8.2
of [HTTP/2]

, but it uses diﬀerent mechanisms.

Each server push is assigned a unique push ID by the server. The push ID is used to refer to the
push in various contexts throughout the lifetime of the HTTP/3 connection.

The push ID space begins at zero and ends at a maximum value set by the MAX_PUSH_ID frame.
In particular, a server is not able to push until after the client sends a MAX_PUSH_ID frame. A
client sends MAX_PUSH_ID frames to control the number of pushes that a server can promise. A
server
push stream as a connection error of type H3_ID_ERROR when no MAX_PUSH_ID frame has been
sent or when the stream references a push ID that is greater than the maximum push ID.

 use push IDs sequentially, beginning from zero. A client

 treat receipt of a

SHOULD

MUST

The push ID is used in one or more PUSH_PROMISE frames that carry the control data and header
ﬁelds of the request message. These frames are sent on the request stream that generated the
push. This allows the server push to be associated with a client request. When the same push ID is
promised on multiple request streams, the decompressed request ﬁeld sections
 contain the
same ﬁelds in the same order, and both the name and the value in each ﬁeld

 be identical.

MUST

MUST

The push ID is then included with the push stream that ultimately fulﬁlls those promises. The push
stream identiﬁes the push ID of the promise that it fulﬁlls, then contains a response to the
promised request as described in Section 4.1.

Finally, the push ID can be used in CANCEL_PUSH frames; see Section 7.2.3. Clients use this frame
to indicate they do not wish to receive a promised resource. Servers use this frame to indicate
they will not be fulﬁlling a previous promise.

Not all requests can be pushed. A server

MAY

 push requests that have the following properties:

•

cacheable; see

Section 9.2.3 of [HTTP]

•

safe; see

Section 9.2.1 of [HTTP]

•

does not include request content or a trailer section

MUST

 include a value in the :authority pseudo-header ﬁeld for which the server is

The server
authoritative. If the client has not yet validated the connection for the origin indicated by the
pushed request, it
 perform the same veriﬁcation process it would do before sending a
request for that origin on the connection; see Section 3.3. If this veriﬁcation fails, the client
NOT

 consider the server authoritative for that origin.

MUST

MUST

SHOULD

 send a CANCEL_PUSH frame upon receipt of a PUSH_PROMISE frame carrying a

Clients
request that is not cacheable, is not known to be safe, that indicates the presence of request
content, or for which it does not consider the server authoritative. Any corresponding responses
MUST NOT

 be used or cached.

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

Each pushed response is associated with one or more client requests. The push is associated with
the request stream on which the PUSH_PROMISE frame was received. The same server push can
be associated with additional client requests using a PUSH_PROMISE frame with the same push ID
on multiple request streams. These associations do not aﬀect the operation of the protocol, but
they

 be considered by user agents when deciding how to use pushed resources.

MAY

SHOULD

Ordering of a PUSH_PROMISE frame in relation to certain parts of the response is important. The
server
reference the promised responses. This reduces the chance that a client requests a resource that
will be pushed by the server.

 send PUSH_PROMISE frames prior to sending HEADERS or DATA frames that

Due to reordering, push stream data can arrive before the corresponding PUSH_PROMISE frame.
When a client receives a new push stream with an as-yet-unknown push ID, both the associated
client request and the pushed request header ﬁelds are unknown. The client can buﬀer the stream
data in expectation of the matching PUSH_PROMISE. The client can use stream ﬂow control
Section 4.1 of [QUIC-TRANSPORT]
(
pushed stream. Clients
no corresponding PUSH_PROMISE frame is processed in a reasonable amount of time.

 abort reading and discard data already read from push streams if

) to limit the amount of data a server may commit to the

SHOULD

Push stream data can also arrive after a client has cancelled a push. In this case, the client can
abort reading the stream with an error code of H3_REQUEST_CANCELLED. This asks the server
not to transfer additional data and indicates that it will be discarded upon receipt.

Pushed responses that are cacheable (see
client, if it implements an HTTP cache. Pushed responses are considered successfully validated on
the origin server (e.g., if the "no-cache" cache response directive is present; see
) at the time the pushed response is received.
[HTTP-CACHING]

Section 3 of [HTTP-CACHING]

) can be stored by the

Section 5.2.2.4 of

Pushed responses that are not cacheable
made available to the application separately.

MUST NOT

5.  Connection Closure

 be stored by any HTTP cache. They

MAY

 be

Once established, an HTTP/3 connection can be used for many requests and responses over time
until the connection is closed. Connection closure can happen in any of several diﬀerent ways.

5.1.  Idle Connections

Each QUIC endpoint declares an idle timeout during the handshake. If the QUIC connection
remains idle (no packets received) for longer than this duration, the peer will assume that the
connection has been closed. HTTP/3 implementations will need to open a new HTTP/3 connection
for new requests if the existing connection has been idle for longer than the idle timeout
negotiated during the QUIC handshake, and they
see

 do so if approaching the idle timeout;

Section 10.1 of [QUIC-TRANSPORT]

SHOULD

.

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

. If the client is not expecting a response from the server, allowing an idle

HTTP clients are expected to request that the transport keep connections open while there are
responses outstanding for requests or server pushes, as described in
TRANSPORT]
connection to time out is preferred over expending eﬀort maintaining a connection that might
 maintain connections in anticipation of need rather than incur
not be needed. A gateway
the latency cost of connection establishment to servers. Servers
connections open.

Section 10.1.2 of [QUIC-

 actively keep

SHOULD NOT

MAY

5.2.  Connection Shutdown

Even when a connection is not idle, either endpoint can decide to stop using the connection and
initiate a graceful connection close. Endpoints initiate the graceful shutdown of an HTTP/3
connection by sending a GOAWAY frame. The GOAWAY frame contains an identiﬁer that
indicates to the receiver the range of requests or pushes that were or might be processed in this
connection. The server sends a client-initiated bidirectional stream ID; the client sends a push ID.
Requests or pushes with the indicated identiﬁer or greater are rejected (Section 4.1.1) by the
 be zero if no requests or pushes were processed.
sender of the GOAWAY. This identiﬁer

MAY

The information in the GOAWAY frame enables a client and server to agree on which requests or
pushes were accepted prior to the shutdown of the HTTP/3 connection. Upon sending a GOAWAY
frame, the endpoint
 explicitly cancel (see Sections 4.1.1 and 7.2.3) any requests or pushes
that have identiﬁers greater than or equal to the one indicated, in order to clean up transport
state for the aﬀected streams. The endpoint
arrive.

 continue to do so as more requests or pushes

SHOULD

SHOULD

MUST NOT

Endpoints
of a GOAWAY frame from the peer. Clients
requests.

 initiate new requests or promise new pushes on the connection after receipt

MAY

 establish a new connection to send additional

Some requests or pushes might already be in transit:

•

Upon receipt of a GOAWAY frame, if the client has already sent requests with a stream ID
greater than or equal to the identiﬁer contained in the GOAWAY frame, those requests will not
be processed. Clients can safely retry unprocessed requests on a diﬀerent HTTP connection. A
client that is unable to retry requests loses all requests that are in ﬂight when the server closes
the connection.

Requests on stream IDs less than the stream ID in a GOAWAY frame from the server might
have been processed; their status cannot be known until a response is received, the stream is
reset individually, another GOAWAY is received with a lower stream ID than that of the
request in question, or the connection terminates.

Servers
MAY
were not processed.

 reject individual requests on streams below the indicated ID if these requests

•

If a server receives a GOAWAY frame after having promised pushes with a push ID greater
than or equal to the identiﬁer contained in the GOAWAY frame, those pushes will not be
accepted.

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

SHOULD

 send a GOAWAY frame when the closing of a connection is known in advance,
Servers
even if the advance notice is small, so that the remote peer can know whether or not a request
has been partially processed. For example, if an HTTP client sends a POST at the same time that a
server closes a QUIC connection, the client cannot know if the server started to process that POST
request if the server does not send a GOAWAY frame to indicate what streams it might have acted
on.

MAY

MUST NOT

 send multiple GOAWAY frames indicating diﬀerent identiﬁers, but the identiﬁer
 be greater than the identiﬁer in any previous frame, since clients might

An endpoint
in each frame
already have retried unprocessed requests on another HTTP connection. Receiving a GOAWAY
containing a larger identiﬁer than previously received
type H3_ID_ERROR.

 be treated as a connection error of

MUST

An endpoint that is attempting to gracefully shut down a connection can send a GOAWAY frame
with a value set to the maximum possible value (262-4 for servers, 262-1 for clients). This ensures
that the peer stops creating new requests or pushes. After allowing time for any in-ﬂight requests
or pushes to arrive, the endpoint can send another GOAWAY frame indicating which requests or
pushes it might accept before the end of the connection. This ensures that a connection can be
cleanly shut down without losing requests.

A client has more ﬂexibility in the value it chooses for the Push ID ﬁeld in a GOAWAY that it sends.
A value of 262-1 indicates that the server can continue fulﬁlling pushes that have already been
promised. A smaller value indicates the client will reject pushes with push IDs greater than or
equal to this value. Like the server, the client
MAY
speciﬁed push ID is no greater than any previously sent value.

 send subsequent GOAWAY frames so long as the

Even when a GOAWAY indicates that a given request or push will not be processed or accepted
upon receipt, the underlying transport resources still exist. The endpoint that initiated these
requests can cancel them to clean up transport state.

Once all accepted requests and pushes have been processed, the endpoint can permit the
connection to become idle, or it
 initiate an immediate closure of the connection. An
endpoint that completes a graceful shutdown
closing the connection.

 use the H3_NO_ERROR error code when

SHOULD

MAY

If a client has consumed all available bidirectional stream IDs with requests, the server need not
send a GOAWAY frame, since the client is unable to make further requests.

5.3.  Immediate Application Closure

An HTTP/3 implementation can immediately close the QUIC connection at any time. This results
in sending a QUIC CONNECTION_CLOSE frame to the peer indicating that the application layer
has terminated the connection. The application error code in this frame indicates to the peer why
the connection is being closed. See Section 8 for error codes that can be used when closing a
connection in HTTP/3.

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

Before closing the connection, a GOAWAY frame
requests. Including the GOAWAY frame in the same packet as the QUIC CONNECTION_CLOSE
frame improves the chances of the frame being received by clients.

 be sent to allow the client to retry some

MAY

If there are open streams that have not been explicitly closed, they are implicitly closed when the
connection is closed; see

Section 10.2 of [QUIC-TRANSPORT]

.

5.4.  Transport Closure

For various reasons, the QUIC transport could indicate to the application layer that the
connection has terminated. This might be due to an explicit closure by the peer, a transport-level
error, or a change in network topology that interrupts connectivity.

If a connection terminates without a GOAWAY frame, clients
was sent, whether in whole or in part, might have been processed.

MUST

 assume that any request that

6.  Stream Mapping and Usage

A QUIC stream provides reliable in-order delivery of bytes, but makes no guarantees about order
of delivery with regard to bytes on other streams. In version 1 of QUIC, the stream data
containing HTTP frames is carried by QUIC STREAM frames, but this framing is invisible to the
HTTP framing layer. The transport layer buﬀers and orders received stream data, exposing a
reliable byte stream to the application. Although QUIC permits out-of-order delivery within a
stream, HTTP/3 does not make use of this feature.

QUIC streams can be either unidirectional, carrying data only from initiator to receiver, or
bidirectional, carrying data in both directions. Streams can be initiated by either the client or the
server. For more detail on QUIC streams, see

Section 2 of [QUIC-TRANSPORT]

.

When HTTP ﬁelds and data are sent over QUIC, the QUIC layer handles most of the stream
management. HTTP does not need to do any separate multiplexing when using QUIC: data sent
over a QUIC stream always maps to a particular HTTP transaction or to the entire HTTP/3
connection context.

6.1.  Bidirectional Streams

All client-initiated bidirectional streams are used for HTTP requests and responses. A
bidirectional stream ensures that the response can be readily correlated with the request. These
streams are referred to as request streams.

This means that the client's ﬁrst request occurs on QUIC stream 0, with subsequent requests on
streams 4, 8, and so on. In order to permit these streams to open, an HTTP/3 server
conﬁgure non-zero minimum values for the number of permitted streams and the initial stream
ﬂow-control window. So as to not unnecessarily limit parallelism, at least 100 request streams
SHOULD

 be permitted at a time.

SHOULD

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

HTTP/3 does not use server-initiated bidirectional streams, though an extension could deﬁne a
use for these streams. Clients
 treat receipt of a server-initiated bidirectional stream as a
connection error of type H3_STREAM_CREATION_ERROR unless such an extension has been
negotiated.

MUST

6.2.  Unidirectional Streams

Unidirectional streams, in either direction, are used for a range of purposes. The purpose is
indicated by a stream type, which is sent as a variable-length integer at the start of the stream.
The format and structure of data that follows this integer is determined by the stream type.

Unidirectional Stream Header {
  Stream Type (i),
}

Figure 1: Unidirectional Stream Header

Two stream types are deﬁned in this document: control streams (Section 6.2.1) and push streams
(Section 6.2.2).
by extensions to HTTP/3; see Section 9 for more details. Some stream types are reserved (Section
6.2.3).

 deﬁnes two additional stream types. Other stream types can be deﬁned

[QPACK]

The performance of HTTP/3 connections in the early phase of their lifetime is sensitive to the
creation and exchange of data on unidirectional streams. Endpoints that excessively restrict the
number of streams or the ﬂow-control window of these streams will increase the chance that the
remote peer reaches the limit early and becomes blocked. In particular, implementations should
consider that remote peers may wish to exercise reserved stream behavior (Section 6.2.3) with
some of the unidirectional streams they are permitted to use.

Each endpoint needs to create at least one unidirectional stream for the HTTP control stream.
QPACK requires two additional unidirectional streams, and other extensions might require
further streams. Therefore, the transport parameters sent by both clients and servers
MUST
the peer to create at least three unidirectional streams. These transport parameters
provide at least 1,024 bytes of ﬂow-control credit to each unidirectional stream.

SHOULD

 allow
 also

Note that an endpoint is not required to grant additional credits to create more unidirectional
streams if its peer consumes all the initial credits before creating the critical unidirectional
streams. Endpoints
required by mandatory extensions (such as the QPACK encoder and decoder streams) ﬁrst, and
then create additional streams as allowed by their peer.

 create the HTTP control stream as well as the unidirectional streams

SHOULD

If the stream header indicates a stream type that is not supported by the recipient, the remainder
of the stream cannot be consumed as the semantics are unknown. Recipients of unknown
stream types
processing. If reading is aborted, the recipient
error code or a reserved error code (Section 8.1). The recipient
stream types to be a connection error of any kind.

 either abort reading of the stream or discard incoming data without further
 use the H3_STREAM_CREATION_ERROR

 consider unknown

MUST NOT

SHOULD

MUST

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

As certain stream types can aﬀect connection state, a recipient
incoming unidirectional streams prior to reading the stream type.

SHOULD NOT

 discard data from

Implementations
However, stream types that could modify the state or semantics of existing protocol components,
including QPACK or other extensions,

 send stream types before knowing whether the peer supports them.

 be sent until the peer is known to support them.

MUST NOT

MAY

A sender can close or reset a unidirectional stream unless otherwise speciﬁed. A receiver
MUST
tolerate unidirectional streams being closed or reset prior to the reception of the unidirectional
stream header.

6.2.1.  Control Streams

A control stream is indicated by a stream type of 0x00. Data on this stream consists of HTTP/3
frames, as deﬁned in Section 7.2.

MUST

MUST

 be treated as a connection error of type H3_MISSING_SETTINGS.

 initiate a single control stream at the beginning of the connection and send its
Each side
SETTINGS frame as the ﬁrst frame on this stream. If the ﬁrst frame of the control stream is any
other frame type, this
Only one control stream per peer is permitted; receipt of a second stream claiming to be a
control stream
The sender
close the control stream. If either control stream is closed at any point, this
connection error of type H3_CLOSED_CRITICAL_STREAM. Connection errors are described in
Section 8.

 be treated as a connection error of type H3_STREAM_CREATION_ERROR.
 close the control stream, and the receiver

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

MUST

MUST

 be treated as a

 request that the sender

Because the contents of the control stream are used to manage the behavior of other streams,
endpoints
 provide enough ﬂow-control credit to keep the peer's control stream from
SHOULD
becoming blocked.

A pair of unidirectional streams is used rather than a single bidirectional stream. This allows
either peer to send data as soon as it is able. Depending on whether 0-RTT is available on the QUIC
connection, either client or server might be able to send stream data ﬁrst.

6.2.2.  Push Streams

Server push is an optional feature introduced in HTTP/2 that allows a server to initiate a response
before a request has been made. See Section 4.6 for more details.

A push stream is indicated by a stream type of 0x01, followed by the push ID of the promise that it
fulﬁlls, encoded as a variable-length integer. The remaining data on this stream consists of HTTP/
3 frames, as deﬁned in Section 7.2, and fulﬁlls a promised server push by zero or more interim
HTTP responses followed by a single ﬁnal HTTP response, as deﬁned in Section 4.1. Server push
and push IDs are described in Section 4.6.

Only servers can push; if a server receives a client-initiated push stream, this
connection error of type H3_STREAM_CREATION_ERROR.

MUST

 be treated as a

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

Push Stream Header {
  Stream Type (i) = 0x01,
  Push ID (i),
}

Figure 2: Push Stream Header

SHOULD NOT

A client
 abort reading on a push stream prior to reading the push stream header, as
this could lead to disagreement between client and server on which push IDs have already been
consumed.

MUST

Each push ID
stream header includes a push ID that was used in another push stream header, the client
treat this as a connection error of type H3_ID_ERROR.

 only be used once in a push stream header. If a client detects that a push

MUST

6.2.3.  Reserved Stream Types

Stream types of the format 0x1f * N + 0x21 for non-negative integer values of N are reserved
to exercise the requirement that unknown types be ignored. These streams have no semantics,
and they can be sent when application-layer padding is desired. They
connections where no data is currently being transferred. Endpoints
streams to have any meaning upon receipt.

 also be sent on

 consider these

MUST NOT

MAY

The payload and length of the stream are selected in any manner the sending implementation
 either terminate the
chooses. When sending a reserved stream type, the implementation
stream cleanly or reset it. When resetting the stream, either the H3_NO_ERROR error code or a
reserved error code (Section 8.1)

 be used.

SHOULD

MAY

7.  HTTP Framing Layer

HTTP frames are carried on QUIC streams, as described in Section 6. HTTP/3 deﬁnes three stream
types: control stream, request stream, and push stream. This section describes HTTP/3 frame
formats and their permitted stream types; see Table 1 for an overview. A comparison between
HTTP/2 and HTTP/3 frames is provided in Appendix A.2.

Control Stream Request Stream Push Stream Section

Frame

DATA

HEADERS

No

No

CANCEL_PUSH

Yes

SETTINGS

Yes (1)

PUSH_PROMISE  No

GOAWAY

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

No

Section 7.2.1

Section 7.2.2

Section 7.2.3

Section 7.2.4

Section 7.2.5

Section 7.2.6

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

Frame

Control Stream Request Stream Push Stream Section

MAX_PUSH_ID

Yes

Reserved

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

Section 7.2.7

Section 7.2.8

Table 1: HTTP/3 Frames and Stream Type Overview

The SETTINGS frame can only occur as the ﬁrst frame of a Control stream; this is indicated in
Table 1 with a (1). Speciﬁc guidance is provided in the relevant section.

Note that, unlike QUIC frames, HTTP/3 frames can span multiple packets.

7.1.  Frame Layout

All frames have the following format:

HTTP/3 Frame Format {
  Type (i),
  Length (i),
  Frame Payload (..),
}

Figure 3: HTTP/3 Frame Format

A frame includes the following ﬁelds:

Type:

A variable-length integer that identiﬁes the frame type.

Length:

A variable-length integer that describes the length in bytes of the Frame Payload.

Frame Payload:

A payload, the semantics of which are determined by the Type ﬁeld.

MUST

 contain exactly the ﬁelds identiﬁed in its description. A frame

Each frame's payload
payload that contains additional bytes after the identiﬁed ﬁelds or a frame payload that
terminates before the end of the identiﬁed ﬁelds
H3_FRAME_ERROR. In particular, redundant length encodings
consistent; see Section 10.8.

 be veriﬁed to be self-

 be treated as a connection error of type

MUST

MUST

 be
When a stream terminates cleanly, if the last frame on the stream was truncated, this
treated as a connection error of type H3_FRAME_ERROR. Streams that terminate abruptly may
be reset at any point in a frame.

MUST

7.2.  Frame Deﬁnitions

7.2.1.  DATA

DATA frames (type=0x00) convey arbitrary, variable-length sequences of bytes associated with
HTTP request or response content.

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

DATA frames
MUST
on a control stream, the recipient
H3_FRAME_UNEXPECTED.

 be associated with an HTTP request or response. If a DATA frame is received

MUST

 respond with a connection error of type

DATA Frame {
  Type (i) = 0x00,
  Length (i),
  Data (..),
}

Figure 4: DATA Frame

7.2.2.  HEADERS

The HEADERS frame (type=0x01) is used to carry an HTTP ﬁeld section that is encoded using
QPACK. See

 for more details.

[QPACK]

HEADERS Frame {
  Type (i) = 0x01,
  Length (i),
  Encoded Field Section (..),
}

Figure 5: HEADERS Frame

HEADERS frames can only be sent on request streams or push streams. If a HEADERS frame is
received on a control stream, the recipient
MUST
H3_FRAME_UNEXPECTED.

 respond with a connection error of type

7.2.3.  CANCEL_PUSH

The CANCEL_PUSH frame (type=0x03) is used to request cancellation of a server push prior to the
push stream being received. The CANCEL_PUSH frame identiﬁes a server push by push ID (see
Section 4.6), encoded as a variable-length integer.

When a client sends a CANCEL_PUSH frame, it is indicating that it does not wish to receive the
 abort sending the resource, but the mechanism to do so
promised resource. The server
depends on the state of the corresponding push stream. If the server has not yet created a push
stream, it does not create one. If the push stream is open, the server
that stream. If the push stream has already ended, the server
stream or

 still abruptly terminate the

 take no action.

 abruptly terminate

SHOULD

SHOULD

MAY

MAY

A server sends a CANCEL_PUSH frame to indicate that it will not be fulﬁlling a promise that was
previously sent. The client cannot expect the corresponding promise to be fulﬁlled, unless it has
already received and processed the promised response. Regardless of whether a push stream has
been opened, a server
 send a CANCEL_PUSH frame when it determines that promise will
not be fulﬁlled. If a stream has already been opened, the server can abort sending on the stream
with an error code of H3_REQUEST_CANCELLED.

SHOULD

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

 send a CANCEL_PUSH frame when it has already received a corresponding push

Sending a CANCEL_PUSH frame has no direct eﬀect on the state of existing push streams. A client
SHOULD NOT
stream. A push stream could arrive after a client has sent a CANCEL_PUSH frame, because a
server might not have processed the CANCEL_PUSH. The client
with an error code of H3_REQUEST_CANCELLED.

 abort reading the stream

SHOULD

A CANCEL_PUSH frame is sent on the control stream. Receiving a CANCEL_PUSH frame on a
stream other than the control stream
H3_FRAME_UNEXPECTED.

 be treated as a connection error of type

MUST

CANCEL_PUSH Frame {
  Type (i) = 0x03,
  Length (i),
  Push ID (i),
}

Figure 6: CANCEL_PUSH Frame

The CANCEL_PUSH frame carries a push ID encoded as a variable-length integer. The Push ID ﬁeld
identiﬁes the server push that is being cancelled; see Section 4.6. If a CANCEL_PUSH frame is
received that references a push ID greater than currently allowed on the connection, this
treated as a connection error of type H3_ID_ERROR.

MUST

 be

If the client receives a CANCEL_PUSH frame, that frame might identify a push ID that has not yet
been mentioned by a PUSH_PROMISE frame due to reordering. If a server receives a
CANCEL_PUSH frame for a push ID that has not yet been mentioned by a PUSH_PROMISE frame,
this

 be treated as a connection error of type H3_ID_ERROR.

MUST

7.2.4.  SETTINGS

The SETTINGS frame (type=0x04) conveys conﬁguration parameters that aﬀect how endpoints
communicate, such as preferences and constraints on peer behavior. Individually, a SETTINGS
parameter can also be referred to as a "setting"; the identiﬁer and value of each setting
parameter can be referred to as a "setting identiﬁer" and a "setting value".

SETTINGS frames always apply to an entire HTTP/3 connection, never a single stream. A
SETTINGS frame
peer, and it
MUST NOT
the control stream, the endpoint
H3_FRAME_UNEXPECTED.

 be sent as the ﬁrst frame of each control stream (see Section 6.2.1) by each
 be sent subsequently. If an endpoint receives a second SETTINGS frame on
 respond with a connection error of type

MUST

MUST

SETTINGS frames
receives a SETTINGS frame on a diﬀerent stream, the endpoint
error of type H3_FRAME_UNEXPECTED.

 be sent on any stream other than the control stream. If an endpoint
 respond with a connection

MUST NOT

MUST

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

SETTINGS parameters are not negotiated; they describe characteristics of the sending peer that
can be used by the receiving peer. However, a negotiation can be implied by the use of SETTINGS:
each peer uses SETTINGS to advertise a set of supported values. The deﬁnition of the setting would
describe how each peer combines the two sets to conclude which choice will be used. SETTINGS
does not provide a mechanism to identify when the choice takes eﬀect.

Diﬀerent values for the same parameter can be advertised by each peer. For example, a client
might be willing to consume a very large response ﬁeld section, while servers are more cautious
about request size.

 treat the presence of duplicate setting identiﬁers as a connection error of type

MUST NOT

 occur more than once in the SETTINGS frame. A receiver

The same setting identiﬁer
MAY
H3_SETTINGS_ERROR.

The payload of a SETTINGS frame consists of zero or more parameters. Each parameter consists
of a setting identiﬁer and a value, both encoded as QUIC variable-length integers.

Setting {
  Identifier (i),
  Value (i),
}

SETTINGS Frame {
  Type (i) = 0x04,
  Length (i),
  Setting (..) ...,
}

Figure 7: SETTINGS Frame

An implementation

MUST

 ignore any parameter with an identiﬁer it does not understand.

7.2.4.1.  Deﬁned SETTINGS Parameters

The following settings are deﬁned in HTTP/3:

SETTINGS_MAX_FIELD_SECTION_SIZE (0x06):

The default value is unlimited. See Section 4.2.2 for

usage.

Setting identiﬁers of the format 0x1f * N + 0x21 for non-negative integer values of N are
reserved to exercise the requirement that unknown identiﬁers be ignored. Such settings have no
deﬁned meaning. Endpoints
Endpoints

 consider such settings to have any meaning upon receipt.

 include at least one such setting in their SETTINGS frame.

MUST NOT

SHOULD

Because the setting has no deﬁned meaning, the value of the setting can be any value the
implementation selects.

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

Setting identiﬁers that were deﬁned in
have also been reserved (Section 11.2.2). These reserved settings
receipt

 be treated as a connection error of type H3_SETTINGS_ERROR.

MUST NOT

[HTTP/2]

MUST

 where there is no corresponding HTTP/3 setting

 be sent, and their

Additional settings can be deﬁned by extensions to HTTP/3; see Section 9 for more details.

7.2.4.2.  Initialization

An HTTP implementation
current understanding of the peer's settings.

MUST NOT

 send frames or requests that would be invalid based on its

All settings begin at an initial value. Each endpoint
messages before the peer's SETTINGS frame has arrived, as packets carrying the settings can be
lost or delayed. When the SETTINGS frame arrives, any settings are changed to their new values.

 use these initial values to send

SHOULD

This removes the need to wait for the SETTINGS frame before sending messages. Endpoints
NOT

MUST
 require any data to be received from the peer prior to sending the SETTINGS frame; settings

MUST

 be sent as soon as the transport is ready to send data.

For servers, the initial value of each client setting is the default value.

For clients using a 1-RTT QUIC connection, the initial value of each server setting is the default
value. 1-RTT keys will always become available prior to the packet containing SETTINGS being
processed by QUIC, even if the server sends SETTINGS immediately. Clients
indeﬁnitely for SETTINGS to arrive before sending requests, but they
datagrams in order to increase the likelihood of processing SETTINGS before sending the ﬁrst
request.

 process received

SHOULD NOT

SHOULD

 wait

When a 0-RTT QUIC connection is being used, the initial value of each server setting is the value
 store the settings the server provided in the HTTP/3
used in the previous session. Clients
connection where resumption information was provided, but they
 opt not to store settings
MAY
in certain cases (e.g., if the session ticket is received before the SETTINGS frame). A client
MUST
comply with stored settings -- or default values if no values are stored -- when attempting 0-RTT.
Once a server has provided new settings, clients

 comply with those values.

SHOULD

MUST

A server can remember the settings that it advertised or store an integrity-protected copy of the
values in the ticket and recover the information when accepting 0-RTT data. A server uses the
HTTP/3 settings values in determining whether to accept 0-RTT data. If the server cannot
determine that the settings remembered by a client are compatible with its current settings, it
MUST NOT
those settings would not violate the server's current settings.

 accept 0-RTT data. Remembered settings are compatible if a client complying with

MAY

 accept 0-RTT and subsequently provide diﬀerent settings in its SETTINGS frame. If 0-

A server
RTT data is accepted by the server, its SETTINGS frame
values that might be violated by the client with its 0-RTT data. The server
that diﬀer from their default values. If a server accepts 0-RTT but then sends settings that are not
compatible with the previously speciﬁed settings, this
type H3_SETTINGS_ERROR. If a server accepts 0-RTT but then sends a SETTINGS frame that omits

 be treated as a connection error of

 reduce any limits or alter any

 include all settings

MUST NOT

MUST

MUST

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

a setting value that the client understands (apart from reserved setting identiﬁers) that was
previously speciﬁed to have a non-default value, this
type H3_SETTINGS_ERROR.

 be treated as a connection error of

MUST

7.2.5.  PUSH_PROMISE

The PUSH_PROMISE frame (type=0x05) is used to carry a promised request header section from
server to client on a request stream.

PUSH_PROMISE Frame {
  Type (i) = 0x05,
  Length (i),
  Push ID (i),
  Encoded Field Section (..),
}

Figure 8: PUSH_PROMISE Frame

The payload consists of:

Push ID:

A variable-length integer that identiﬁes the server push operation. A push ID is used in

push stream headers (Section 4.6) and CANCEL_PUSH frames.

Encoded Field Section:

QPACK-encoded request header ﬁelds for the promised response. See

[QPACK]

 for more details.

A server
MUST NOT
frame (Section 7.2.7). A client
push ID than the client has advertised as a connection error of H3_ID_ERROR.

 use a push ID that is larger than the client has provided in a MAX_PUSH_ID

 treat receipt of a PUSH_PROMISE frame that contains a larger

MUST

MUST

MUST

 use the same push ID in multiple PUSH_PROMISE frames. If so, the decompressed
 contain the same ﬁelds in the same order, and both the name and the
 compare the request header sections
 be exact matches. Clients

A server
MAY
request header sets
value in each ﬁeld
for resources promised multiple times. If a client receives a push ID that has already been
promised and detects a mismatch, it
H3_GENERAL_PROTOCOL_ERROR. If the decompressed ﬁeld sections match exactly, the client
 associate the pushed content with each stream on which a PUSH_PROMISE frame was
SHOULD
received.

 respond with a connection error of type

SHOULD

MUST

Allowing duplicate references to the same push ID is primarily to reduce duplication caused by
concurrent requests. A server
likely to consume server push responses and not retain them for reuse over time. Clients that see
a PUSH_PROMISE frame that uses a push ID that they have already consumed and discarded are
forced to ignore the promise.

 avoid reusing a push ID over a long period. Clients are

SHOULD

If a PUSH_PROMISE frame is received on the control stream, the client
connection error of type H3_FRAME_UNEXPECTED.

MUST

 respond with a

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

MUST NOT

A client
PUSH_PROMISE frame as a connection error of type H3_FRAME_UNEXPECTED.

 send a PUSH_PROMISE frame. A server

 treat the receipt of a

MUST

See Section 4.6 for a description of the overall server push mechanism.

7.2.6.  GOAWAY

The GOAWAY frame (type=0x07) is used to initiate graceful shutdown of an HTTP/3 connection by
either endpoint. GOAWAY allows an endpoint to stop accepting new requests or pushes while still
ﬁnishing processing of previously received requests and pushes. This enables administrative
actions, like server maintenance. GOAWAY by itself does not close a connection.

GOAWAY Frame {
  Type (i) = 0x07,
  Length (i),
  Stream ID/Push ID (i),
}

Figure 9: GOAWAY Frame

The GOAWAY frame is always sent on the control stream. In the server-to-client direction, it
carries a QUIC stream ID for a client-initiated bidirectional stream encoded as a variable-length
integer. A client
 treat receipt of a GOAWAY frame containing a stream ID of any other type
as a connection error of type H3_ID_ERROR.

MUST

In the client-to-server direction, the GOAWAY frame carries a push ID encoded as a variable-
length integer.

The GOAWAY frame applies to the entire connection, not a speciﬁc stream. A client
MUST
GOAWAY frame on a stream other than the control stream as a connection error of type
H3_FRAME_UNEXPECTED.

 treat a

See Section 5.2 for more information on the use of the GOAWAY frame.

7.2.7.  MAX_PUSH_ID

The MAX_PUSH_ID frame (type=0x0d) is used by clients to control the number of server pushes
that the server can initiate. This sets the maximum value for a push ID that the server can use in
PUSH_PROMISE and CANCEL_PUSH frames. Consequently, this also limits the number of push
streams that the server can initiate in addition to the limit maintained by the QUIC transport.

The MAX_PUSH_ID frame is always sent on the control stream. Receipt of a MAX_PUSH_ID frame
on any other stream

 be treated as a connection error of type H3_FRAME_UNEXPECTED.

MUST

A server
MAX_PUSH_ID frame as a connection error of type H3_FRAME_UNEXPECTED.

 send a MAX_PUSH_ID frame. A client

MUST NOT

 treat the receipt of a

MUST

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

The maximum push ID is unset when an HTTP/3 connection is created, meaning that a server
cannot push until it receives a MAX_PUSH_ID frame. A client that wishes to manage the number
of promised server pushes can increase the maximum push ID by sending MAX_PUSH_ID frames
as the server fulﬁlls or cancels server pushes.

MAX_PUSH_ID Frame {
  Type (i) = 0x0d,
  Length (i),
  Push ID (i),
}

Figure 10: MAX_PUSH_ID Frame

The MAX_PUSH_ID frame carries a single variable-length integer that identiﬁes the maximum
value for a push ID that the server can use; see Section 4.6. A MAX_PUSH_ID frame cannot reduce
the maximum push ID; receipt of a MAX_PUSH_ID frame that contains a smaller value than
previously received

 be treated as a connection error of type H3_ID_ERROR.

MUST

7.2.8.  Reserved Frame Types

Frame types of the format 0x1f * N + 0x21 for non-negative integer values of N are reserved to
exercise the requirement that unknown types be ignored (Section 9). These frames have no
semantics, and they
their use for application-layer padding. Endpoints
meaning upon receipt.

 be sent on any stream where frames are allowed to be sent. This enables

 consider these frames to have any

MUST NOT

MAY

The payload and length of the frames are selected in any manner the implementation chooses.

Frame types that were used in HTTP/2 where there is no corresponding HTTP/3 frame have also
been reserved (Section 11.2.1). These frame types
treated as a connection error of type H3_FRAME_UNEXPECTED.

 be sent, and their receipt

MUST NOT

MUST

 be

8.  Error Handling

When a stream cannot be completed successfully, QUIC allows the application to abruptly
terminate (reset) that stream and communicate a reason; see
This is referred to as a "stream error". An HTTP/3 implementation can decide to close a QUIC
stream and communicate the type of error. Wire encodings of error codes are deﬁned in Section
8.1. Stream errors are distinct from HTTP status codes that indicate error conditions. Stream
errors indicate that the sender did not transfer or consume the full request or response, while
HTTP status codes indicate the result of a request that was successfully received.

Section 2.4 of [QUIC-TRANSPORT]

.

If an entire connection needs to be terminated, QUIC similarly provides mechanisms to
Section 5.3 of [QUIC-TRANSPORT]
communicate a reason; see
error". Similar to stream errors, an HTTP/3 implementation can terminate a QUIC connection
and communicate the reason using an error code from Section 8.1.

. This is referred to as a "connection

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 33

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

Although the reasons for closing streams and connections are called "errors", these actions do not
necessarily indicate a problem with the connection or either implementation. For example, a
stream can be reset if the requested resource is no longer needed.

MAY

An endpoint
circumstances, closing the entire connection in response to a condition on a single stream.
Implementations need to consider the impact on outstanding requests before making this choice.

 choose to treat a stream error as a connection error under certain

Because new error codes can be deﬁned without negotiation (see Section 9), use of an error code
in an unexpected context or receipt of an unknown error code
 be treated as equivalent to
H3_NO_ERROR. However, closing a stream can have other eﬀects regardless of the error code; for
example, see Section 4.1.

MUST

8.1.  HTTP/3 Error Codes

The following error codes are deﬁned for use when abruptly terminating streams, aborting
reading of streams, or immediately closing HTTP/3 connections.

H3_NO_ERROR (0x0100):

No error. This is used when the connection or stream needs to be

closed, but there is no error to signal.

H3_GENERAL_PROTOCOL_ERROR (0x0101):

Peer violated protocol requirements in a way that

does not match a more speciﬁc error code or endpoint declines to use the more speciﬁc error
code.

H3_INTERNAL_ERROR (0x0102):

An internal error has occurred in the HTTP stack.

H3_STREAM_CREATION_ERROR (0x0103):

The endpoint detected that its peer created a stream

that it will not accept.

H3_CLOSED_CRITICAL_STREAM (0x0104):

A stream required by the HTTP/3 connection was

closed or reset.

H3_FRAME_UNEXPECTED (0x0105):
state or on the current stream.

A frame was received that was not permitted in the current

H3_FRAME_ERROR (0x0106):

A frame that fails to satisfy layout requirements or with an invalid

size was received.

H3_EXCESSIVE_LOAD (0x0107):

The endpoint detected that its peer is exhibiting a behavior that

might be generating excessive load.

H3_ID_ERROR (0x0108):

A stream ID or push ID was used incorrectly, such as exceeding a limit,

reducing a limit, or being reused.

H3_SETTINGS_ERROR (0x0109):

An endpoint detected an error in the payload of a SETTINGS

frame.

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 34

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

H3_MISSING_SETTINGS (0x010a):

No SETTINGS frame was received at the beginning of the

control stream.

H3_REQUEST_REJECTED (0x010b):

A server rejected a request without performing any

application processing.

H3_REQUEST_CANCELLED (0x010c):

The request or its response (including pushed response) is

cancelled.

H3_REQUEST_INCOMPLETE (0x010d):

The client's stream terminated without containing a fully

formed request.

H3_MESSAGE_ERROR (0x010e):

An HTTP message was malformed and cannot be processed.

H3_CONNECT_ERROR (0x010f):

The TCP connection established in response to a CONNECT

request was reset or abnormally closed.

H3_VERSION_FALLBACK (0x0110):

The requested operation cannot be served over HTTP/3. The

peer should retry over HTTP/1.1.

Error codes of the format 0x1f * N + 0x21 for non-negative integer values of N are reserved to
exercise the requirement that unknown error codes be treated as equivalent to H3_NO_ERROR
(Section 9). Implementations
when they would have sent H3_NO_ERROR.

 select an error code from this space with some probability

SHOULD

9.  Extensions to HTTP/3

HTTP/3 permits extension of the protocol. Within the limitations described in this section,
protocol extensions can be used to provide additional services or alter any aspect of the protocol.
Extensions are eﬀective only within the scope of a single HTTP/3 connection.

This applies to the protocol elements deﬁned in this document. This does not aﬀect the existing
options for extending HTTP, such as deﬁning new methods, status codes, or ﬁelds.

Extensions are permitted to use new frame types (Section 7.2), new settings (Section 7.2.4.1), new
error codes (Section 8), or new unidirectional stream types (Section 6.2). Registries are established
for managing these extension points: frame types (Section 11.2.1), settings (Section 11.2.2), error
codes (Section 11.2.3), and stream types (Section 11.2.4).

MUST

MUST

 discard data or abort reading on unidirectional streams that

 ignore unknown or unsupported values in all extensible protocol

Implementations
elements. Implementations
have unknown or unsupported types. This means that any of these extension points can be safely
used by extensions without prior arrangement or negotiation. However, where a known frame
type is required to be in a speciﬁc location, such as the SETTINGS frame as the ﬁrst frame of the
control stream (see Section 6.2.1), an unknown frame type does not satisfy that requirement and
SHOULD

 be treated as an error.

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 35

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

Extensions that could change the semantics of existing protocol components
before being used. For example, an extension that changes the layout of the HEADERS frame
cannot be used until the peer has given a positive signal that this is acceptable. Coordinating
when such a revised layout comes into eﬀect could prove complex. As such, allocating new
identiﬁers for new deﬁnitions of existing protocol elements is likely to be more eﬀective.

MUST

 be negotiated

This document does not mandate a speciﬁc method for negotiating the use of an extension, but it
notes that a setting (Section 7.2.4.1) could be used for that purpose. If both peers set a value that
indicates willingness to use the extension, then the extension can be used. If a setting is used for
extension negotiation, the default value
 be deﬁned in such a fashion that the extension is
disabled if the setting is omitted.

MUST

10.  Security Considerations

The security considerations of HTTP/3 should be comparable to those of HTTP/2 with TLS.
However, many of the considerations from
and are discussed in that document.

Section 10 of [HTTP/2]

 apply to

[QUIC-TRANSPORT]

10.1.  Server Authority

HTTP/3 relies on the HTTP deﬁnition of authority. The security considerations of establishing
authority are discussed in

Section 17.1 of [HTTP]

.

10.2.  Cross-Protocol Attacks

The use of ALPN in the TLS and QUIC handshakes establishes the target application protocol
before application-layer bytes are processed. This ensures that endpoints have strong assurances
that peers are using the same protocol.

This does not guarantee protection from all cross-protocol attacks.
TRANSPORT]
request forgery against endpoints that don't use authenticated transports.

 describes some ways in which the plaintext of QUIC packets can be used to perform

Section 21.5 of [QUIC-

10.3.  Intermediary-Encapsulation Attacks

The HTTP/3 ﬁeld encoding allows the expression of names that are not valid ﬁeld names in the
syntax used by HTTP (
names
request or response containing an invalid ﬁeld name into an HTTP/1.1 message.

 be treated as malformed. Therefore, an intermediary cannot translate an HTTP/3

). Requests or responses containing invalid ﬁeld

Section 5.1 of [HTTP]

MUST

Similarly, HTTP/3 can transport ﬁeld values that are not valid. While most values that can be
encoded will not alter ﬁeld parsing, carriage return (ASCII 0x0d), line feed (ASCII 0x0a), and the
null character (ASCII 0x00) might be exploited by an attacker if they are translated verbatim. Any
request or response that contains a character not permitted in a ﬁeld value
malformed. Valid characters are deﬁned by the "ﬁeld-content" ABNF rule in

MUST
Section 5.5 of [HTTP]

 be treated as

.

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 36

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

10.4.  Cacheability of Pushed Responses

Pushed responses do not have an explicit request from the client; the request is provided by the
server in the PUSH_PROMISE frame.

Caching responses that are pushed is possible based on the guidance provided by the origin server
in the Cache-Control header ﬁeld. However, this can cause issues if a single server hosts more
than one tenant. For example, a server might oﬀer multiple users each a small portion of its URI
space.

Where multiple tenants share space on the same server, that server
not able to push representations of resources that they do not have authority over. Failure to
enforce this would allow a tenant to provide a representation that would be served out of cache,
overriding the actual representation that the authoritative tenant provides.

 ensure that tenants are

MUST

Clients are required to reject pushed responses for which an origin server is not authoritative; see
Section 4.6.

10.5.  Denial-of-Service Considerations

An HTTP/3 connection can demand a greater commitment of resources to operate than an HTTP/
1.1 or HTTP/2 connection. The use of ﬁeld compression and ﬂow control depend on a
commitment of resources for storing a greater amount of state. Settings for these features ensure
that memory commitments for these features are strictly bounded.

The number of PUSH_PROMISE frames is constrained in a similar fashion. A client that accepts
server push

 limit the number of push IDs it issues at a time.

SHOULD

Processing capacity cannot be guarded as eﬀectively as state capacity.

The ability to send undeﬁned protocol elements that the peer is required to ignore can be abused
to cause a peer to expend additional processing time. This might be done by setting multiple
undeﬁned SETTINGS parameters, unknown frame types, or unknown stream types. Note,
however, that some uses are entirely legitimate, such as optional-to-understand extensions and
padding to increase resistance to traﬃc analysis.

Compression of ﬁeld sections also oﬀers some opportunities to waste processing resources; see
Section 7 of [QPACK]

 for more details on potential abuses.

All these features -- i.e., server push, unknown protocol elements, ﬁeld compression -- have
legitimate uses. These features become a burden only when they are used unnecessarily or to
excess.

An endpoint that does not monitor such behavior exposes itself to a risk of denial-of-service
attack. Implementations
endpoint
MAY
but false positives will result in disrupting valid connections and requests.

 treat activity that is suspicious as a connection error of type H3_EXCESSIVE_LOAD,

 track the use of these features and set limits on their use. An

SHOULD

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 37

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

10.5.1.  Limits on Field Section Size

A large ﬁeld section (Section 4.1) can cause an implementation to commit a large amount of
state. Header ﬁelds that are critical for routing can appear toward the end of a header section,
which prevents streaming of the header section to its ultimate destination. This ordering and
other reasons, such as ensuring cache correctness, mean that an endpoint likely needs to buﬀer
the entire header section. Since there is no hard limit to the size of a ﬁeld section, some endpoints
could be forced to commit a large amount of available memory for header ﬁelds.

MAY

 choose to send ﬁeld sections that exceed this limit and risk having the request or

An endpoint can use the SETTINGS_MAX_FIELD_SECTION_SIZE (Section 4.2.2) setting to advise
peers of limits that might apply on the size of ﬁeld sections. This setting is only advisory, so
endpoints
response being treated as malformed. This setting is speciﬁc to an HTTP/3 connection, so any
request or response could encounter a hop with a lower, unknown limit. An intermediary can
attempt to avoid this problem by passing on values presented by diﬀerent peers, but they are not
obligated to do so.

A server that receives a larger ﬁeld section than it is willing to handle can send an HTTP 431
(Request Header Fields Too Large) status code (
cannot process.

). A client can discard responses that it

[RFC6585]

10.5.2.  CONNECT Issues

The CONNECT method can be used to create disproportionate load on a proxy, since stream
creation is relatively inexpensive when compared to the creation and maintenance of a TCP
connection. Therefore, a proxy that supports CONNECT might be more conservative in the
number of simultaneous requests it accepts.

A proxy might also maintain some resources for a TCP connection beyond the closing of the
stream that carries the CONNECT request, since the outgoing TCP connection remains in the
TIME_WAIT state. To account for this, a proxy might delay increasing the QUIC stream limits for
some time after a TCP connection terminates.

10.6.  Use of Compression

Compression can allow an attacker to recover secret data when it is compressed in the same
context as data under attacker control. HTTP/3 enables compression of ﬁelds (Section 4.2); the
following concerns also apply to the use of HTTP compressed content-codings; see
[HTTP]

.

Section 8.4.1 of

There are demonstrable attacks on compression that exploit the characteristics of the web (e.g.,
). The attacker induces multiple requests containing varying plaintext, observing the
[BREACH]
length of the resulting ciphertext in each, which reveals a shorter length when a guess about the
secret is correct.

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 38

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

Implementations communicating on a secure channel
both conﬁdential and attacker-controlled data unless separate compression contexts are used
for each source of data. Compression
 be used if the source of data cannot be reliably
determined.

 compress content that includes

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

Further considerations regarding the compression of ﬁeld sections are described in

[QPACK]

.

10.7.  Padding and Traﬃc Analysis

Padding can be used to obscure the exact size of frame content and is provided to mitigate
speciﬁc attacks within HTTP, for example, attacks where compressed content includes both
attacker-controlled plaintext and secret data (e.g.,

[BREACH]

).

Where HTTP/2 employs PADDING frames and Padding ﬁelds in other frames to make a
connection more resistant to traﬃc analysis, HTTP/3 can either rely on transport-layer padding
or employ the reserved frame and stream types discussed in Sections 7.2.8 and 6.2.3. These
methods of padding produce diﬀerent results in terms of the granularity of padding, how padding
is arranged in relation to the information that is being protected, whether padding is applied in
the case of packet loss, and how an implementation might control padding.

Reserved stream types can be used to give the appearance of sending traﬃc even when the
connection is idle. Because HTTP traﬃc often occurs in bursts, apparent traﬃc can be used to
obscure the timing or duration of such bursts, even to the point of appearing to send a constant
stream of data. However, as such traﬃc is still ﬂow controlled by the receiver, a failure to
promptly drain such streams and provide additional ﬂow-control credit can limit the sender's
ability to send real traﬃc.

To mitigate attacks that rely on compression, disabling or limiting compression might be
preferable to padding as a countermeasure.

Use of padding can result in less protection than might seem immediately obvious. Redundant
padding could even be counterproductive. At best, padding only makes it more diﬃcult for an
attacker to infer length information by increasing the number of frames an attacker has to
observe. Incorrectly implemented padding schemes can be easily defeated. In particular,
randomized padding with a predictable distribution provides very little protection; similarly,
padding payloads to a ﬁxed size exposes information as payload sizes cross the ﬁxed-sized
boundary, which could be possible if an attacker can control plaintext.

10.8.  Frame Parsing

Several protocol elements contain nested length elements, typically in the form of frames with
an explicit length containing variable-length integers. This could pose a security risk to an
incautious implementer. An implementation
matches the length of the ﬁelds it contains.

 ensure that the length of a frame exactly

MUST

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 39

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

10.9.  Early Data

The use of 0-RTT with HTTP/3 creates an exposure to replay attack. The anti-replay mitigations in
[HTTP-REPLAY] MUST
 to
HTTP/3, references to the TLS layer refer to the handshake performed within QUIC, while all
references to application data refer to the contents of streams.

 be applied when using HTTP/3 with 0-RTT. When applying

[HTTP-REPLAY]

10.10.  Migration

Certain HTTP implementations use the client address for logging or access-control purposes.
Since a QUIC client's address might change during a connection (and future versions might
support simultaneous use of multiple addresses), such implementations will need to either
actively retrieve the client's current address or addresses when they are relevant or explicitly
accept that the original address might change.

10.11.  Privacy Considerations

Several characteristics of HTTP/3 provide an observer an opportunity to correlate actions of a
single client or server over time. These include the value of settings, the timing of reactions to
stimulus, and the handling of any features that are controlled by settings.

As far as these create observable diﬀerences in behavior, they could be used as a basis for
ﬁngerprinting a speciﬁc client.

HTTP/3's preference for using a single QUIC connection allows correlation of a user's activity on a
site. Reusing connections for diﬀerent origins allows for correlation of activity across those
origins.

Several features of QUIC solicit immediate responses and can be used by an endpoint to measure
latency to their peer; this might have privacy implications in certain scenarios.

11.  IANA Considerations

This document registers a new ALPN protocol ID (Section 11.1) and creates new registries that
manage the assignment of code points in HTTP/3.

11.1.  Registration of HTTP/3 Identiﬁcation String

This document creates a new registration for the identiﬁcation of HTTP/3 in the "TLS Application-
Layer Protocol Negotiation (ALPN) Protocol IDs" registry established in

[RFC7301]

.

The "h3" string identiﬁes HTTP/3:

Protocol:

HTTP/3

Identiﬁcation Sequence:

0x68 0x33 ("h3")

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 40

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

Speciﬁcation: This document

11.2.  New Registries

New registries created in this document operate under the QUIC registration policy documented
in
Section 22.1 of [QUIC-TRANSPORT]
Section 22.1.1 of [QUIC-TRANSPORT]
Protocol version 3 (HTTP/3)" heading.

. These registries all include the common set of ﬁelds listed in
. These registries are collected under the "Hypertext Transfer

The initial allocations in these registries are all assigned permanent status and list a change
controller of the IETF and a contact of the HTTP working group (ietf-http-wg@w3.org).

11.2.1.  Frame Types

This document establishes a registry for HTTP/3 frame type codes. The "HTTP/3 Frame Types"
registry governs a 62-bit space. This registry follows the QUIC registry policy; see Section 11.2.
Permanent registrations in this registry are assigned using the Speciﬁcation Required policy
(
), except for values between 0x00 and 0x3f (in hexadecimal; inclusive), which are
[RFC8126]
assigned using Standards Action or IESG Approval as deﬁned in Sections 4.9 and 4.10 of

[RFC8126]

.

While this registry is separate from the "HTTP/2 Frame Type" registry deﬁned in
preferable that the assignments parallel each other where the code spaces overlap. If an entry is
 be made to avoid assigning the corresponding
present in only one registry, every eﬀort
value to an unrelated operation. Expert reviewers
 reject unrelated registrations that would
conﬂict with the same value in the corresponding registry.

[HTTP/2]

SHOULD

, it is

MAY

In addition to common ﬁelds as described in Section 11.2, permanent registrations in this registry
MUST

 include the following ﬁeld:

Frame Type:

A name or label for the frame type.

Speciﬁcations of frame types
MUST
including any parts of the frame that are conditionally present.

 include a description of the frame layout and its semantics,

The entries in Table 2 are registered by this document.

Frame Type

Value

Speciﬁcation

DATA

0x00

Section 7.2.1

HEADERS

0x01

Section 7.2.2

Reserved

0x02

This document

CANCEL_PUSH

0x03

Section 7.2.3

SETTINGS

0x04

Section 7.2.4

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 41

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

Frame Type

Value

Speciﬁcation

PUSH_PROMISE

0x05

Section 7.2.5

Reserved

0x06

This document

GOAWAY

0x07

Section 7.2.6

Reserved

0x08

This document

Reserved

0x09

This document

MAX_PUSH_ID

0x0d

Section 7.2.7

Table 2: Initial HTTP/3 Frame Types

Each code of the format 0x1f * N + 0x21 for non-negative integer values of N (that is, 0x21,
0x40, ..., through 0x3ﬀﬀﬀﬀﬀﬀﬀe)
listing of assigned values.

 be assigned by IANA and

 appear in the

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

11.2.2.  Settings Parameters

This document establishes a registry for HTTP/3 settings. The "HTTP/3 Settings" registry governs a
62-bit space. This registry follows the QUIC registry policy; see Section 11.2. Permanent
registrations in this registry are assigned using the Speciﬁcation Required policy (
except for values between 0x00 and 0x3f (in hexadecimal; inclusive), which are assigned using
Standards Action or IESG Approval as deﬁned in Sections 4.9 and 4.10 of

[RFC8126]

[RFC8126]

),

.

While this registry is separate from the "HTTP/2 Settings" registry deﬁned in
preferable that the assignments parallel each other. If an entry is present in only one registry,
every eﬀort
operation. Expert reviewers
value in the corresponding registry.

 be made to avoid assigning the corresponding value to an unrelated

 reject unrelated registrations that would conﬂict with the same

[HTTP/2]

SHOULD

, it is

MAY

In addition to common ﬁelds as described in Section 11.2, permanent registrations in this registry
MUST

 include the following ﬁelds:

Setting Name:

A symbolic name for the setting. Specifying a setting name is optional.

Default:

The value of the setting unless otherwise indicated. A default

SHOULD

 be the most

restrictive possible value.

The entries in Table 3 are registered by this document.

Setting Name

Value

Speciﬁcation

Default

Reserved

0x00

This document N/A

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 42

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

Setting Name

Value

Speciﬁcation

Default

Reserved

Reserved

Reserved

Reserved

0x02

This document N/A

0x03

This document N/A

0x04

This document N/A

0x05

This document N/A

MAX_FIELD_SECTION_SIZE

0x06

Section 7.2.4.1

Unlimited

Table 3: Initial HTTP/3 Settings

For formatting reasons, setting names can be abbreviated by removing the 'SETTINGS_' preﬁx.

Each code of the format 0x1f * N + 0x21 for non-negative integer values of N (that is, 0x21,
0x40, ..., through 0x3ﬀﬀﬀﬀﬀﬀﬀe)
listing of assigned values.

 be assigned by IANA and

 appear in the

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

11.2.3.  Error Codes

This document establishes a registry for HTTP/3 error codes. The "HTTP/3 Error Codes" registry
manages a 62-bit space. This registry follows the QUIC registry policy; see Section 11.2. Permanent
registrations in this registry are assigned using the Speciﬁcation Required policy (
except for values between 0x00 and 0x3f (in hexadecimal; inclusive), which are assigned using
Standards Action or IESG Approval as deﬁned in Sections 4.9 and 4.10 of

[RFC8126]

[RFC8126]

),

.

Registrations for error codes are required to include a description of the error code. An expert
reviewer is advised to examine new registrations for possible duplication with existing error
codes. Use of existing registrations is to be encouraged, but not mandated. Use of values that are
registered in the "HTTP/2 Error Code" registry is discouraged, and expert reviewers
such registrations.

 reject

MAY

In addition to common ﬁelds as described in Section 11.2, this registry includes two additional
ﬁelds. Permanent registrations in this registry

 include the following ﬁeld:

MUST

Name:

A name for the error code.

Description:

A brief description of the error code semantics.

The entries in Table 4 are registered by this document. These error codes were selected from the
range that operates on a Speciﬁcation Required policy to avoid collisions with HTTP/2 error
codes.

Name

Value

Description

Speciﬁcation

H3_NO_ERROR

0x0100

No error

Section 8.1

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 43

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

Name

Value

Description

Speciﬁcation

H3_GENERAL_PROTOCOL_ERROR  0x0101

General protocol error

Section 8.1

H3_INTERNAL_ERROR

0x0102

Internal error

Section 8.1

H3_STREAM_CREATION_ERROR

0x0103

Stream creation error

Section 8.1

H3_CLOSED_CRITICAL_STREAM

0x0104

Critical stream was closed

Section 8.1

H3_FRAME_UNEXPECTED

0x0105

H3_FRAME_ERROR

0x0106

Frame not permitted in the
current state

Section 8.1

Frame violated layout or size
rules

Section 8.1

H3_EXCESSIVE_LOAD

0x0107

Peer generating excessive
load

H3_ID_ERROR

0x0108

An identiﬁer was used
incorrectly

Section 8.1

Section 8.1

H3_SETTINGS_ERROR

0x0109

SETTINGS frame contained
invalid values

Section 8.1

H3_MISSING_SETTINGS

0x010a

No SETTINGS frame received

Section 8.1

H3_REQUEST_REJECTED

0x010b

Request not processed

Section 8.1

H3_REQUEST_CANCELLED

0x010c

Data no longer needed

Section 8.1

H3_REQUEST_INCOMPLETE

0x010d

Stream terminated early

Section 8.1

H3_MESSAGE_ERROR

0x010e Malformed message

Section 8.1

H3_CONNECT_ERROR

0x010f

TCP reset or error on
CONNECT request

Section 8.1

H3_VERSION_FALLBACK

0x0110

Retry over HTTP/1.1

Section 8.1

Table 4: Initial HTTP/3 Error Codes

Each code of the format 0x1f * N + 0x21 for non-negative integer values of N (that is, 0x21,
0x40, ..., through 0x3ﬀﬀﬀﬀﬀﬀﬀe)
listing of assigned values.

 be assigned by IANA and

 appear in the

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 44

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

11.2.4.  Stream Types

This document establishes a registry for HTTP/3 unidirectional stream types. The "HTTP/3 Stream
Types" registry governs a 62-bit space. This registry follows the QUIC registry policy; see Section
11.2. Permanent registrations in this registry are assigned using the Speciﬁcation Required policy
[RFC8126]
(
assigned using Standards Action or IESG Approval as deﬁned in Sections 4.9 and 4.10 of

), except for values between 0x00 and 0x3f (in hexadecimal; inclusive), which are

[RFC8126]

.

In addition to common ﬁelds as described in Section 11.2, permanent registrations in this registry
MUST

 include the following ﬁelds:

Stream Type:

A name or label for the stream type.

Sender:

Which endpoint on an HTTP/3 connection may initiate a stream of this type. Values are

"Client", "Server", or "Both".

Speciﬁcations for permanent registrations
including the layout and semantics of the stream contents.

MUST

 include a description of the stream type,

The entries in Table 5 are registered by this document.

Stream Type

Value

Speciﬁcation

Sender

Control Stream

0x00

Section 6.2.1

Both

Push Stream

0x01

Section 4.6

Server

Table 5: Initial Stream Types

Each code of the format 0x1f * N + 0x21 for non-negative integer values of N (that is, 0x21,
0x40, ..., through 0x3ﬀﬀﬀﬀﬀﬀﬀe)
listing of assigned values.

 be assigned by IANA and

 appear in the

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

12.  References

12.1.  Normative References

[ALTSVC]

[COOKIES]

[HTTP]

Nottingham, M. McManus, P.
7838 DOI 10.17487/RFC7838

,

,

, and

J. Reschke "HTTP Alternative Services" RFC

,

,

, April 2016,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7838>
.

Barth, A. "HTTP State Management Mechanism" RFC 6265 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6265

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6265>
.

,
, April 2011,

,

,

,

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
97 RFC 9110 DOI 10.17487/RFC9110
rfc9110>
.

,

,

, and
, June 2022,

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP Semantics" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 45

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

[HTTP-CACHING]

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.

,

, and

, June 2022,

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP Caching" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

,

98 RFC 9111 DOI 10.17487/RFC9111
rfc9111>
.

,

[HTTP-REPLAY]

W. Tarreau "Using Early Data in HTTP"
,
,
, and
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/
, September 2018,

Thomson, M. Nottingham, M.
,
RFC 8470 DOI 10.17487/RFC8470
info/rfc8470>
.

,

Krasic, C. Bishop, M.
,
RFC 9204 DOI 10.17487/RFC9204
,
rfc9204>
.

, and

[QPACK]

A. Frindell, Ed. "QPACK: Field Compression for HTTP/3"
,

,

, June 2022,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

[QUIC-TRANSPORT]

Iyengar, J., Ed.

 and

Secure Transport" RFC 9000 DOI 10.17487/RFC9000
.
editor.org/info/rfc9000>

,

,

M. Thomson, Ed. "QUIC: A UDP-Based Multiplexed and
<https://www.rfc-

, May 2021,

,

[RFC0793]

[RFC2119]

[RFC6066]

[RFC7301]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

[URI]

,
,
Postel, J. "Transmission Control Protocol" STD 7 RFC 793 DOI 10.17487/RFC0793
September 1981,

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc793>

,

,

,

,
Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
.
rfc2119>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

Eastlake 3rd, D. "Transport Layer Security (TLS) Extensions: Extension
,
,
Deﬁnitions" RFC 6066 DOI 10.17487/RFC6066
.
editor.org/info/rfc6066>

, January 2011,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Friedl, S. Popov, A. Langley, A.
Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation Extension" RFC 7301 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7301

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7301>

E. Stephan "Transport Layer Security (TLS)

, July 2014,

, and

,

,

,

,
Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

, June

,
,
Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
.
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

, and
Berners-Lee, T. Fielding, R.
,
,
Generic Syntax" STD 66 RFC 3986 DOI 10.17487/RFC3986
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3986>

L. Masinter "Uniform Resource Identiﬁer (URI):
<https://

, January 2005,

,

,

12.2.  Informative References

[BREACH]

A. Prado "BREACH: Reviving the CRIME Attack"

, July

,
Gluck, Y. Harris, N.
2013,
%20gone%20in%2030%20seconds.pdf>
.

, and

,

<http://breachattack.com/resources/BREACH%20-%20SSL,

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 46

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

[DNS-TERMS]

[HPACK]

[HTTP/1.1]

[HTTP/2]

[RFC6585]

[RFC8164]

[TFO]

[TLS]

,
Hoﬀman, P. Sullivan, A.
DOI 10.17487/RFC8499

, and

,
K. Fujiwara "DNS Terminology" BCP 219 RFC 8499
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8499>
.

,

,

,

, January 2019,

 and

Peon, R.
10.17487/RFC7541

,
, May 2015,

H. Ruellan "HPACK: Header Compression for HTTP/2" RFC 7541 DOI

,

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7541>
.

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
9112 DOI 10.17487/RFC9112

, June 2022,

,

,

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP/1.1" STD 99 RFC
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9112>
.

,

,

,

, and

Thomson, M., Ed.
June 2022,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9113>
.

 and

C. Benﬁeld, Ed. "HTTP/2" RFC 9113 DOI 10.17487/RFC9113
,

,

,

,

Nottingham, M.
10.17487/RFC6585

 and

R. Fielding "Additional HTTP Status Codes" RFC 6585 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6585>
.

, April 2012,

,

,

,

Nottingham, M.
DOI 10.17487/RFC8164

 and

M. Thomson "Opportunistic Security for HTTP/2" RFC 8164
,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8164>
.

, May 2017,

,

Cheng, Y. Chu, J. Radhakrishnan, S.
,
,
10.17487/RFC7413
, December 2014,

A. Jain "TCP Fast Open" RFC 7413 DOI

, and
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7413>
.

,

,

,

Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
,
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>
.

, August 2018,

,

Appendix A.  Considerations for Transitioning from HTTP/2

HTTP/3 is strongly informed by HTTP/2, and it bears many similarities. This section describes the
approach taken to design HTTP/3, points out important diﬀerences from HTTP/2, and describes
how to map HTTP/2 extensions into HTTP/3.

HTTP/3 begins from the premise that similarity to HTTP/2 is preferable, but not a hard
requirement. HTTP/3 departs from HTTP/2 where QUIC diﬀers from TCP, either to take advantage
of QUIC features (like streams) or to accommodate important shortcomings (such as a lack of
total ordering). While HTTP/3 is similar to HTTP/2 in key aspects, such as the relationship of
requests and responses to streams, the details of the HTTP/3 design are substantially diﬀerent
from HTTP/2.

Some important departures are noted in this section.

A.1.  Streams

HTTP/3 permits use of a larger number of streams (262-1) than HTTP/2. The same considerations
about exhaustion of stream identiﬁer space apply, though the space is signiﬁcantly larger such
that it is likely that other limits in QUIC are reached ﬁrst, such as the limit on the connection ﬂow-
control window.

In contrast to HTTP/2, stream concurrency in HTTP/3 is managed by QUIC. QUIC considers a
stream closed when all data has been received and sent data has been acknowledged by the peer.
HTTP/2 considers a stream closed when the frame containing the END_STREAM bit has been

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 47

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

committed to the transport. As a result, the stream for an equivalent exchange could remain
"active" for a longer period of time. HTTP/3 servers might choose to permit a larger number of
concurrent client-initiated bidirectional streams to achieve equivalent concurrency to HTTP/2,
depending on the expected usage patterns.

In HTTP/2, only request and response bodies (the frame payload of DATA frames) are subject to
ﬂow control. All HTTP/3 frames are sent on QUIC streams, so all frames on all streams are ﬂow
controlled in HTTP/3.

Due to the presence of other unidirectional stream types, HTTP/3 does not rely exclusively on the
number of concurrent unidirectional streams to control the number of concurrent in-ﬂight
pushes. Instead, HTTP/3 clients use the MAX_PUSH_ID frame to control the number of pushes
received from an HTTP/3 server.

A.2.  HTTP Frame Types

Many framing concepts from HTTP/2 can be elided on QUIC, because the transport deals with
them. Because frames are already on a stream, they can omit the stream number. Because
frames do not block multiplexing (QUIC's multiplexing occurs below this layer), the support for
variable-maximum-length packets can be removed. Because stream termination is handled by
QUIC, an END_STREAM ﬂag is not required. This permits the removal of the Flags ﬁeld from the
generic frame layout.

[HTTP/2]
Frame payloads are largely drawn from
ﬂow control) that are also present in HTTP/2. In these cases, the HTTP mapping does not re-
implement them. As a result, several HTTP/2 frame types are not required in HTTP/3. Where an
HTTP/2-deﬁned frame is no longer used, the frame ID has been reserved in order to maximize
portability between HTTP/2 and HTTP/3 implementations. However, even frame types that
appear in both mappings do not have identical semantics.

. However, QUIC includes many features (e.g.,

Many of the diﬀerences arise from the fact that HTTP/2 provides an absolute ordering between
frames across all streams, while QUIC provides this guarantee on each stream only. As a result, if
a frame type makes assumptions that frames from diﬀerent streams will still be received in the
order sent, HTTP/3 will break them.

Some examples of feature adaptations are described below, as well as general guidance to
extension frame implementors converting an HTTP/2 extension to HTTP/3.

A.2.1.  Prioritization Diﬀerences

HTTP/2 speciﬁes priority assignments in PRIORITY frames and (optionally) in HEADERS frames.
HTTP/3 does not provide a means of signaling priority.

Note that, while there is no explicit signaling for priority, this does not mean that prioritization is
not important for achieving good performance.

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 48

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

A.2.2.  Field Compression Diﬀerences

HPACK was designed with the assumption of in-order delivery. A sequence of encoded ﬁeld
sections must arrive (and be decoded) at an endpoint in the same order in which they were
encoded. This ensures that the dynamic state at the two endpoints remains in sync.

Because this total ordering is not provided by QUIC, HTTP/3 uses a modiﬁed version of HPACK,
called QPACK. QPACK uses a single unidirectional stream to make all modiﬁcations to the
dynamic table, ensuring a total order of updates. All frames that contain encoded ﬁelds merely
reference the table state at a given time without modifying it.

[QPACK]

 provides additional details.

A.2.3.  Flow-Control Diﬀerences

HTTP/2 speciﬁes a stream ﬂow-control mechanism. Although all HTTP/2 frames are delivered on
streams, only the DATA frame payload is subject to ﬂow control. QUIC provides ﬂow control for
stream data and all HTTP/3 frame types deﬁned in this document are sent on streams. Therefore,
all frame headers and payload are subject to ﬂow control.

A.2.4.  Guidance for New Frame Type Deﬁnitions

Frame type deﬁnitions in HTTP/3 often use the QUIC variable-length integer encoding. In
particular, stream IDs use this encoding, which allows for a larger range of possible values than
the encoding used in HTTP/2. Some frames in HTTP/3 use an identiﬁer other than a stream ID (e.g.,
push IDs). Redeﬁnition of the encoding of extension frame types might be necessary if the
encoding includes a stream ID.

Because the Flags ﬁeld is not present in generic HTTP/3 frames, those frames that depend on the
presence of ﬂags need to allocate space for ﬂags as part of their frame payload.

Other than these issues, frame type HTTP/2 extensions are typically portable to QUIC simply by
replacing stream 0 in HTTP/2 with a control stream in HTTP/3. HTTP/3 extensions will not assume
ordering, but would not be harmed by ordering, and are expected to be portable to HTTP/2.

A.2.5.  Comparison of HTTP/2 and HTTP/3 Frame Types

DATA (0x00):

Padding is not deﬁned in HTTP/3 frames. See Section 7.2.1.

HEADERS (0x01):

The PRIORITY region of HEADERS is not deﬁned in HTTP/3 frames. Padding is

not deﬁned in HTTP/3 frames. See Section 7.2.2.

PRIORITY (0x02):

As described in Appendix A.2.1, HTTP/3 does not provide a means of signaling

priority.

RST_STREAM (0x03):

RST_STREAM frames do not exist in HTTP/3, since QUIC provides stream

lifecycle management. The same code point is used for the CANCEL_PUSH frame (Section
7.2.3).

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 49

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

SETTINGS (0x04):

SETTINGS frames are sent only at the beginning of the connection. See Section

7.2.4 and Appendix A.3.

PUSH_PROMISE (0x05):

The PUSH_PROMISE frame does not reference a stream; instead, the

push stream references the PUSH_PROMISE frame using a push ID. See Section 7.2.5.

PING (0x06):

PING frames do not exist in HTTP/3, as QUIC provides equivalent functionality.

GOAWAY (0x07):

GOAWAY does not contain an error code. In the client-to-server direction, it

carries a push ID instead of a server-initiated stream ID. See Section 7.2.6.

WINDOW_UPDATE (0x08):
provides ﬂow control.

WINDOW_UPDATE frames do not exist in HTTP/3, since QUIC

CONTINUATION (0x09):

CONTINUATION frames do not exist in HTTP/3; instead, larger

HEADERS/PUSH_PROMISE frames than HTTP/2 are permitted.

Frame types deﬁned by extensions to HTTP/2 need to be separately registered for HTTP/3 if still
applicable. The IDs of frames deﬁned in
frame type space in HTTP/3 is substantially larger (62 bits versus 8 bits), so many HTTP/3 frame
types have no equivalent HTTP/2 code points. See Section 11.2.1.

 have been reserved for simplicity. Note that the

[HTTP/2]

A.3.  HTTP/2 SETTINGS Parameters

An important diﬀerence from HTTP/2 is that settings are sent once, as the ﬁrst frame of the
control stream, and thereafter cannot change. This eliminates many corner cases around
synchronization of changes.

Some transport-level options that HTTP/2 speciﬁes via the SETTINGS frame are superseded by
QUIC transport parameters in HTTP/3. The HTTP-level setting that is retained in HTTP/3 has the
same value as in HTTP/2. The superseded settings are reserved, and their receipt is an error. See
Section 7.2.4.1 for discussion of both the retained and reserved values.

Below is a listing of how each HTTP/2 SETTINGS parameter is mapped:

SETTINGS_HEADER_TABLE_SIZE (0x01):

See

[QPACK]

.

SETTINGS_ENABLE_PUSH (0x02):

This is removed in favor of the MAX_PUSH_ID frame, which

provides a more granular control over server push. Specifying a setting with the identiﬁer 0x02
(corresponding to the SETTINGS_ENABLE_PUSH parameter) in the HTTP/3 SETTINGS frame is
an error.

SETTINGS_MAX_CONCURRENT_STREAMS (0x03):

QUIC controls the largest open stream ID as

part of its ﬂow-control logic. Specifying a setting with the identiﬁer 0x03 (corresponding to the
SETTINGS_MAX_CONCURRENT_STREAMS parameter) in the HTTP/3 SETTINGS frame is an
error.

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 50

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

SETTINGS_INITIAL_WINDOW_SIZE (0x04):

QUIC requires both stream and connection ﬂow-
control window sizes to be speciﬁed in the initial transport handshake. Specifying a setting
with the identiﬁer 0x04 (corresponding to the SETTINGS_INITIAL_WINDOW_SIZE parameter)
in the HTTP/3 SETTINGS frame is an error.

SETTINGS_MAX_FRAME_SIZE (0x05):

This setting has no equivalent in HTTP/3. Specifying a

setting with the identiﬁer 0x05 (corresponding to the SETTINGS_MAX_FRAME_SIZE parameter)
in the HTTP/3 SETTINGS frame is an error.

SETTINGS_MAX_HEADER_LIST_SIZE (0x06):
SETTINGS_MAX_FIELD_SECTION_SIZE.

This setting identiﬁer has been renamed

In HTTP/3, setting values are variable-length integers (6, 14, 30, or 62 bits long) rather than ﬁxed-
length 32-bit ﬁelds as in HTTP/2. This will often produce a shorter encoding, but can produce a
longer encoding for settings that use the full 32-bit space. Settings ported from HTTP/2 might
choose to redeﬁne their value to limit it to 30 bits for more eﬃcient encoding or to make use of
the 62-bit space if more than 30 bits are required.

Settings need to be deﬁned separately for HTTP/2 and HTTP/3. The IDs of settings deﬁned in
[HTTP/2]
substantially larger (62 bits versus 16 bits), so many HTTP/3 settings have no equivalent HTTP/2
code point. See Section 11.2.2.

 have been reserved for simplicity. Note that the settings identiﬁer space in HTTP/3 is

As QUIC streams might arrive out of order, endpoints are advised not to wait for the peers'
settings to arrive before responding to other streams. See Section 7.2.4.2.

A.4.  HTTP/2 Error Codes

QUIC has the same concepts of "stream" and "connection" errors that HTTP/2 provides. However,
the diﬀerences between HTTP/2 and HTTP/3 mean that error codes are not directly portable
between versions.

The HTTP/2 error codes deﬁned in
as follows:

Section 7 of [HTTP/2]

 logically map to the HTTP/3 error codes

NO_ERROR (0x00):

H3_NO_ERROR in Section 8.1.

PROTOCOL_ERROR (0x01):

This is mapped to H3_GENERAL_PROTOCOL_ERROR except in cases

where more speciﬁc error codes have been deﬁned. Such cases include
H3_FRAME_UNEXPECTED, H3_MESSAGE_ERROR, and H3_CLOSED_CRITICAL_STREAM deﬁned
in Section 8.1.

INTERNAL_ERROR (0x02):

H3_INTERNAL_ERROR in Section 8.1.

FLOW_CONTROL_ERROR (0x03):

Not applicable, since QUIC handles ﬂow control.

SETTINGS_TIMEOUT (0x04):

Not applicable, since no acknowledgment of SETTINGS is deﬁned.

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 51

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

STREAM_CLOSED (0x05):

Not applicable, since QUIC handles stream management.

FRAME_SIZE_ERROR (0x06):

H3_FRAME_ERROR error code deﬁned in Section 8.1.

REFUSED_STREAM (0x07):

H3_REQUEST_REJECTED (in Section 8.1) is used to indicate that a

request was not processed. Otherwise, not applicable because QUIC handles stream
management.

CANCEL (0x08):

H3_REQUEST_CANCELLED in Section 8.1.

COMPRESSION_ERROR (0x09):

Multiple error codes are deﬁned in

[QPACK]

.

CONNECT_ERROR (0x0a):

H3_CONNECT_ERROR in Section 8.1.

ENHANCE_YOUR_CALM (0x0b):

H3_EXCESSIVE_LOAD in Section 8.1.

INADEQUATE_SECURITY (0x0c):
security on all connections.

Not applicable, since QUIC is assumed to provide suﬃcient

HTTP_1_1_REQUIRED (0x0d):

H3_VERSION_FALLBACK in Section 8.1.

Error codes need to be deﬁned for HTTP/2 and HTTP/3 separately. See Section 11.2.3.

A.4.1.  Mapping between HTTP/2 and HTTP/3 Errors

An intermediary that converts between HTTP/2 and HTTP/3 may encounter error conditions
from either upstream. It is useful to communicate the occurrence of errors to the downstream,
but error codes largely reﬂect connection-local problems that generally do not make sense to
propagate.

An intermediary that encounters an error from an upstream origin can indicate this by sending
an HTTP status code such as 502 (Bad Gateway), which is suitable for a broad class of errors.

There are some rare cases where it is beneﬁcial to propagate the error by mapping it to the closest
matching error type to the receiver. For example, an intermediary that receives an HTTP/2
stream error of type REFUSED_STREAM from the origin has a clear signal that the request was not
processed and that the request is safe to retry. Propagating this error condition to the client as an
HTTP/3 stream error of type H3_REQUEST_REJECTED allows the client to take the action it deems
most appropriate. In the reverse direction, the intermediary might deem it beneﬁcial to pass on
client request cancellations that are indicated by terminating a stream with
H3_REQUEST_CANCELLED; see Section 4.1.1.

Conversion between errors is described in the logical mapping. The error codes are deﬁned in
non-overlapping spaces in order to protect against accidental conversion that could result in the
use of inappropriate or unknown error codes for the target version. An intermediary is permitted
to promote stream errors to connection errors but they should be aware of the cost to the HTTP/3
connection for what might be a temporary or intermittent error.

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 52

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

Acknowledgments

Robbie Shade
 and
of this document.

Mike Warres

 were the authors of draft-shade-quic-http2-mapping, a precursor

The IETF QUIC Working Group received an enormous amount of support from many people.
Among others, the following people provided substantial contributions to this document:

• Bence Beky

• Daan De Meyer

• Martin Duke

• Roy Fielding

• Alan Frindell

• Alessandro Ghedini

• Nick Harper

• Ryan Hamilton

• Christian Huitema

• Subodh Iyengar

• Robin Marx

• Patrick McManus

• Luca Niccolini

•

奥 一穂 Kazuho Oku
)

 (

• Lucas Pardue

• Roberto Peon

• Julian Reschke

• Eric Rescorla

• Martin Seemann

• Ben Schwartz

• Ian Swett

• Willy Taureau

• Martin Thomson

• Dmitri Tikhonov

• Tatsuhiro Tsujikawa

A portion of
there.

Mike Bishop

's contribution was supported by Microsoft during his employment

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 53

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

Index

C D G H M P R S

C

CANCEL_PUSH

Section 2, Paragraph 5; Section 4.6, Paragraph 6; Section 4.6, Paragraph

10; Table 1; Section 7.2.3; Section 7.2.5, Paragraph 4.2.1; Section 7.2.7, Paragraph 1;
Table 2; Appendix A.2.5, Paragraph 1.8.1

connection error

Section 2.2; Section 4.1, Paragraph 7; Section 4.1, Paragraph 8; Section 4.4, Paragraph 8;
Section 4.4, Paragraph 10; Section 4.6, Paragraph 3; Section 5.2, Paragraph 7; Section
6.1, Paragraph 3; Section 6.2, Paragraph 7; Section 6.2.1, Paragraph 2; Section 6.2.1,
Paragraph 2; Section 6.2.1, Paragraph 2; Section 6.2.2, Paragraph 3; Section 6.2.2,
Paragraph 6; Section 7.1, Paragraph 5; Section 7.1, Paragraph 6; Section 7.2.1,
Paragraph 2; Section 7.2.2, Paragraph 3; Section 7.2.3, Paragraph 5; Section 7.2.3,
Paragraph 7; Section 7.2.3, Paragraph 8; Section 7.2.4, Paragraph 2; Section 7.2.4,
Paragraph 3; Section 7.2.4, Paragraph 6; Section 7.2.4.1, Paragraph 5; Section 7.2.4.2,
Paragraph 8; Section 7.2.4.2, Paragraph 8; Section 7.2.5, Paragraph 5; Section 7.2.5,
Paragraph 6; Section 7.2.5, Paragraph 8; Section 7.2.5, Paragraph 9; Section 7.2.6,
Paragraph 3; Section 7.2.6, Paragraph 5; Section 7.2.7, Paragraph 2; Section 7.2.7,
Paragraph 3; Section 7.2.7, Paragraph 6; Section 7.2.8, Paragraph 3; Section 8; Section
10.5, Paragraph 7; Appendix A.4.1, Paragraph 4

control stream

Section 2, Paragraph 3; Section 3.2, Paragraph 4; Section 6.2, Paragraph 3; Section 6.2,
Paragraph 5; Section 6.2, Paragraph 6; Section 6.2.1; Section 7, Paragraph 1; Section
7.2.1, Paragraph 2; Section 7.2.2, Paragraph 3; Section 7.2.3, Paragraph 5; Section 7.2.3,
Paragraph 5; Section 7.2.4, Paragraph 2; Section 7.2.4, Paragraph 2; Section 7.2.4,
Paragraph 3; Section 7.2.5, Paragraph 8; Section 7.2.6, Paragraph 3; Section 7.2.6,
Paragraph 5; Section 7.2.7, Paragraph 2; Section 8.1, Paragraph 2.22.1; Section 9,
Paragraph 4; Appendix A.2.4, Paragraph 3; Appendix A.3, Paragraph 1

DATA

Section 2, Paragraph 3; Section 4.1, Paragraph 5, Item 2; Section 4.1, Paragraph 7;
Section 4.1, Paragraph 7; Section 4.1.2, Paragraph 3; Section 4.1.2, Paragraph 3; Section
4.4, Paragraph 7; Section 4.4, Paragraph 7; Section 4.4, Paragraph 7; Section 4.4,
Paragraph 7; Section 4.4, Paragraph 8; Section 4.6, Paragraph 12; Table 1; Section 7.2.1;
Table 2; Appendix A.1, Paragraph 3; Appendix A.2.3, Paragraph 1; Appendix A.2.5

D

G

GOAWAY

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 54

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

Section 3.3, Paragraph 5; Section 5.2, Paragraph 1; Section 5.2, Paragraph 1; Section 5.2,
Paragraph 1; Section 5.2, Paragraph 2; Section 5.2, Paragraph 2; Section 5.2, Paragraph
3; Section 5.2, Paragraph 5.1.1; Section 5.2, Paragraph 5.1.1; Section 5.2, Paragraph 5.1.2;
Section 5.2, Paragraph 5.1.2; Section 5.2, Paragraph 5, Item 2; Section 5.2, Paragraph 5,
Item 2; Section 5.2, Paragraph 6; Section 5.2, Paragraph 6; Section 5.2, Paragraph 7;
Section 5.2, Paragraph 7; Section 5.2, Paragraph 8; Section 5.2, Paragraph 8; Section 5.2,
Paragraph 9; Section 5.2, Paragraph 9; Section 5.2, Paragraph 10; Section 5.2,
Paragraph 12; Section 5.3, Paragraph 2; Section 5.3, Paragraph 2; Section 5.4,
Paragraph 2; Table 1; Section 7.2.6; Table 2; Appendix A.2.5; Appendix A.2.5, Paragraph
1.16.1

H

H3_CLOSED_CRITICAL_STREAM
Appendix A.4, Paragraph 3.4.1

Section 6.2.1, Paragraph 2; Section 8.1; Table 4;

H3_CONNECT_ERROR
Paragraph 3.22.1
H3_EXCESSIVE_LOAD
Paragraph 3.24.1
H3_FRAME_ERROR

Section 4.4, Paragraph 10; Section 8.1; Table 4; Appendix A.4,

Section 8.1; Section 10.5, Paragraph 7; Table 4; Appendix A.4,

Section 7.1, Paragraph 5; Section 7.1, Paragraph 6; Section 8.1; Table

4; Appendix A.4, Paragraph 3.14.1

H3_FRAME_UNEXPECTED

Section 4.1, Paragraph 7; Section 4.1, Paragraph 8; Section 4.4, Paragraph 8; Section
7.2.1, Paragraph 2; Section 7.2.2, Paragraph 3; Section 7.2.3, Paragraph 5; Section 7.2.4,
Paragraph 2; Section 7.2.4, Paragraph 3; Section 7.2.5, Paragraph 8; Section 7.2.5,
Paragraph 9; Section 7.2.6, Paragraph 5; Section 7.2.7, Paragraph 2; Section 7.2.7,
Paragraph 3; Section 7.2.8, Paragraph 3; Section 8.1; Table 4; Appendix A.4, Paragraph
3.4.1

H3_GENERAL_PROTOCOL_ERROR
Appendix A.4, Paragraph 3.4.1

H3_ID_ERROR

Section 7.2.5, Paragraph 6; Section 8.1; Table 4;

Section 4.6, Paragraph 3; Section 5.2, Paragraph 7; Section 6.2.2, Paragraph 6; Section
7.2.3, Paragraph 7; Section 7.2.3, Paragraph 8; Section 7.2.5, Paragraph 5; Section 7.2.6,
Paragraph 3; Section 7.2.7, Paragraph 6; Section 8.1; Table 4

Section 8.1; Table 4; Appendix A.4, Paragraph 3.6.1
Section 4.1.2, Paragraph 4; Section 8.1; Table 4; Appendix A.4,

H3_INTERNAL_ERROR
H3_MESSAGE_ERROR
Paragraph 3.4.1
H3_MISSING_SETTINGS
H3_NO_ERROR

Section 6.2.1, Paragraph 2; Section 8.1; Table 4
Section 4.1, Paragraph 15; Section 5.2, Paragraph 11; Section 6.2.3,

Paragraph 2; Section 8, Paragraph 5; Section 8.1; Section 8.1, Paragraph 3; Section 8.1,
Paragraph 3; Table 4; Appendix A.4, Paragraph 3.2.1

H3_REQUEST_CANCELLED

Section 4.1.1, Paragraph 4; Section 4.1.1, Paragraph 5; Section 4.6, Paragraph 14;
Section 7.2.3, Paragraph 3; Section 7.2.3, Paragraph 4; Section 8.1; Table 4; Appendix A.
4, Paragraph 3.18.1; Appendix A.4.1, Paragraph 3

H3_REQUEST_INCOMPLETE

Section 4.1, Paragraph 14; Section 8.1; Table 4

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 55

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

H3_REQUEST_REJECTED

Section 4.1.1, Paragraph 3; Section 4.1.1, Paragraph 4; Section 4.1.1, Paragraph 5;
Section 4.1.1, Paragraph 5; Section 8.1; Table 4; Appendix A.4, Paragraph 3.16.1;
Appendix A.4.1, Paragraph 3

H3_SETTINGS_ERROR

Section 7.2.4, Paragraph 6; Section 7.2.4.1, Paragraph 5; Section

7.2.4.2, Paragraph 8; Section 7.2.4.2, Paragraph 8; Section 8.1; Table 4

H3_STREAM_CREATION_ERROR

Section 6.1, Paragraph 3; Section 6.2, Paragraph 7;

Section 6.2.1, Paragraph 2; Section 6.2.2, Paragraph 3; Section 8.1; Table 4

H3_VERSION_FALLBACK
HEADERS

Section 8.1; Table 4; Appendix A.4, Paragraph 3.28.1

Section 2, Paragraph 3; Section 4.1, Paragraph 5, Item 1; Section 4.1, Paragraph 5, Item
3; Section 4.1, Paragraph 7; Section 4.1, Paragraph 7; Section 4.1, Paragraph 7; Section
4.1, Paragraph 10; Section 4.4, Paragraph 6; Section 4.6, Paragraph 12; Table 1; Section
7.2.2; Section 9, Paragraph 5; Table 2; Appendix A.2.1, Paragraph 1; Appendix A.2.5;
Appendix A.2.5, Paragraph 1.4.1; Appendix A.2.5, Paragraph 1.20.1

M

malformed

Section 4.1, Paragraph 3; Section 4.1.2; Section 4.2, Paragraph 2; Section 4.2, Paragraph
3; Section 4.2, Paragraph 5; Section 4.3, Paragraph 3; Section 4.3, Paragraph 4; Section
4.3.1, Paragraph 5; Section 4.3.2, Paragraph 1; Section 4.4, Paragraph 5; Section 8.1,
Paragraph 2.30.1; Section 10.3, Paragraph 1; Section 10.3, Paragraph 2; Section 10.5.1,
Paragraph 2
MAX_PUSH_ID

Section 2, Paragraph 5; Section 4.6, Paragraph 3; Section 4.6, Paragraph 3; Section 4.6,
Paragraph 3; Section 4.6, Paragraph 3; Table 1; Section 7.2.5, Paragraph 5; Section
7.2.7; Table 2; Appendix A.1, Paragraph 4; Appendix A.3, Paragraph 4.4.1

P

push ID

Section 4.6; Section 5.2, Paragraph 1; Section 5.2, Paragraph 5, Item 2; Section 5.2,
Paragraph 9; Section 6.2.2, Paragraph 2; Section 6.2.2, Paragraph 6; Section 6.2.2,
Paragraph 6; Section 7.2.3, Paragraph 1; Section 7.2.3, Paragraph 7; Section 7.2.3,
Paragraph 7; Section 7.2.3, Paragraph 8; Section 7.2.3, Paragraph 8; Section 7.2.5,
Paragraph 4.2.1; Section 7.2.5, Paragraph 5; Section 7.2.5, Paragraph 5; Section 7.2.5,
Paragraph 6; Section 7.2.5, Paragraph 6; Section 7.2.5, Paragraph 7; Section 7.2.5,
Paragraph 7; Section 7.2.5, Paragraph 7; Section 7.2.6, Paragraph 4; Section 7.2.7,
Paragraph 1; Section 7.2.7, Paragraph 4; Section 7.2.7, Paragraph 4; Section 7.2.7,
Paragraph 6; Section 7.2.7, Paragraph 6; Section 8.1, Paragraph 2.18.1; Appendix A.2.5,
Paragraph 1.12.1; Appendix A.2.5, Paragraph 1.16.1

push stream

Section 4.1, Paragraph 8; Section 4.1, Paragraph 9; Section 4.6, Paragraph 3; Section 4.6,
Paragraph 5; Section 4.6, Paragraph 5; Section 4.6, Paragraph 13; Section 4.6,
Paragraph 13; Section 4.6, Paragraph 13; Section 6.2, Paragraph 3; Section 6.2.2;
Section 7, Paragraph 1; Section 7.2.2, Paragraph 3; Section 7.2.3, Paragraph 1; Section

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 56

RFC 9114

HTTP/3

June 2022

7.2.3, Paragraph 2; Section 7.2.3, Paragraph 2; Section 7.2.3, Paragraph 2; Section 7.2.3,
Paragraph 2; Section 7.2.3, Paragraph 3; Section 7.2.3, Paragraph 4; Section 7.2.3,
Paragraph 4; Section 7.2.3, Paragraph 4; Section 7.2.5, Paragraph 4.2.1; Section 7.2.7,
Paragraph 1; Appendix A.2.5, Paragraph 1.12.1

PUSH_PROMISE

Section 2, Paragraph 5; Section 4.1, Paragraph 8; Section 4.1, Paragraph 8; Section 4.1,
Paragraph 8; Section 4.1, Paragraph 8; Section 4.1, Paragraph 10; Section 4.6,
Paragraph 4; Section 4.6, Paragraph 10; Section 4.6, Paragraph 11; Section 4.6,
Paragraph 11; Section 4.6, Paragraph 12; Section 4.6, Paragraph 12; Section 4.6,
Paragraph 13; Section 4.6, Paragraph 13; Section 4.6, Paragraph 13; Table 1; Section
7.2.3, Paragraph 8; Section 7.2.3, Paragraph 8; Section 7.2.5; Section 7.2.7, Paragraph 1;
Section 10.4, Paragraph 1; Section 10.5, Paragraph 2; Table 2; Appendix A.2.5; Appendix
A.2.5, Paragraph 1.12.1; Appendix A.2.5, Paragraph 1.12.1; Appendix A.2.5, Paragraph
1.20.1

request stream

Section 4.1, Paragraph 1; Section 4.1, Paragraph 15; Section 4.1, Paragraph 15; Section
4.1.1, Paragraph 1; Section 4.1.1, Paragraph 5; Section 4.4, Paragraph 5; Section 4.4,
Paragraph 9; Section 4.6, Paragraph 4; Section 4.6, Paragraph 4; Section 4.6, Paragraph
11; Section 4.6, Paragraph 11; Section 6.1; Section 7, Paragraph 1; Section 7.2.2,
Paragraph 3; Section 7.2.5, Paragraph 1

R

S

SETTINGS

Section 3.2, Paragraph 4; Section 3.2, Paragraph 4; Section 6.2.1, Paragraph 2; Table 1;
Section 7, Paragraph 3; Section 7.2.4; Section 8.1, Paragraph 2.20.1; Section 8.1,
Paragraph 2.22.1; Section 9, Paragraph 4; Section 10.5, Paragraph 4; Table 2; Table 4;
Table 4; Appendix A.2.5; Appendix A.2.5, Paragraph 1.10.1; Appendix A.3, Paragraph 2;
Appendix A.3, Paragraph 3; Appendix A.3, Paragraph 4.4.1; Appendix A.3, Paragraph
4.6.1; Appendix A.3, Paragraph 4.8.1; Appendix A.3, Paragraph 4.10.1; Appendix A.4,
Paragraph 3.10.1

SETTINGS_MAX_FIELD_SECTION_SIZE

Section 4.2.2, Paragraph 2; Section 7.2.4.1; Section

10.5.1, Paragraph 2; Appendix A.3, Paragraph 4.12.1

stream error

Section 2.2; Section 4.1.2, Paragraph 4; Section 4.4, Paragraph 10; Section 8;
Appendix A.4.1, Paragraph 3; Appendix A.4.1, Paragraph 3; Appendix A.4.1, Paragraph 4

Author's Address

editor
)

Mike Bishop (
Akamai
Email:

 mbishop@evequefou.be

Bishop

Standards Track

Page 57

