Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9532
Standards Track
January 2024
2070-1721
T. Pauly
Apple, Inc.

RFC 9532
HTTP Proxy-Status Parameter for Next-Hop Aliases

Abstract

This document defines the next-hop-aliases HTTP Proxy-Status Parameter. This parameter
carries the list of aliases and canonical names an intermediary received during DNS resolution
as part of establishing a connection to the next hop.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9532
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Pauly

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9532

Next-Hop Aliases Proxy-Status Parameter

January 2024

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements

2.  next-hop-aliases Parameter

2.1.  Encoding Special Characters

3.  Implementation Considerations

4.  Security Considerations

5.  IANA Considerations

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

6.2.  Informative References

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

2

3

3

4

5

5

5

6

6

6

7

[PROXY-STATUS]
The Proxy-Status HTTP response field
information about how they handled the request in HTTP responses sent to clients. It defines a
set of parameters that provide information, such as the name of the next hop.

 allows intermediaries to convey

 defines a next-hop parameter, which can contain a hostname, IP address, or

[PROXY-STATUS]
alias of the next hop. This parameter can contain only one such item, so it cannot be used to
communicate a chain of aliases encountered during DNS resolution when connecting to the next
hop.

[DNS]
Knowing the full chain of names that were used during DNS resolution via CNAME records
is particularly useful for clients of forward proxies, in which the client is requesting to connect to
[CONNECT-UDP]
a specific target hostname using the CONNECT method
.
CNAME records can be used to "cloak" hosts that perform tracking or malicious activity behind
more innocuous hostnames, and clients such as web browsers use the chain of DNS names to
influence behavior like cookie usage policies

 or the blocking of malicious hosts.

 or UDP proxying

[COOKIES]

[HTTP]

This document allows clients to receive the CNAME chain of DNS names for the next hop by
including the list of names in a new next-hop-aliases Proxy-Status parameter.

Pauly

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9532

Next-Hop Aliases Proxy-Status Parameter

January 2024

1.1.  Requirements

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  next-hop-aliases Parameter

[STRUCTURED-FIELDS]

The value of the next-hop-aliases parameter is a String
 that contains
one or more DNS names in a comma-separated list. The items in the list include all alias names
and canonical names received in CNAME records
 during the course of resolving the next
hop's hostname using DNS and
 include the original requested hostname itself. The names
ought to appear in the order in which they were received in DNS, for the sake of consistency. If
there are multiple CNAME records in the chain, the first name in the next-hop-aliases list
would be the value in the CNAME record for the original hostname, and the final name in the
next-hop-aliases list would be the name that ultimately resolved to one or more addresses.

[DNS]

MAY

The list of DNS names in next-hop-aliases parameter uses a comma (",") as a separator
between names. Note that if a comma is included in a name itself, the comma must be encoded
as described in Section 2.1.

For example, consider a proxy "proxy.example.net" that receives the following records when
performing DNS resolution for the next hop "host.example.com":

host.example.com.           CNAME   tracker.example.com.
tracker.example.com.        CNAME   service1.example.com.
service1.example.com.       AAAA    2001:db8::1

The proxy could include the following proxy status in its response:

Proxy-Status: proxy.example.net; next-hop="2001:db8::1";
    next-hop-aliases="tracker.example.com,service1.example.com"

This indicates that "proxy.example.net", which used the IP address "2001:db8::1" as the next hop
for this request, encountered the names "tracker.example.com" and "service1.example.com" in
the DNS resolution chain. Note that while this example includes both the next-hop and next-
hop-aliases parameters, next-hop-aliases can be included without including next-hop.

The proxy can also include the name of the next hop as the first item in the list. This is
particularly useful for reverse proxies when clients would not otherwise know the name of the
next hop, and the next-hop header is used to convey an IP address.

For example, consider a proxy "reverseproxy.example.net" that receives the following records
when performing DNS resolution for the next hop "host.example.com":

Pauly

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9532

Next-Hop Aliases Proxy-Status Parameter

January 2024

host2.example.com.          CNAME   service2.example.com.
service2.example.com.       AAAA    2001:db8::2

The proxy could include the following proxy status in its response:

Proxy-Status: reverseproxy.example.net; next-hop="2001:db8::2";
    next-hop-aliases="host2.example.com,service2.example.com"

The next-hop-aliases parameter only applies when DNS was used to resolve the next hop's
name, and it does not apply in all situations. Clients can use the information in this parameter to
determine how to use the connection established through the proxy, but they need to gracefully
handle situations in which this parameter is not present.

The proxy
indicate that no CNAME records were encountered when resolving the next hop's name.

 send the empty string ("") as the value of next-hop-aliases parameter to

MAY

2.1.  Encoding Special Characters

DNS names commonly contain just alphanumeric characters and hyphens ("-"), although they are
allowed to contain any character (
commas or other special characters in names leading to incorrect parsing, any characters that
appear in names in this list that do not belong to the set of URI unreserved characters (
Section 2.3 MUST

 be percent-encoded as defined in

), including a comma. To prevent

[RFC3986], Section 2.1
.

[RFC1035], Section 3.1

[RFC3986],

)

For example, consider the DNS name "comma,name.example.com". This name would be encoded
within a next-hop-aliases parameter as follows:

Proxy-Status: proxy.example.net; next-hop="2001:db8::1";
    next-hop-aliases="comma%2Cname.example.com,service1.example.com"

It is also possible for a DNS name to include a period character (".") within a label instead of as a
label separator. In this case, the period character
character itself will be percent-encoded, the name "dot\.label.example.com" would be encoded
within a next-hop-aliases parameter as follows:

 first be escaped as "\.". Since the "\"

MUST

Proxy-Status: proxy.example.net; next-hop="2001:db8::1";
    next-hop-aliases="dot%5C.label.example.com,service1.example.com"

Upon parsing this name, "dot%5C.label"

MUST

 be treated as a single label.

Similarly, the "\" character in a label
uses of "\"
name "backslash\name.example.com", it would first be escaped as "backslash\
\name.example.com" and then percent-encoded as follows:

 be escaped as "\\" and then percent-encoded. Other
 appear in the label after percent-decoding. For example, if there is a DNS

MUST NOT

MUST

Pauly

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9532

Next-Hop Aliases Proxy-Status Parameter

January 2024

Proxy-Status: proxy.example.net; next-hop="2001:db8::1";
    next-hop-aliases="backslash%5C%5Cname.example.com,s1.example.com"

3.  Implementation Considerations

In order to include the next-hop-aliases parameter, a proxy needs to have access to the chain
of alias names and canonical names received in CNAME records.

Implementations ought to note that the full chain of names might not be available in common
[POSIX]
DNS resolution APIs, such as getaddrinfo
[RFC3493], Section 6.1
AI_CANONNAME (
canonical name), not the alias names.

), but this will only return the last name in the chain (the

. getaddrinfo does have an option for

An implementation
accommodate cases where it is unable to include the full chain, such as only including the
canonical name if the implementation can only use getaddrinfo as described above.

 include incomplete information in the next-hop-aliases parameter to

MAY

4.  Security Considerations

The next-hop-aliases parameter does not include any DNSSEC information or imply that
DNSSEC was used. The information included in the parameter can only be trusted to be valid
insofar as the client trusts the proxy to provide accurate information. This information is
intended to be used as a hint and
identity of a resource accessed through the proxy.

 be used for making security decisions about the

SHOULD NOT

Inspecting CNAME chains can be used to detect cloaking of trackers or malicious hosts. However,
the CNAME records could be omitted by a recursive or authoritative resolver that is trying to
hide this form of cloaking. In particular, recursive or authoritative resolvers can omit these
records for both clients directly performing DNS name resolution and proxies performing DNS
name resolution on behalf of a client. A malicious proxy could also choose to not report these
CNAME chains in order to hide the cloaking. In general, clients can trust information included
(or not included) in the next-hop-aliases parameter to the degree that the proxy and any
resolvers used by the proxy are trusted.

5.  IANA Considerations

This document registers the next-hop-aliases parameter in the "HTTP Proxy-Status
Parameters" registry

<https://www.iana.org/assignments/http-proxy-status>

 as shown in Table 1.

Pauly

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9532

Next-Hop Aliases Proxy-Status Parameter

January 2024

Name

Description

next‑hop‑aliases

A string containing one or more DNS aliases or canonical
names used to establish a proxied connection to the next
hop.

Table 1: HTTP Proxy-Status Parameters Registry

Reference

RFC 9532

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

[CONNECT-UDP]

Schinazi, D. "Proxying UDP in HTTP" RFC 9298 DOI 10.17487/RFC9298

,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9298>

,

August 2022,

.

,

[DNS]

[HTTP]

Mockapetris, P. "Domain names - concepts and facilities" STD 13 RFC 1034 DOI
10.17487/RFC1034

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1034>

, November 1987,

,

,

,

.

,

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
97 RFC 9110 DOI 10.17487/RFC9110
rfc9110>

,

,

.

, and
, June 2022,

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP Semantics" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

[PROXY-STATUS]

Nottingham, M.

 and

P. Sikora "The Proxy-Status HTTP Response Header

,

Field" RFC 9209 DOI 10.17487/RFC9209
,
info/rfc9209>

,

.

, June 2022,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

[RFC2119]

[RFC3986]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Berners-Lee, T. Fielding, R.
, and
Generic Syntax" STD 66 RFC 3986 DOI 10.17487/RFC3986
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3986>

,

,

,

,

.

L. Masinter "Uniform Resource Identifier (URI):

, January 2005,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

[STRUCTURED-FIELDS]

Nottingham, M.

 and

P. Kamp "Structured Field Values for HTTP" RFC

,

,

8941 DOI 10.17487/RFC8941
,
rfc8941>

.

, February 2021,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

6.2.  Informative References

[COOKIES]

Barth, A. "HTTP State Management Mechanism" RFC 6265 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6265

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6265>

,
, April 2011,

,

,

.

Pauly

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9532

Next-Hop Aliases Proxy-Status Parameter

January 2024

[POSIX]

[RFC1035]

[RFC3493]

,

IEEE "IEEE Standard for Information Technology--Portable Operating System
Interface (POSIX(TM)) Base Specifications, Issue 7" IEEE Std 1003.1-2017 DOI
10.1109/IEEESTD.2018.8277153
, January 2018,
document/8277153>

,
<https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/

,

.

Mockapetris, P. "Domain names - implementation and specification" STD 13
,
RFC 1035 DOI 10.17487/RFC1035
info/rfc1035>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, November 1987,

,

,

.

,

,

Gilligan, R. Thomson, S. Bound, J. McCann, J.
,
Interface Extensions for IPv6" RFC 3493 DOI 10.17487/RFC3493
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3493>
.

, and

,

,

,

W. Stevens "Basic Socket

, February 2003,

Author's Address

Tommy Pauly
Apple, Inc.
Email:

 tpauly@apple.com

Pauly

Standards Track

Page 7

