Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9218
Standards Track
June 2022
2070-1721
奥 一穂 K. Oku
 (
Fastly

L. Pardue
Cloudﬂare

)

RFC 9218
Extensible Prioritization Scheme for HTTP

Abstract

This document describes a scheme that allows an HTTP client to communicate its preferences for
how the upstream server prioritizes responses to its requests, and also allows a server to hint to a
downstream intermediary how its responses should be prioritized when they are forwarded. This
document deﬁnes the Priority header ﬁeld for communicating the initial priority in an HTTP
version-independent manner, as well as HTTP/2 and HTTP/3 frames for reprioritizing responses.
These share a common format structure that is designed to provide future extensibility.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9218
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

Oku & Pardue

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9218

HTTP Priorities

June 2022

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Notational Conventions

2.  Motivation for Replacing RFC 7540 Stream Priorities

2.1.  Disabling RFC 7540 Stream Priorities

2.1.1.  Advice when Using Extensible Priorities as the Alternative

3.  Applicability of the Extensible Priority Scheme

4.  Priority Parameters

4.1.  Urgency

4.2.  Incremental

4.3.  Deﬁning New Priority Parameters

4.3.1.  Registration

5.  The Priority HTTP Header Field

6.  Reprioritization

7.  The PRIORITY_UPDATE Frame

7.1.  HTTP/2 PRIORITY_UPDATE Frame

7.2.  HTTP/3 PRIORITY_UPDATE Frame

8.  Merging Client- and Server-Driven Priority Parameters

9.  Client Scheduling

10. Server Scheduling

10.1.  Intermediaries with Multiple Backend Connections

11. Scheduling and the CONNECT Method

12. Retransmission Scheduling

13. Fairness

13.1.  Coalescing Intermediaries

13.2.  HTTP/1.x Back Ends

13.3.  Intentional Introduction of Unfairness

14. Why Use an End-to-End Header Field?

Oku & Pardue

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9218

HTTP Priorities

June 2022

15. Security Considerations

16. IANA Considerations

17. References

17.1.  Normative References

17.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

 resource to have relationships to one or

[HTTP]
It is common for representations of an HTTP
more other resources. Clients will often discover these relationships while processing a retrieved
representation, which may lead to further retrieval requests. Meanwhile, the nature of the
relationships determines whether a client is blocked from continuing to process locally available
resources. An example of this is the visual rendering of an HTML document, which could be
blocked by the retrieval of a Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) ﬁle that the document refers to. In
contrast, inline images do not block rendering and get drawn incrementally as the chunks of the
images arrive.

[HTTP/2]

[HTTP/3]

 and HTTP/3

 support multiplexing of requests and responses in a single

HTTP/2
connection. An important feature of any implementation of a protocol that provides
multiplexing is the ability to prioritize the sending of information. For example, to provide
meaningful presentation of an HTML document at the earliest moment, it is important for an
HTTP server to prioritize the HTTP responses, or the chunks of those HTTP responses, that it sends
to a client.

HTTP/2 and HTTP/3 servers can schedule transmission of concurrent response data by any
means they choose. Servers can ignore client priority signals and still successfully serve HTTP
responses. However, servers that operate in ignorance of how clients issue requests and consume
responses can cause suboptimal client application performance. Priority signals allow clients to
communicate their view of request priority. Servers have their own needs that are independent of
client needs, so they often combine priority signals with other available information in order to
inform scheduling of response data.

[RFC7540]

RFC 7540
 stream priority allowed a client to send a series of priority signals that
communicate to the server a "priority tree"; the structure of this tree represents the client's
preferred relative ordering and weighted distribution of the bandwidth among HTTP responses.
Servers could use these priority signals as input into prioritization decisions.

Oku & Pardue

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9218

HTTP Priorities

June 2022

The design and implementation of RFC 7540 stream priority were observed to have shortcomings,
as explained in Section 2. HTTP/2
priority signals. The prioritization scheme and priority signals deﬁned herein can act as a
substitute for RFC 7540 stream priority.

 has consequently deprecated the use of these stream

[HTTP/2]

This document describes an extensible scheme for prioritizing HTTP responses that uses absolute
values. Section 4 deﬁnes priority parameters, which are a standardized and extensible format of
priority information. Section 5 deﬁnes the Priority HTTP header ﬁeld, which is an end-to-end
priority signal that is independent of protocol version. Clients can send this header ﬁeld to signal
their view of how responses should be prioritized. Similarly, servers behind an intermediary can
use it to signal priority to the intermediary. After sending a request, a client can change their view
of response priority (see Section 6) by sending HTTP-version-speciﬁc frames as deﬁned in
Sections 7.1 and 7.2.

Header ﬁeld and frame priority signals are input to a server's response prioritization process.
They are only a suggestion and do not guarantee any particular processing or transmission order
for one response relative to any other response. Sections 10 and 12 provide considerations and
guidance about how servers might act upon signals.

1.1.  Notational Conventions

The key words "
", "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
", "
"
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

This document uses the following terminology from
syntax and parsing: "Boolean", "Dictionary", and "Integer".

Section 3 of [STRUCTURED-FIELDS]

 to specify

Example HTTP requests and responses use the HTTP/2-style formatting from

[HTTP/2]

.

This document uses the variable-length integer encoding from

[QUIC]

.

The term "control stream" is used to describe both the HTTP/2 stream with identiﬁer 0x0 and the
HTTP/3 control stream; see

Section 6.2.1 of [HTTP/3]

.

The term "HTTP/2 priority signal" is used to describe the priority information sent from clients to
servers in HTTP/2 frames; see

Section 5.3.2 of [HTTP/2]

.

2.  Motivation for Replacing RFC 7540 Stream Priorities

Section 5.3 of [RFC7540]

RFC 7540 stream priority (see
stream dependencies and weights to describe an unbalanced tree. It suﬀered from limited
deployment and interoperability and has been deprecated in a revision of HTTP/2
HTTP/2 retains these protocol elements in order to maintain wire compatibility (see
of [HTTP/2]
signaling, such as the scheme this document describes.

), which means that they might still be used even in the presence of alternative

) is a complex system where clients signal

[HTTP/2]

.
Section 5.3.2

Oku & Pardue

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9218

HTTP Priorities

June 2022

Many RFC 7540 server implementations do not act on HTTP/2 priority signals.

Prioritization can use information that servers have about resources or the order in which
requests are generated. For example, a server, with knowledge of an HTML document structure,
might want to prioritize the delivery of images that are critical to user experience above other
images. With RFC 7540, it is diﬃcult for servers to interpret signals from clients for prioritization,
as the same conditions could result in very diﬀerent signaling from diﬀerent clients. This
document describes signaling that is simpler and more constrained, requiring less interpretation
and allowing less variation.

RFC 7540 does not deﬁne a method that can be used by a server to provide a priority signal for
intermediaries.

RFC 7540 stream priority is expressed relative to other requests sharing the same connection at
the same time. It is diﬃcult to incorporate such a design into applications that generate requests
without knowledge of how other requests might share a connection, or into protocols that do not
have strong ordering guarantees across streams, like HTTP/3

[HTTP/3]

.

Experiments from independent research
least equivalent performance characteristics compared to the more complex RFC 7540 setups
seen in practice, at least for the Web use case.

 have shown that simpler schemes can reach at

[MARX]

2.1.  Disabling RFC 7540 Stream Priorities

The problems and insights set out above provided the motivation for an alternative to RFC 7540
stream priority (see

Section 5.3 of [HTTP/2]

).

The SETTINGS_NO_RFC7540_PRIORITIES HTTP/2 setting is deﬁned by this document in order to
allow endpoints to omit or ignore HTTP/2 priority signals (see
described below. The value of SETTINGS_NO_RFC7540_PRIORITIES
than 0 or 1
PROTOCOL_ERROR. The initial value is 0.

 be treated as a connection error (see

Section 5.3.2 of [HTTP/2]

Section 5.4.1 of [HTTP/2]

) of type

 be 0 or 1. Any value other

MUST

MUST

), as

If endpoints use SETTINGS_NO_RFC7540_PRIORITIES, they
frame. Senders
SETTINGS frame. Receivers that detect a change
PROTOCOL_ERROR.

MUST NOT

MAY

 send it in the ﬁrst SETTINGS
 change the SETTINGS_NO_RFC7540_PRIORITIES value after the ﬁrst

MUST

 treat it as a connection error of type

Clients can send SETTINGS_NO_RFC7540_PRIORITIES with a value of 1 to indicate that they are
not using HTTP/2 priority signals. The SETTINGS frame precedes any HTTP/2 priority signal sent
from clients, so servers can determine whether they need to allocate any resources to signal
handling before signals arrive. A server that receives SETTINGS_NO_RFC7540_PRIORITIES with a
value of 1

 ignore HTTP/2 priority signals.

MUST

Servers can send SETTINGS_NO_RFC7540_PRIORITIES with a value of 1 to indicate that they will
ignore HTTP/2 priority signals sent by clients.

Oku & Pardue

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9218

HTTP Priorities

June 2022

Endpoints that send SETTINGS_NO_RFC7540_PRIORITIES are encouraged to use alternative
priority signals (for example, see Section 5 or Section 7.1), but there is no requirement to use a
speciﬁc signal type.

2.1.1.  Advice when Using Extensible Priorities as the Alternative

Before receiving a SETTINGS frame from a server, a client does not know if the server is ignoring
HTTP/2 priority signals. Therefore, until the client receives the SETTINGS frame from the server,
the client
scheme (see Sections 5 and 7.1).

 send both the HTTP/2 priority signals and the signals of this prioritization

SHOULD

Once the client receives the ﬁrst SETTINGS frame that contains the
 stop sending the
SETTINGS_NO_RFC7540_PRIORITIES parameter with a value of 1, it
HTTP/2 priority signals. This avoids sending redundant signals that are known to be ignored.

SHOULD

Similarly, if the client receives SETTINGS_NO_RFC7540_PRIORITIES with a value of 0 or if the
settings parameter was absent, it
since those frames are likely to be ignored. However, the client
header ﬁeld (Section 5), as it is an end-to-end signal that might be useful to nodes behind the
server that the client is directly connected to.

 stop sending PRIORITY_UPDATE frames (Section 7.1),

 continue sending the Priority

SHOULD

MAY

3.  Applicability of the Extensible Priority Scheme

Section 3.4 of [HTTP]

The priority scheme deﬁned by this document is primarily focused on the prioritization of HTTP
). It deﬁnes new priority parameters (Section 4) and
response messages (see
a means of conveying those parameters (Sections 5 and 7), which is intended to communicate the
priority of responses to a server that is responsible for prioritizing them. Section 10 provides
considerations for servers about acting on those signals in combination with other inputs and
factors.

The CONNECT method (see
applies similarly to tunnels; additional considerations for server prioritization are given in
Section 11.

) can be used to establish tunnels. Signaling

Section 9.3.6 of [HTTP]

Section 9 describes how clients can optionally apply elements of this scheme locally to the
request messages that they generate.

Some forms of HTTP extensions might change HTTP/2 or HTTP/3 stream behavior or deﬁne new
data carriage mechanisms. Such extensions can themselves deﬁne how this priority scheme is to
be applied.

4.  Priority Parameters

The priority information is a sequence of key-value pairs, providing room for future extensions.
Each key-value pair represents a priority parameter.

Oku & Pardue

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9218

HTTP Priorities

June 2022

The Priority HTTP header ﬁeld (Section 5) is an end-to-end way to transmit this set of priority
parameters when a request or a response is issued. After sending a request, a client can change
their view of response priority (Section 6) by sending HTTP-version-speciﬁc PRIORITY_UPDATE
frames as deﬁned in Sections 7.1 and 7.2. Frames transmit priority parameters on a single hop
only.

Intermediaries can consume and produce priority signals in a PRIORITY_UPDATE frame or
Priority header ﬁeld. An intermediary that passes only the Priority request header ﬁeld to the
next hop preserves the original end-to-end signal from the client; see Section 14. An intermediary
could pass the Priority header ﬁeld and additionally send a PRIORITY_UPDATE frame. This would
have the eﬀect of preserving the original client end-to-end signal, while instructing the next hop
to use a diﬀerent priority, per the guidance in Section 7. An intermediary that replaces or adds a
Priority request header ﬁeld overrides the original client end-to-end signal, which can aﬀect
prioritization for all subsequent recipients of the request.

For both the Priority header ﬁeld and the PRIORITY_UPDATE frame, the set of priority parameters
is encoded as a Dictionary (see

Section 3.2 of [STRUCTURED-FIELDS]

).

This document deﬁnes the urgency (u) and incremental (i) priority parameters. When receiving
an HTTP request that does not carry these priority parameters, a server
default values were speciﬁed.

 act as if their

SHOULD

An intermediary can combine signals from requests and responses that it forwards. Note that
omission of priority parameters in responses is handled diﬀerently from omission in requests;
see Section 8.

Receivers parse the Dictionary as described in
Dictionary is successfully parsed, this document places the additional requirement that unknown
priority parameters, priority parameters with out-of-range values, or values of unexpected types
MUST

Section 4.2 of [STRUCTURED-FIELDS]

. Where the

 be ignored.

4.1.  Urgency

The urgency (u) parameter value is Integer (see
0 and 7 inclusive, in descending order of priority. The default is 3.

Section 3.3.1 of [STRUCTURED-FIELDS]

), between

Endpoints use this parameter to communicate their view of the precedence of HTTP responses.
The chosen value of urgency can be based on the expectation that servers might use this
information to transmit HTTP responses in the order of their urgency. The smaller the value, the
higher the precedence.

The following example shows a request for a CSS ﬁle with the urgency set to 0:

:method = GET
:scheme = https
:authority = example.net
:path = /style.css
priority = u=0

Oku & Pardue

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9218

HTTP Priorities

June 2022

A client that fetches a document that likely consists of multiple HTTP resources (e.g., HTML)
SHOULD
reﬁne the urgency using knowledge speciﬁc to the website (see Section 8).

 assign the default urgency level to the main resource. This convention allows servers to

The lowest urgency level (7) is reserved for background tasks such as delivery of software
updates. This urgency level
user interaction.

 be used for fetching responses that have any impact on

SHOULD NOT

4.2.  Incremental

Section 3.3.6 of [STRUCTURED-FIELDS]
The incremental (i) parameter value is Boolean (see
indicates if an HTTP response can be processed incrementally, i.e., provide some meaningful
output as chunks of the response arrive.

). It

The default value of the incremental parameter is false (0).

If a client makes concurrent requests with the incremental parameter set to false, there is no
beneﬁt in serving responses with the same urgency concurrently because the client is not going
to process those responses incrementally. Serving non-incremental responses with the same
urgency one by one, in the order in which those requests were generated, is considered to be the
best strategy.

If a client makes concurrent requests with the incremental parameter set to true, serving
requests with the same urgency concurrently might be beneﬁcial. Doing this distributes the
connection bandwidth, meaning that responses take longer to complete. Incremental delivery is
most useful where multiple partial responses might provide some value to clients ahead of a
complete response being available.

The following example shows a request for a JPEG ﬁle with the urgency parameter set to 5 and the
incremental parameter set to true.

:method = GET
:scheme = https
:authority = example.net
:path = /image.jpg
priority = u=5, i

4.3.  Deﬁning New Priority Parameters

When attempting to deﬁne new priority parameters, care must be taken so that they do not
adversely interfere with prioritization performed by existing endpoints or intermediaries that do
not understand the newly deﬁned priority parameters. Since unknown priority parameters are
ignored, new priority parameters should not change the interpretation of, or modify, the urgency
(see Section 4.1) or incremental (see Section 4.2) priority parameters in a way that is not
backwards compatible or fallback safe.

Oku & Pardue

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9218

HTTP Priorities

June 2022

For example, if there is a need to provide more granularity than eight urgency levels, it would be
possible to subdivide the range using an additional priority parameter. Implementations that do
not recognize the parameter can safely continue to use the less granular eight levels.

Alternatively, the urgency can be augmented. For example, a graphical user agent could send a
visible priority parameter to indicate if the resource being requested is within the viewport.

Generic priority parameters are preferred over vendor-speciﬁc, application-speciﬁc, or
deployment-speciﬁc values. If a generic value cannot be agreed upon in the community, the
parameter's name should be correspondingly speciﬁc (e.g., with a preﬁx that identiﬁes the
vendor, application, or deployment).

4.3.1.  Registration

New priority parameters can be deﬁned by registering them in the "HTTP Priority" registry. This
registry governs the keys (short textual strings) used in the Dictionary (see
[STRUCTURED-FIELDS]
value in having short key lengths, especially single-character strings. In order to encourage
extensions while avoiding unintended conﬂict among attractive key values, the "HTTP Priority"
registry operates two registration policies, depending on key length.

). Since each HTTP request can have associated priority signals, there is

Section 3.2 of

•

Registration requests for priority parameters with a key length of one use the Speciﬁcation
.
Required policy, per

Section 4.6 of [RFC8126]

•

Registration requests for priority parameters with a key length greater than one use the
Expert Review policy, per
but not required.

. A speciﬁcation document is appreciated

Section 4.5 of [RFC8126]

When reviewing registration requests, the designated expert(s) can consider the additional
guidance provided in Section 4.3 but cannot use it as a basis for rejection.

Registration requests should use the following template:

Name:

[a name for the priority parameter that matches the parameter key]

Description:

[a description of the priority parameter semantics and value]

Reference:

[to a speciﬁcation deﬁning this priority parameter]

See the registry at
registration requests.

<https://www.iana.org/assignments/http-priority>

 for details on where to send

5.  The Priority HTTP Header Field

The Priority HTTP header ﬁeld is a Dictionary that carries priority parameters (see Section 4). It
can appear in requests and responses. It is an end-to-end signal that indicates the endpoint's view
of how HTTP responses should be prioritized. Section 8 describes how intermediaries can
combine the priority information sent from clients and servers. Clients cannot interpret the

Oku & Pardue

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9218

HTTP Priorities

June 2022

appearance or omission of a Priority response header ﬁeld as acknowledgement that any
prioritization has occurred. Guidance for how endpoints can act on Priority header values is
given in Sections 9 and 10.

[CACHING]

. When an origin server generates the Priority response header ﬁeld based on

An HTTP request with a Priority header ﬁeld might be cached and reused for subsequent requests;
see
properties of an HTTP request it receives, the server is expected to control the cacheability or the
applicability of the cached response by using header ﬁelds that control the caching behavior (e.g.,
Cache-Control, Vary).

6.  Reprioritization

After a client sends a request, it may be beneﬁcial to change the priority of the response. As an
example, a web browser might issue a prefetch request for a JavaScript ﬁle with the urgency
parameter of the Priority request header ﬁeld set to u=7 (background). Then, when the user
navigates to a page that references the new JavaScript ﬁle, while the prefetch is in progress, the
browser would send a reprioritization signal with the Priority Field Value set to u=0. The
PRIORITY_UPDATE frame (Section 7) can be used for such reprioritization.

7.  The PRIORITY_UPDATE Frame

 and HTTP/3
. It carries priority parameters and references the target of the prioritization based on a

This document speciﬁes a new PRIORITY_UPDATE frame for HTTP/2
3]
version-speciﬁc identiﬁer. In HTTP/2, this identiﬁer is the stream ID; in HTTP/3, the identiﬁer is
either the stream ID or push ID. Unlike the Priority header ﬁeld, the PRIORITY_UPDATE frame is a
hop-by-hop signal.

[HTTP/2]

[HTTP/

PRIORITY_UPDATE frames are sent by clients on the control stream, allowing them to be sent
independently of the stream that carries the response. This means they can be used to reprioritize
a response or a push stream, or to signal the initial priority of a response instead of the Priority
header ﬁeld.

A PRIORITY_UPDATE frame communicates a complete set of all priority parameters in the
Priority Field Value ﬁeld. Omitting a priority parameter is a signal to use its default value. Failure
to parse the Priority Field Value
type PROTOCOL_ERROR; in HTTP/3, the error is of type H3_GENERAL_PROTOCOL_ERROR.

 be treated as a connection error. In HTTP/2, the error is of

MAY

MAY

 send a PRIORITY_UPDATE frame before the stream that it references is open (except

A client
for HTTP/2 push streams; see Section 7.1). Furthermore, HTTP/3 oﬀers no guaranteed ordering
across streams, which could cause the frame to be received earlier than intended. Either case
leads to a race condition where a server receives a PRIORITY_UPDATE frame that references a
request stream that is yet to be opened. To solve this condition, for the purposes of scheduling, the
most recently received PRIORITY_UPDATE frame can be considered as the most up-to-date
information that overrides any other signal. Servers
PRIORITY_UPDATE frame and apply it once the referenced stream is opened. Holding
PRIORITY_UPDATE frames for each stream requires server resources, which can be bounded by

 buﬀer the most recently received

SHOULD

Oku & Pardue

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9218

HTTP Priorities

June 2022

local implementation policy. Although there is no limit to the number of PRIORITY_UPDATE
frames that can be sent, storing only the most recently received frame limits resource
commitment.

7.1.  HTTP/2 PRIORITY_UPDATE Frame

The HTTP/2 PRIORITY_UPDATE frame (type=0x10) is used by clients to signal the initial priority of
a response, or to reprioritize a response or push stream. It carries the stream ID of the response
and the priority in ASCII text, using the same representation as the Priority header ﬁeld value.

The Stream Identiﬁer ﬁeld (see
MUST
treated as a connection error of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.

Section 5.1.1 of [HTTP/2]

 be zero (0x0). Receiving a PRIORITY_UPDATE frame with a ﬁeld of any other value

) in the PRIORITY_UPDATE frame header
 be

MUST

HTTP/2 PRIORITY_UPDATE Frame {
  Length (24),
  Type (8) = 0x10,

  Unused Flags (8),

  Reserved (1),
  Stream Identifier (31),

  Reserved (1),
  Prioritized Stream ID (31),
  Priority Field Value (..),
}

Figure 1: HTTP/2 PRIORITY_UPDATE Frame Format

The Length, Type, Unused Flag(s), Reserved, and Stream Identiﬁer ﬁelds are described in
of [HTTP/2]

. The PRIORITY_UPDATE frame payload contains the following additional ﬁelds:

Section 4

Prioritized Stream ID:

A 31-bit stream identiﬁer for the stream that is the target of the priority

update.

Priority Field Value:

The priority update value in ASCII text, encoded using Structured Fields.

This is the same representation as the Priority header ﬁeld value.

When the PRIORITY_UPDATE frame applies to a request stream, clients
prioritized stream ID that refers to a stream in the "open", "half-closed (local)", or "idle" state (i.e.,
streams where data might still be received). Servers can discard frames where the prioritized
stream ID refers to a stream in the "half-closed (local)" or "closed" state (i.e., streams where no
further data will be sent). The number of streams that have been prioritized but remain in the
"idle" state plus the number of active streams (those in the "open" state or in either of the "half-
closed" states; see
SETTINGS_MAX_CONCURRENT_STREAMS parameter. Servers that receive such a
PRIORITY_UPDATE

 respond with a connection error of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.

Section 5.1.2 of [HTTP/2] MUST NOT

 exceed the value of the

 provide a

SHOULD

MUST

)

Oku & Pardue

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9218

HTTP Priorities

June 2022

When the PRIORITY_UPDATE frame applies to a push stream, clients
prioritized stream ID that refers to a stream in the "reserved (remote)" or "half-closed (local)"
state. Servers can discard frames where the prioritized stream ID refers to a stream in the "closed"
state. Clients
state. Servers that receive a PRIORITY_UPDATE for a push stream in the "idle" state
with a connection error of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.

 provide a prioritized stream ID that refers to a push stream in the "idle"

 provide a

MUST NOT

 respond

SHOULD

MUST

If a PRIORITY_UPDATE frame is received with a prioritized stream ID of 0x0, the recipient
respond with a connection error of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.

MUST

Servers
frame, it

MUST NOT

 send PRIORITY_UPDATE frames. If a client receives a PRIORITY_UPDATE

MUST

 respond with a connection error of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.

7.2.  HTTP/3 PRIORITY_UPDATE Frame

The HTTP/3 PRIORITY_UPDATE frame (type=0xF0700 or 0xF0701) is used by clients to signal the
initial priority of a response, or to reprioritize a response or push stream. It carries the identiﬁer
of the element that is being prioritized and the updated priority in ASCII text that uses the same
representation as that of the Priority header ﬁeld value. PRIORITY_UPDATE with a frame type of
0xF0700 is used for request streams, while PRIORITY_UPDATE with a frame type of 0xF0701 is used
for push streams.

The PRIORITY_UPDATE frame
[HTTP/3]
MUST

). Receiving a PRIORITY_UPDATE frame on a stream other than the client control stream

MUST

 be sent on the client control stream (see

Section 6.2.1 of

 be treated as a connection error of type H3_FRAME_UNEXPECTED.

HTTP/3 PRIORITY_UPDATE Frame {
  Type (i) = 0xF0700..0xF0701,
  Length (i),
  Prioritized Element ID (i),
  Priority Field Value (..),
}

Figure 2: HTTP/3 PRIORITY_UPDATE Frame

The PRIORITY_UPDATE frame payload has the following ﬁelds:

Prioritized Element ID:

The stream ID or push ID that is the target of the priority update.

Priority Field Value:

The priority update value in ASCII text, encoded using Structured Fields.

This is the same representation as the Priority header ﬁeld value.

 reference a request
The request-stream variant of PRIORITY_UPDATE (type=0xF0700)
stream. If a server receives a PRIORITY_UPDATE (type=0xF0700) for a stream ID that is not a
request stream, this
 be within the client-initiated bidirectional stream limit. If a server receives a
MUST
PRIORITY_UPDATE (type=0xF0700) with a stream ID that is beyond the stream limits, this

 be treated as a connection error of type H3_ID_ERROR. The stream ID

MUST

MUST

SHOULD

Oku & Pardue

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9218

HTTP Priorities

June 2022

be treated as a connection error of type H3_ID_ERROR. Generating an error is not mandatory
because HTTP/3 implementations might have practical barriers to determining the active stream
concurrency limit that is applied by the QUIC layer.

The push-stream variant of PRIORITY_UPDATE (type=0xF0701)
stream. If a server receives a PRIORITY_UPDATE (type=0xF0701) with a push ID that is greater
than the maximum push ID or that has not yet been promised, this
connection error of type H3_ID_ERROR.

 be treated as a

 reference a promised push

MUST

MUST

MUST NOT

Servers
PRIORITY_UPDATE frame, this
H3_FRAME_UNEXPECTED.

 send PRIORITY_UPDATE frames of either type. If a client receives a

MUST

 be treated as a connection error of type

8.  Merging Client- and Server-Driven Priority Parameters

It is not always the case that the client has the best understanding of how the HTTP responses
deserve to be prioritized. The server might have additional information that can be combined
with the client's indicated priority in order to improve the prioritization of the response. For
example, use of an HTML document might depend heavily on one of the inline images; the
existence of such dependencies is typically best known to the server. Or, a server that receives
requests for a font
the font, so that a visual client can render textual information at an early moment.

 and images with the same urgency might give higher precedence to

[RFC8081]

An origin can use the Priority response header ﬁeld to indicate its view on how an HTTP response
should be prioritized. An intermediary that forwards an HTTP response can use the priority
parameters found in the Priority response header ﬁeld, in combination with the client Priority
request header ﬁeld, as input to its prioritization process. No guidance is provided for merging
priorities; this is left as an implementation decision.

The absence of a priority parameter in an HTTP response indicates the server's disinterest in
changing the client-provided value. This is diﬀerent from the request header ﬁeld, in which
omission of a priority parameter implies the use of its default value (see Section 4).

As a non-normative example, when the client sends an HTTP request with the urgency parameter
set to 5 and the incremental parameter set to true

:method = GET
:scheme = https
:authority = example.net
:path = /menu.png
priority = u=5, i

and the origin responds with

:status = 200
content-type = image/png
priority = u=1

Oku & Pardue

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9218

HTTP Priorities

June 2022

the intermediary might alter its understanding of the urgency from 5 to 1, because it prefers the
server-provided value over the client's. The incremental value continues to be true, i.e., the value
speciﬁed by the client, as the server did not specify the incremental (i) parameter.

9.  Client Scheduling

MAY

A client
it initiates.

 use priority values to make local processing or scheduling choices about the requests

10.  Server Scheduling

It is generally beneﬁcial for an HTTP server to send all responses as early as possible. However,
when serving multiple requests on a single connection, there could be competition between the
requests for resources such as connection bandwidth. This section describes considerations
regarding how servers can schedule the order in which the competing responses will be sent when
such competition exists.

Server scheduling is a prioritization process based on many inputs, with priority signals being
only one form of input. Factors such as implementation choices or deployment environment also
play a role. Any given connection is likely to have many dynamic permutations. For these
reasons, it is not possible to describe a universal scheduling algorithm. This document provides
some basic, non-exhaustive recommendations for how servers might act on priority parameters.
It does not describe in detail how servers might combine priority signals with other factors.
Endpoints cannot depend on particular treatment based on priority signals. Expressing priority
is only a suggestion.

RECOMMENDED

It is
sending higher-urgency responses before lower-urgency responses.

 that, when possible, servers respect the urgency parameter (Section 4.1),

The incremental parameter indicates how a client processes response bytes as they arrive. It is
RECOMMENDED

 that, when possible, servers respect the incremental parameter (Section 4.2).

Non-incremental responses of the same urgency
 be served by prioritizing bandwidth
allocation in ascending order of the stream ID, which corresponds to the order in which clients
make requests. Doing so ensures that clients can use request ordering to inﬂuence response
order.

SHOULD

Incremental responses of the same urgency
SHOULD
them. The message content of incremental responses is used as parts, or chunks, are received. A
client might beneﬁt more from receiving a portion of all these resources rather than the entirety
of a single resource. How large a portion of the resource is needed to be useful in improving
performance varies. Some resource types place critical elements early; others can use
information progressively. This scheme provides no explicit mandate about how a server should
use size, type, or any other input to decide how to prioritize.

 be served by sharing bandwidth among

Oku & Pardue

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9218

HTTP Priorities

June 2022

There can be scenarios where a server will need to schedule multiple incremental and non-
incremental responses at the same urgency level. Strictly abiding by the scheduling guidance
based on urgency and request generation order might lead to suboptimal results at the client, as
early non-incremental responses might prevent the serving of incremental responses issued
later. The following are examples of such challenges:

1.

At the same urgency level, a non-incremental request for a large resource followed by an
incremental request for a small resource.

2.

At the same urgency level, an incremental request of indeterminate length followed by a
non-incremental large resource.

RECOMMENDED

It is
an implementation decision. For example, a server might preemptively send responses of a
particular incremental type based on other information such as content size.

 that servers avoid such starvation where possible. The method for doing so is

Optimal scheduling of server push is diﬃcult, especially when pushed resources contend with
active concurrent requests. Servers can consider many factors when scheduling, such as the type
or size of resource being pushed, the priority of the request that triggered the push, the count of
active concurrent responses, the priority of other active concurrent responses, etc. There is no
general guidance on the best way to apply these. A server that is too simple could easily push at
too high a priority and block client requests, or push at too low a priority and delay the response,
negating intended goals of server push.

Priority signals are a factor for server push scheduling. The concept of parameter value defaults
applies slightly diﬀerently because there is no explicit client-signaled initial priority. A server can
apply priority signals provided in an origin response; see the merging guidance given in Section 8.
In the absence of origin signals, applying default parameter values could be suboptimal. By
whatever means a server decides to schedule a pushed response, it can signal the intended
priority to the client by including the Priority ﬁeld in a PUSH_PROMISE or HEADERS frame.

10.1.  Intermediaries with Multiple Backend Connections

An intermediary serving an HTTP connection might split requests over multiple backend
connections. When it applies prioritization rules strictly, low-priority requests cannot make
progress while requests with higher priorities are in ﬂight. This blocking can propagate to backend
connections, which the peer might interpret as a connection stall. Endpoints often implement
protections against stalls, such as abruptly closing connections after a certain time period. To
reduce the possibility of this occurring, intermediaries can avoid strictly following prioritization
and instead allocate small amounts of bandwidth for all the requests that they are forwarding, so
that every request can make some progress over time.

Similarly, servers

SHOULD

 allocate some amount of bandwidths to streams acting as tunnels.

Oku & Pardue

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9218

HTTP Priorities

June 2022

11.  Scheduling and the CONNECT Method

When a stream carries a CONNECT request, the scheduling guidance in this document applies to
the frames on the stream. A client that issues multiple CONNECT requests can set the incremental
parameter to true. Servers that implement the recommendations for handling of the
incremental parameter (Section 10) are likely to schedule these fairly, preventing one CONNECT
stream from blocking others.

12.  Retransmission Scheduling

Transport protocols such as TCP and QUIC provide reliability by detecting packet losses and
retransmitting lost information. In addition to the considerations in Section 10, scheduling of
retransmission data could compete with new data. The remainder of this section discusses
considerations when using QUIC.

SHOULD

 states the following: "Endpoints

 prioritize retransmission of data

Section 13.3 of [QUIC]
over sending new data, unless priorities speciﬁed by the application indicate otherwise". When an
HTTP/3 application uses the priority scheme deﬁned in this document and the QUIC transport
implementation supports application-indicated stream priority, a transport that considers the
relative priority of streams when scheduling both new data and retransmission data might better
match the expectations of the application. However, there are no requirements on how a
transport chooses to schedule based on this information because the decision depends on several
factors and trade-oﬀs. It could prioritize new data for a higher-urgency stream over
retransmission data for a lower-priority stream, or it could prioritize retransmission data over
new data irrespective of urgencies.

Section 6.2.4 of [QUIC-RECOVERY]
when sending probe packets after Probe Timeout timer expiration. A QUIC implementation
supporting application-indicated priorities might use the relative priority of streams when
choosing probe data.

 also highlights considerations regarding application priorities

13.  Fairness

Typically, HTTP implementations depend on the underlying transport to maintain fairness
between connections competing for bandwidth. When an intermediary receives HTTP requests
on client connections, it forwards them to backend connections. Depending on how the
intermediary coalesces or splits requests across diﬀerent backend connections, diﬀerent clients
might experience dissimilar performance. This dissimilarity might expand if the intermediary
also uses priority signals when forwarding requests. Sections 13.1 and 13.2 discuss mitigations of
this expansion of unfairness.

Conversely, Section 13.3 discusses how servers might intentionally allocate unequal bandwidth to
some connections, depending on the priority signals.

Oku & Pardue

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9218

HTTP Priorities

June 2022

13.1.  Coalescing Intermediaries

When an intermediary coalesces HTTP requests coming from multiple clients into one HTTP/2 or
HTTP/3 connection going to the backend server, requests that originate from one client might
carry signals indicating higher priority than those coming from others.

It is sometimes beneﬁcial for the server running behind an intermediary to obey Priority header
ﬁeld values. As an example, a resource-constrained server might defer the transmission of
software update ﬁles that have the background urgency level (7). However, in the worst case, the
asymmetry between the priority declared by multiple clients might cause all responses going to
one user agent to be delayed until all responses going to another user agent have been sent.

In order to mitigate this fairness problem, a server could use knowledge about the intermediary
as another input in its prioritization decisions. For instance, if a server knows the intermediary is
coalescing requests, then it could avoid serving the responses in their entirety and instead
distribute bandwidth (for example, in a round-robin manner). This can work if the constrained
resource is network capacity between the intermediary and the user agent, as the intermediary
buﬀers responses and forwards the chunks based on the prioritization scheme it implements.

A server can determine if a request came from an intermediary through conﬁguration or can
check to see if the request contains one of the following header ﬁelds:

•

Forwarded

[FORWARDED]

, X-Forwarded-For

•

Via (see

Section 7.6.3 of [HTTP]

)

13.2.  HTTP/1.x Back Ends

It is common for Content Delivery Network (CDN) infrastructure to support diﬀerent HTTP
versions on the front end and back end. For instance, the client-facing edge might support HTTP/2
and HTTP/3 while communication to backend servers is done using HTTP/1.1. Unlike connection
coalescing, the CDN will "demux" requests into discrete connections to the back end. Response
multiplexing in a single connection is not supported by HTTP/1.1 (or older), so there is not a
fairness problem. However, backend servers
Backend servers
information can be scoped to individual end clients. Authentication and other session
information might provide this linkability.

 only schedule based on client priority information where that

 still use client headers for request scheduling.

SHOULD

MAY

13.3.  Intentional Introduction of Unfairness

It is sometimes beneﬁcial to deprioritize the transmission of one connection over others,
knowing that doing so introduces a certain amount of unfairness between the connections and
therefore between the requests served on those connections.

For example, a server might use a scavenging congestion controller on connections that only
convey background priority responses such as software update images. Doing so improves
responsiveness of other connections at the cost of delaying the delivery of updates.

Oku & Pardue

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9218

HTTP Priorities

June 2022

14.  Why Use an End-to-End Header Field?

In contrast to the prioritization scheme of HTTP/2, which uses a hop-by-hop frame, the Priority
header ﬁeld is deﬁned as "end-to-end".

The way that a client processes a response is a property associated with the client generating that
request, not that of an intermediary. Therefore, it is an end-to-end property. How these end-to-end
properties carried by the Priority header ﬁeld aﬀect the prioritization between the responses that
share a connection is a hop-by-hop issue.

Having the Priority header ﬁeld deﬁned as end-to-end is important for caching intermediaries.
Such intermediaries can cache the value of the Priority header ﬁeld along with the response and
utilize the value of the cached header ﬁeld when serving the cached response, only because the
header ﬁeld is deﬁned as end-to-end rather than hop-by-hop.

15.  Security Considerations

Section 7 describes considerations for server buﬀering of PRIORITY_UPDATE frames.

Section 10 presents examples where servers that prioritize responses in a certain way might be
starved of the ability to transmit responses.

The security considerations from
parameters deﬁned in Section 4.

[STRUCTURED-FIELDS]

 apply to the processing of priority

16.  IANA Considerations

This speciﬁcation registers the following entry in the "Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) Field
Name Registry" deﬁned in

[HTTP/2]

:

Field Name:

Priority

Status:

permanent

Reference:

This document

This speciﬁcation registers the following entry in the "HTTP/2 Settings" registry deﬁned in
2]

:

[HTTP/

Code:

0x9

Name:

SETTINGS_NO_RFC7540_PRIORITIES

Initial Value:

0

Oku & Pardue

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9218

HTTP Priorities

June 2022

Reference:

This document

This speciﬁcation registers the following entry in the "HTTP/2 Frame Type" registry deﬁned in
[HTTP/2]

:

Code:

0x10

Frame Type:

PRIORITY_UPDATE

Reference:

This document

This speciﬁcation registers the following entry in the "HTTP/3 Frame Types" registry established
by

[HTTP/3]

:

Value:

0xF0700-0xF0701

Frame Type:

PRIORITY_UPDATE

Status:

permanent

Reference:

This document

Change Controller:

IETF

Contact:

ietf-http-wg@w3.org

IANA has created the "Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) Priority" registry at
www.iana.org/assignments/http-priority>
Section 4.3.1 for its associated procedures.

 and has populated it with the entries in Table 1; see

<https://

Name

u

i

Description

Reference

The urgency of an HTTP response.

Section 4.1

Whether an HTTP response can be processed incrementally.

Section 4.2

Table 1: Initial Priority Parameters

17.  References

17.1.  Normative References

[HTTP]

[HTTP/2]

,

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
97 RFC 9110 DOI 10.17487/RFC9110
.
rfc9110>

,

,

, and
, June 2022,

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP Semantics" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

Thomson, M., Ed.
June 2022,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9113>

 and

,
C. Benﬁeld, Ed. "HTTP/2" RFC 9113 DOI 10.17487/RFC9113

,

,

,

Oku & Pardue

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9218

HTTP Priorities

June 2022

[HTTP/3]

[QUIC]

[RFC2119]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

Bishop, M., Ed. "HTTP/3" RFC 9114 DOI 10.17487/RFC9114
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9114>
.

,

,

,

, June 2022,

<https://

 and

Iyengar, J., Ed.
Transport" RFC 9000 DOI 10.17487/RFC9000
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc9000>
.

M. Thomson, Ed. "QUIC: A UDP-Based Multiplexed and Secure
, May 2021,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
,
rfc2119>
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>
.

, and

,

,

,

,

, June

,
,
Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
.
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

[STRUCTURED-FIELDS]

Nottingham, M.

 and
,
RFC 8941 DOI 10.17487/RFC8941
.
rfc8941>

,
P-H. Kamp "Structured Field Values for HTTP"
, February 2021,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

17.2.  Informative References

[CACHING]

[FORWARDED]

[MARX]

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
,
RFC 9111 DOI 10.17487/RFC9111
,
.
rfc9111>

, and
, June 2022,

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP Caching" STD 98
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

Petersson, A.

 and

10.17487/RFC7239

M. Nilsson "Forwarded HTTP Extension" RFC 7239 DOI

,
,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7239>

, June 2014,

,

,

,

, and

W. Lamotte "Of the Utmost Importance:
Marx, R. De Decker, T. Quax, P.
Resource Prioritization in HTTP/3 over QUIC" SCITEPRESS Proceedings of the
15th International Conference on Web Information Systems and Technologies
(pages 130-143) DOI 10.5220/0008191701300143
.
www.doi.org/10.5220/0008191701300143>

, September 2019,

<https://

,

,

,

[PRIORITY-SETTING]

Lassey, B.
,

 and

L. Pardue "Declaring Support for HTTP/2 Priorities" Work
<https://

, 25 July 2019,

,

,

in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-lassey-priority-setting-00
.
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-lassey-priority-setting-00>

[QUIC-RECOVERY]

I. Swett, Ed. "QUIC Loss Detection and Congestion

, May 2021,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

 and
Iyengar, J., Ed.
,
Control" RFC 9002 DOI 10.17487/RFC9002
.
info/rfc9002>

,

,

,
, and
,
Belshe, M. Peon, R.
,
,
(HTTP/2)" RFC 7540 DOI 10.17487/RFC7540
.
editor.org/info/rfc7540>

[RFC7540]

M. Thomson, Ed. "Hypertext Transfer Protocol Version 2

, May 2015,

<https://www.rfc-

Oku & Pardue

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9218

HTTP Priorities

June 2022

[RFC8081]

Lilley, C. "The "font" Top-Level Media Type" RFC 8081 DOI 10.17487/RFC8081
,
,
February 2017,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8081>
.

,

,

Acknowledgements

 presented the idea of using a header ﬁeld for representing priorities in

Roy Fielding
www.ietf.org/proceedings/83/slides/slides-83-httpbis-5.pdf>
prioritization-proposal> Patrick Meenan
of urgency and concurrency. The ability to disable HTTP/2 prioritization is inspired by
SETTING]
was not incorporated into an update to that document.

[PRIORITY-
, with modiﬁcations based on feedback that

 advocated for representing the priorities using a tuple

<https://github.com/pmeenan/http3-

, authored by

Lucas Pardue

Brad Lassey

<https://

 and

. In

,

The motivation for deﬁning an alternative to HTTP/2 priorities is drawn from discussion within
the broad HTTP community. Special thanks to
text that was incorporated explicitly in this document.

Roberto Peon Martin Thomson

, and Netﬂix for

,

In addition to the people above, this document owes a lot to the extensive discussion in the HTTP
priority design team, consisting of
,
Matthew Cox Mike Bishop Roberto Peon Robin Marx Roy Fielding
document.

,
, and the authors of this

Alan Frindell Andrew Galloni Craig Taylor Ian Swett

,

,

,

,

,

,

Yang Chi

 contributed the section on retransmission scheduling.

Authors' Addresses

Kazuho Oku
Fastly
Email:

 kazuhooku@gmail.com

Additional contact information:

奥 一穂
Fastly

Lucas Pardue
Cloudﬂare
Email:

 lucaspardue.24.7@gmail.com

Oku & Pardue

Standards Track

Page 21

