Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9303
Standards Track
October 2022
2070-1721
F. Maino
Cisco Systems

V. Ermagan
Google, Inc.

A. Cabellos
Universitat Politecnica de Catalunya

D. Saucez
Inria

RFC 9303
Locator/ID Separation Protocol Security (LISP-SEC)

Abstract

This memo specifies Locator/ID Separation Protocol Security (LISP-SEC), a set of security
mechanisms that provides origin authentication, integrity, and anti-replay protection to the
LISP's Endpoint-ID-to-Routing-Locator (EID-to-RLOC) mapping data conveyed via the mapping
lookup process. LISP-SEC also enables verification of authorization on EID-Prefix claims in Map-
Reply messages.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9303
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Maino, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9303

LISP-SEC

October 2022

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Requirements Notation

3.  Definitions of Terms

4.  LISP-SEC Threat Model

5.  Protocol Operations

6.  LISP-SEC Control Messages Details

6.1.  Encapsulated Control Message LISP-SEC Extensions

6.2.  Map-Reply LISP-SEC Extensions

6.3.  Map-Register LISP-SEC Extensions

6.4.  ITR Processing: Generating a Map-Request

6.5.  Encrypting and Decrypting an OTK

6.5.1.  Unencrypted OTK

6.6.  Map-Resolver Processing

6.7.  Map-Server Processing

6.7.1.  Generating a LISP-SEC-Protected Encapsulated Map-Request

6.7.2.  Generating a Proxy Map-Reply

6.8.  ETR Processing

6.9.  ITR Processing: Receiving a Map-Reply

6.9.1.  Map-Reply Record Validation

7.  Security Considerations

7.1.  Mapping System Security

7.2.  Random Number Generation

7.3.  Map-Server and ETR Colocation

7.4.  Deploying LISP-SEC

7.5.  Shared Keys Provisioning

7.6.  Replay Attacks

7.7.  Message Privacy

7.8.  Denial-of-Service and Distributed Denial-of-Service Attacks

Maino, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9303

LISP-SEC

October 2022

8.  IANA Considerations

8.1.  ECM AD Type Registry

8.2.  Map-Reply AD Types Registry

8.3.  HMAC Functions

8.4.  Key Wrap Functions

8.5.  Key Derivation Functions

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

[RFC9300] [RFC9301]

 is a network-layer-based protocol

The Locator/ID Separation Protocol (LISP)
that enables separation of IP addresses into two new numbering spaces: Endpoint Identifiers
(EIDs) and Routing Locators (RLOCs). EID-to-RLOC mappings are stored in a database and the
LISP Mapping System, and they are made available via the Map-Request/Map-Reply lookup
process. If these EID-to-RLOC mappings, carried through Map-Reply messages, are transmitted
without integrity protection, an adversary can manipulate them and hijack the communication,
impersonate the requested EID, or mount Denial-of-Service (DoS) or Distributed Denial-of-Service
(DDoS) attacks. Also, if the Map-Reply message is transported unauthenticated, an adversarial
LISP entity can overclaim an EID-Prefix and maliciously redirect traffic. The LISP-SEC threat
model, described in Section 4, is built on top of the LISP threat model defined in
which includes a detailed description of an "overclaiming" attack.

[RFC7835]
,

This memo specifies LISP-SEC, a set of security mechanisms that provides origin authentication,
integrity, and anti-replay protection to LISP's EID-to-RLOC mapping data conveyed via the
mapping lookup process. LISP-SEC also enables verification of authorization on EID-Prefix claims
in Map-Reply messages, ensuring that the sender of a Map-Reply that provides the location for a
given EID-Prefix is entitled to do so according to the EID-Prefix registered in the associated Map-
Server. Map-Register/Map-Notify security, including the right for a LISP entity to register an EID-
Prefix or to claim presence at an RLOC, is out of the scope of LISP-SEC, as those protocols are
. However, LISP-SEC extends the
protected by the security mechanisms specified in
Map-Register message to allow an Ingress Tunnel Router (ITR) to downgrade to non-LISP-SEC
Map-Requests. Additional security considerations are described in Section 7.

[RFC9301]

Maino, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9303

LISP-SEC

October 2022

2.  Requirements Notation

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Definitions of Terms

One-Time Key (OTK):

An ephemeral randomly generated key that must be used for a single

Map-Request/Map-Reply exchange.

ITR One-Time Key (ITR-OTK):

The One-Time Key generated at the Ingress Tunnel Router (ITR).

MS One-Time Key (MS-OTK):

The One-Time Key generated at the Map-Server.

Authentication Data (AD):

Metadata that is included either in a LISP Encapsulated Control

Message (ECM) header as defined in
confidentiality, integrity protection, and verification of EID-Prefix authorization.

, or in a Map-Reply message to support

[RFC9301]

OTK Authentication Data (OTK-AD):

The portion of ECM Authentication Data that contains a

One-Time Key.

EID Authentication Data (EID-AD):

The portion of ECM and Map-Reply Authentication Data used

for verification of EID-Prefix authorization.

Packet Authentication Data (PKT-AD):

The portion of Map-Reply Authentication Data used to

protect the integrity of the Map-Reply message.

For definitions of other terms, notably Map-Request, Map-Reply, Ingress Tunnel Router (ITR),
Egress Tunnel Router (ETR), Map-Server (MS), and Map-Resolver (MR), please consult the LISP
specification

[RFC9301]
.

4.  LISP-SEC Threat Model

LISP-SEC addresses the control plane threats, described in Sections 3.7 and 3.8 of
, that
target EID-to-RLOC mappings, including manipulations of Map-Request and Map-Reply messages
and malicious ETR EID-Prefix overclaiming. LISP-SEC makes two main assumptions: (1) the LISP
Mapping System is expected to deliver a Map-Request message to their intended destination ETR
as identified by the EID, and (2) no on-path attack can be mounted within the LISP Mapping
System. How the Mapping System is protected from on-path attacks depends on the particular
Mapping System used and is out of the scope of this memo. Furthermore, while LISP-SEC enables
detection of EID-Prefix overclaiming attacks, it assumes that Map-Servers can verify the EID-
Prefix authorization at registration time.

[RFC7835]

Maino, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9303

LISP-SEC

October 2022

[RFC7835]

According to the threat model described in
including on-path attacks, can be mounted outside of the boundaries of the LISP Mapping
System. An on-path attacker outside of the LISP Mapping System can, for example, hijack Map-
Request and Map-Reply messages, spoofing the identity of a LISP node. Another example of an
on-path attack, called an overclaiming attack, can be mounted by a malicious ETR by
overclaiming the EID-Prefixes for which it is authoritative. In this way, the ETR can maliciously
redirect traffic.

, LISP-SEC assumes that any kind of attack,

5.  Protocol Operations

The goal of the security mechanisms defined in
mapping data by providing origin authentication and integrity protection for the Map-Register
and by using the nonce to detect an unsolicited Map-Reply sent by off-path attackers.

 is to prevent unauthorized insertion of

[RFC9301]

 participating in the exchange of the Map-Request/Map-Reply messages. Those trust

LISP-SEC builds on top of the security mechanisms defined in
described in Section 4 by leveraging the trust relationships existing among the LISP entities
[RFC9301]
relationships (see also Section 7 and
Section 8.4, a per-message One-Time Key (OTK) that provides origin authentication, integrity, and
anti-replay protection to mapping data conveyed via the mapping lookup process and that
effectively prevents overclaiming attacks. The processing of security parameters during the Map-
Request/Map-Reply exchange is as follows:

) are used to securely distribute, as described in

 to address the threats

[RFC9301]

[RFC9301]

•

Per each Map-Request message, a new ITR-OTK is generated and stored at the ITR and is
securely transported to the Map-Server.

•

[RFC2104]

The Map-Server uses the ITR-OTK to compute a Hashed Message Authentication Code
(HMAC)
to prevent overclaiming attacks. The Map-Server also derives a new OTK, the MS-OTK, that is
passed to the ETR by applying a Key Derivation Function (KDF) (e.g.,
OTK.

 that protects the integrity of the mapping data known to the Map-Server

) to the ITR-

[RFC5869]

•

The ETR uses the MS-OTK to compute an HMAC that protects the integrity of the Map-Reply
sent to the ITR.

•

Finally, the ITR uses the stored ITR-OTK to verify the integrity of the mapping data provided
by both the Map-Server and the ETR, and to verify that no overclaiming attacks were
mounted along the path between the Map-Server and the ITR.

Section 6 provides the detailed description of the LISP-SEC control messages and their
processing, while the rest of this section describes the flow of LISP protocol operations at each
entity involved in the Map-Request/Map-Reply exchange:

1.

The ITR, upon needing to transmit a Map-Request message, generates and stores an OTK
(ITR-OTK). This ITR-OTK is encrypted and included into the Encapsulated Control Message
(ECM) that contains the Map-Request sent to the Map-Resolver.

2.

The Map-Resolver decapsulates the ECM, decrypts the ITR-OTK (if needed), and forwards
through the Mapping System the received Map-Request and the ITR-OTK, as part of a new

Maino, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9303

LISP-SEC

October 2022

ECM. The LISP Mapping System delivers the ECM to the appropriate Map-Server, as
identified by the EID destination address of the Map-Request.

3.

The Map-Server is configured with the location mappings and policy information for the ETR
responsible for the EID destination address. Using this preconfigured information, the Map-
Server, after the decapsulation of the ECM, finds the longest-match EID-Prefix that covers the
requested EID in the received Map-Request. The Map-Server adds this EID-Prefix, together
with an HMAC computed using the ITR-OTK, to a new ECM that contains the received Map-
Request.

4.

The Map-Server derives a new OTK, the MS-OTK, by applying a KDF to the ITR-OTK. This MS-
OTK is included in the ECM that the Map-Server uses to forward the Map-Request to the ETR.

5.

If the Map-Server is acting in proxy mode, as specified in
in the generation of the Map-Reply and steps 6 and 7 are skipped. In this case, the Map-
Server generates the Map-Reply on behalf of the ETR, as described in Section 6.7.2.

[RFC9301]

, the ETR is not involved

6.

The ETR, upon receiving the ECM-Encapsulated Map-Request from the Map-Server, decrypts
the MS-OTK (if needed), and originates a Map-Reply that contains the EID-to-RLOC mapping
information as specified in

[RFC9301]

.

7.

The ETR computes an HMAC over the Map-Reply, keyed with MS-OTK to protect the integrity
of the whole Map-Reply. The ETR also copies the EID-Prefix authorization data that the Map-
Server included in the ECM-Encapsulated Map-Request into the Map-Reply message. The ETR
then sends the complete Map-Reply message to the requesting ITR.

8.

The ITR, upon receiving the Map-Reply, uses the locally stored ITR-OTK to verify the integrity
of the EID-Prefix authorization data included in the Map-Reply by the Map-Server. The ITR
computes the MS-OTK by applying the same KDF (as specified in the ECM-Encapsulated Map-
Reply) used by the Map-Server and verifies the integrity of the Map-Reply.

6.  LISP-SEC Control Messages Details

LISP-SEC metadata associated with a Map-Request is transported within the Encapsulated
Control Message that contains the Map-Request.

LISP-SEC metadata associated with the Map-Reply is transported within the Map-Reply itself.

These specifications use an HMAC in various places (as described in the following). The HMAC
function AUTH-HMAC-SHA-256-128
LISP-SEC deployments
communicating with older implementations that only support AUTH-HMAC-SHA-1-96

 be supported in LISP-SEC implementations.
 use the AUTH-HMAC-SHA-256-128 HMAC function, except when
[RFC2104]
.

[RFC6234] MUST

SHOULD

6.1.  Encapsulated Control Message LISP-SEC Extensions

LISP-SEC uses the ECM defined in
header includes Authentication Data (AD). The format of the LISP-SEC ECM AD is defined in
Figure 1. OTK-AD stands for One-Time Key Authentication Data and EID-AD stands for EID
Authentication Data.

 with the S-bit set to 1 to indicate that the LISP

[RFC9301]

Maino, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9303

LISP-SEC

October 2022

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|  ECM AD Type  |   Unassigned  |        Requested HMAC ID      |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+\
|              OTK Length       |     Key ID    | OTK Wrap. ID  | |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ |
|                       One-Time-Key Preamble ...               | |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+OTK-AD
|                   ... One-Time-Key Preamble                   | |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ |
~                      One-Time Key (128 bits)                  ~/
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ <---+
|           EID-AD Length       |           KDF ID              |     |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+     |
| Record Count  |E| Unassigned  |         EID HMAC ID           |EID-AD
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+\    |
|  Unassigned   | EID mask-len  |           EID-AFI             | |   |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ Rec |
~                          EID-Prefix ...                       ~ |   |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+/    |
~                            EID HMAC                           ~     |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ <---+

Figure 1: LISP-SEC ECM Authentication Data

ECM AD Type:

1 (LISP-SEC Authentication Data). See Section 8.

Unassigned:

Set to 0 on transmission and ignored on receipt.

Requested HMAC ID:

The HMAC algorithm, which will be used to protect the mappings,

requested by the ITR. Permitted values are registered in the LISP-SEC Authentication Data
HMAC ID (see Section 8.3). Refer to Section 6.4 for more details.

OTK Length:

The length (in bytes) of the OTK Authentication Data (OTK-AD), which contains the

OTK Preamble and the OTK.

Key ID:

The identifier of the pre-shared secret shared by an ITR and the Map-Resolver, and by

the Map-Server and an ETR. Per-message keys are derived from the pre-shared secret to
encrypt, authenticate the origin, and protect the integrity of the OTK. The Key ID allows to
rotate between multiple pre-shared secrets in a nondisruptive way.

OTK Wrapping ID (OTK Wrap. ID):

The identifier of the Key Derivation Function and of the key
wrapping algorithm used to encrypt the One-Time-Key. Permitted values are registered in the
LISP-SEC Authentication Data Key Wrap ID (see Section 8.4). Refer to Section 6.5 for more
details.

One-Time-Key Preamble:

Set to 0 if the OTK is not encrypted. When the OTK is encrypted, this

MAY

 carry additional metadata resulting from the key wrapping operation. When a 128-

field
bit OTK is sent unencrypted by a Map-Resolver, the OTK Preamble is set to
0x0000000000000000 (64 bits). See Section 6.5.1 for details.

Maino, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9303

LISP-SEC

October 2022

One-Time-Key:

The OTK wrapped as specified by OTK Wrapping ID. See Section 6.5 for details.

EID-AD Length:

Length (in bytes) of the EID Authentication Data (EID-AD). The ITR

MUST

 set the

EID-AD Length to 4 bytes, as it only fills the 'KDF ID' field, and all the remaining fields part of
 contain multiple EID-Records. Each EID-Record is
the EID-AD are not present. An EID-AD
4 bytes long, plus the length of the AFI-encoded EID-Prefix.

MAY

KDF ID:

Identifier of the Key Derivation Function used to derive the MS-OTK. Permitted values

are registered in the LISP-SEC Authentication Data Key Derivation Function ID (see Section
8.5). Refer to Section 6.7 for more details.

Record Count:

As defined in

Section 5.2 of [RFC9301]

.

E:

ETR-Cant-Sign bit. If this bit is set to 1, it signals to the ITR that at least one of the ETRs that is
authoritative for the EID-Prefixes of this Map-Reply has not enabled LISP-SEC. Only a Map-
Server can set this bit. See Section 6.7 for more details.

Unassigned:

Set to 0 on transmission and ignored on receipt.

EID HMAC ID:

Identifier of the HMAC algorithm used to protect the integrity of the EID-AD. This

field is filled by the Map-Server that computed the EID-Prefix HMAC. See Section 6.7.1 for
more details.

EID mask-len:

As defined in

Section 5.2 of [RFC9301]

.

EID-AFI:

As defined in

Section 5.2 of [RFC9301]

.

EID-Prefix:

As defined in

Section 5.2 of [RFC9301]

.

EID HMAC:

HMAC of the EID-AD computed and inserted by a Map-Server. See Section 6.7.1 for

more details.

6.2.  Map-Reply LISP-SEC Extensions

, with Type set to 2 and S-bit set to 1 to indicate
LISP-SEC uses the Map-Reply defined in
that the Map-Reply message includes Authentication Data (AD). The format of the LISP-SEC Map-
Reply Authentication Data is defined in Figure 2. PKT-AD is the Packet Authentication Data that
covers the Map-Reply payload.

[RFC9301]

Maino, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9303

LISP-SEC

October 2022

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|  MR AD Type   |                Unassigned                     |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ <---+
|           EID-AD Length       |           KDF ID              |     |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+     |
| Record Count  |   Unassigned  |         EID HMAC ID           |EID-AD
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+\    |
|  Unassigned   | EID mask-len  |           EID-AFI             | |   |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ Rec |
~                          EID-Prefix ...                       ~ |   |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+/    |
~                            EID HMAC                           ~     |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ <---+
|         PKT-AD Length         |         PKT HMAC ID           |\
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ |
~                            PKT HMAC                           ~PKT-AD
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+/

Figure 2: LISP-SEC Map-Reply Authentication Data

MR AD Type:

1 (LISP-SEC Authentication Data). See Section 8.

EID-AD Length:

Length (in bytes) of the EID-AD (see Section 6.1).

KDF ID:

Identifier of the Key Derivation Function used to derive MS-OTK (see Section 6.1).

Record Count:

The number of records in this Map-Reply message (see Section 6.1).

Unassigned:

Set to 0 on transmission and ignored on receipt.

EID HMAC ID:

Identifier of the HMAC algorithm used to protect the integrity of the EID-AD (see

Section 6.1).

EID mask-len:

Mask length for EID-Prefix (see Section 6.1).

EID-AFI:

See Section 6.1.

EID-Prefix:

See Section 6.1.

EID HMAC:

See Section 6.1.

PKT-AD Length:

Length (in bytes) of the Packet Authentication Data (PKT-AD).

PKT HMAC ID:

Identifier of the HMAC algorithm used to protect the integrity of the Map-Reply

(see Section 6.5).

PKT HMAC:

HMAC of the whole Map-Reply packet to protect its integrity, including the LISP-SEC

Authentication Data (from the 'Map-Reply Type' field to the 'PKT HMAC' field), which allow
message authentication.

Maino, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9303

LISP-SEC

October 2022

6.3.  Map-Register LISP-SEC Extensions

The S-bit in the Map-Register message (see
registering ETR is LISP-SEC enabled. An ETR that supports LISP-SEC
Register messages.

[RFC9301]

) indicates to the Map-Server that the
MUST

 set the S-bit in its Map-

6.4.  ITR Processing: Generating a Map-Request

Upon creating a Map-Request, the ITR generates a random ITR-OTK that is stored locally, until the
corresponding Map-Reply is received (see Section 6.9), together with the nonce generated as
specified in

[RFC9301]
.

MAY

The ITR
 use the 'KDF ID' field to indicate the recommended KDF algorithm according to local
policy. The Map-Server can overwrite the KDF ID if it does not support the KDF ID recommended
by the ITR (see Section 6.7). A KDF value of NOPREF (0) may be used to specify that the ITR has no
preferred KDF ID.

ITR-OTK confidentiality and integrity protection
and the Map-Resolver. This can be achieved either by encrypting the ITR-OTK with the pre-
shared secret known to the ITR and the Map-Resolver (see Section 6.5) or by enabling DTLS
[RFC9147]

 between the ITR and the Map-Resolver.

 be provided in the path between the ITR

MUST

The Map-Request (as defined in
an ECM, with the S-bit set to 1, to indicate the presence of Authentication Data. Such a message is
also called a "Protected Map-Request" in this memo.

 be encapsulated as a LISP Control Message in

[RFC9301] MUST

)

The ITR-OTK is wrapped with the algorithm specified by the 'OTK Wrapping ID' field. See Section
6.5 for further details on OTK encryption. If the NULL-KEY-WRAP-128 algorithm (see Section 8.4)
is selected, and no other encryption mechanism (e.g., DTLS) is enabled in the path between the
ITR and the Map-Resolver, the Map-Request
MUST
SHOULD
this document) to avoid log resource exhaustion attacks.

 be dropped, and an appropriate log action
 be taken. Implementations may include mechanisms (which are beyond the scope of

The 'Requested HMAC ID' field contains the suggested HMAC algorithm to be used by the Map-
Server and the ETR to protect the integrity of the ECM Authentication Data and of the Map-Reply.
A HMAC ID value of NONE (0)

 be used to specify that the ITR has no preferred HMAC ID.

MAY

The 'KDF ID' field specifies the suggested Key Derivation Function to be used by the Map-Server
to derive the MS-OTK. A KDF value of NONE (0) may be used to specify that the ITR has no
preferred KDF ID.

The EID-AD Length is set to 4 bytes, since the Authentication Data does not contain EID-Prefix
Authentication Data, and the EID-AD contains only the 'KDF ID' field.

If the ITR is directly connected to a Mapping System, such as LISP+ALT
functions of both the ITR and the Map-Resolver, forwarding the Protected Map-Request as
described in Section 6.6.

[RFC6836]

, it performs the

Maino, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9303

LISP-SEC

October 2022

The processing performed by Proxy ITRs (PITRs) is equivalent to the processing of an ITR; hence,
the procedure described above applies.

6.5.  Encrypting and Decrypting an OTK

MS-OTK confidentiality and integrity protection
 be provided in the path between the Map-
Server and the ETR. This can be achieved either by enabling DTLS between the Map-Server and
the ETR or by encrypting the MS-OTK with the pre-shared secret known to the Map-Server and
the ETR

[RFC9301]
.

MUST

Similarly, ITR-OTK confidentiality and integrity protection
the ITR and the Map-Resolver. This can be achieved either by enabling DTLS between the Map-
Server and the ITR or by encrypting the ITR-OTK with the pre-shared secret known to the ITR
and the Map-Resolver. The ITR/Map-Resolver pre-shared key is similar to the Map-Server/ETR
pre-shared key.

 be provided in the path between

MUST

This section describes OTK processing in the ITR/Map-Resolver path, as well as in the Map-
Server/ETR path.

It's important to note that, to prevent ETR's overclaiming attacks, the ITR/Map-Resolver pre-
shared secret

 be independent from the Map-Server/ETR pre-shared secret.

MUST

The OTK is wrapped using the algorithm specified in the 'OTK Wrapping ID' field. This field
identifies both the:

•

Key Encryption Algorithm used to encrypt the wrapped OTK and

•

Key Derivation Function used to derive a per-message encryption key.

Implementations of this specification
WRAP-128+HKDF-SHA256, which specifies the use of the HKDF-SHA256 Key Derivation Function
specified in
 to derive a per-message encryption key (per-msg-key), as well as the AES-
KEY-WRAP-128 key wrap algorithm used to encrypt a 128-bit OTK, according to

 support the OTK Wrapping ID AES-KEY-

[RFC3394]
.

[RFC5869]

MUST

Implementations of this specification
KEY-WRAP-128 is used to carry an unencrypted 128-bit OTK, with a 64-bit preamble set to
0x0000000000000000 (64 bits).

 support OTK Wrapping NULL-KEY-WRAP-128. NULL-

MUST

The key wrapping process for OTK Wrapping ID AES-KEY-WRAP-128+HKDF-SHA256 is described
below:

1.

The KDF and key wrap algorithms are identified by the value of the 'OTK Wrapping ID' field.
The initial values are documented in Table 5.

2.

If the NULL-KEY-WRAP-128 algorithm (see Section 8.4) is selected and DTLS is not enabled,
 be dropped and an appropriate log action
the Map-Request
Implementations may include mechanisms (which are beyond the scope of this document) to
avoid log resource exhaustion attacks.

 be taken.

SHOULD

MUST

3.

The pre-shared secret used to derive the per-msg-key is represented by PSK[Key ID], which is
the pre-shared secret identified by the 'Key ID'.

Maino, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9303

LISP-SEC

October 2022

4.

The 128-bit-long per-message encryption key is computed as:

per-msg-key = KDF( nonce + s + PSK[Key ID] )

where the nonce is the value in the 'Nonce' field of the Map-Request, 's' is the string "OTK-
Key-Wrap", and the operation'+' just indicates string concatenation.

5.

The per-msg-key is then used to wrap the OTK with AES-KEY-WRAP-128, as specified in
Section 2.2.1 of [RFC3394]
. The AES Key Wrap Initialization Value
0xA6A6A6A6A6A6A6A6 (64 bits). The output of the AES key wrap operation is 192 bits long.
The most significant 64 bits are copied in the 'One-Time Key Preamble' field, while the 128
least significant bits are copied in the 'One-Time Key' field of the LISP-SEC Authentication
Data.

 be set to

MUST

When decrypting an encrypted OTK, the receiver
resulting from the AES key wrap decryption operation is equal to 0xA6A6A6A6A6A6A6A6. If this
verification fails, the receiver

 verify that the Initialization Value

 discard the entire message.

MUST

MUST

6.5.1.  Unencrypted OTK

However, when DTLS is enabled, the OTK
providing confidentiality and integrity protection.

MAY

 be sent unencrypted as transport layer security is

When a 128-bit OTK is sent unencrypted, the OTK Wrapping ID is set to NULL_KEY_WRAP_128,
and the OTK Preamble is set to 0x0000000000000000 (64 bits).

6.6.  Map-Resolver Processing

Upon receiving a Protected Map-Request, the Map-Resolver decapsulates the ECM. The ITR-OTK,
if encrypted, is decrypted as specified in Section 6.5.

Protecting the confidentiality of the ITR-OTK and, in general, the security of how the Map-
Request is handed by the Map-Resolver to the Map-Server is specific to the particular Mapping
System used and is outside of the scope of this memo.

In Mapping Systems where the Map-Server is compliant with
originates a new ECM header with the S-bit set, which contains the unencrypted ITR-OTK, as
specified in Section 6.5, and the other data derived from the ECM Authentication Data of the
received Encapsulated Map-Request.

, the Map-Resolver

[RFC9301]

The Map-Resolver then forwards to the Map-Server the received Map-Request, which is
encapsulated in the new ECM header that includes the newly computed 'Authentication Data'
fields.

6.7.  Map-Server Processing

Upon receiving a Protected Map-Request, the Map-Server processes it according to the setting of
the S-bit and the P-bit in the Map-Register received from the ETRs authoritative for that prefix, as
described below.

Maino, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9303

LISP-SEC

October 2022

While processing the Map-Request, the Map-Server can overwrite the 'KDF ID' field if it does not
support the KDF ID recommended by the ITR. Processing of the Map-Request
the order described in the table below, applying the process corresponding to the first rule that
matches the conditions indicated in the first column:

 proceed in

MUST

Matching Condition

Processing

1. At least one of the ETRs
authoritative for the EID-
Prefix included in the
Map-Request registered
with the P-bit set to 1

2. At least one of the ETRs
authoritative for the EID-
Prefix included in the
Map-Request registered
with the S-bit set to 1

3. All the ETRs
authoritative for the EID-
Prefix included in the
Map-Request registered
with the S-bit set to 0

MUST

The Map-Server
as specified in Section 6.7.2. The ETR-Cant-Sign E-bit in the EID
Authentication Data (EID-AD)

 generate a LISP-SEC-protected Map-Reply,

 be set to 0.

MUST

MUST

 generate a LISP-SEC-protected

The Map-Server
Encapsulated Map-Request (as specified in Section 6.7.1) to be
sent to one of the authoritative ETRs that registered with the S-
bit set to 1 (and the P-bit set to 0). If there is at least one ETR that
registered with the S-bit set to 0, the ETR-Cant-Sign E-bit of the
EID-AD
 be set to 1 to signal the ITR that a non-LISP-SEC
Map-Request might reach additional ETRs that have LISP-SEC
disabled.

MUST

MUST

 send a Negative Map-Reply protected with

The Map-Server
LISP-SEC, as described in Section 6.7.2. The ETR-Cant-Sign E-bit
 be set to 1 to signal the ITR that a non-LISP-SEC Map-
MUST
Request might reach additional ETRs that have LISP-SEC
disabled.

Table 1: Map-Request Processing

In this way, the ITR that sent a LISP-SEC-protected Map-Request always receives a LISP-SEC-
protected Map-Reply. However, the ETR-Cant-Sign E-bit set to 1 specifies that a non-LISP-SEC
Map-Request might reach additional ETRs that have LISP-SEC disabled. This mechanism allows
the ITR to downgrade to non-LISP-SEC requests, which does not protect against threats described
in Section 4.

6.7.1.  Generating a LISP-SEC-Protected Encapsulated Map-Request

The Map-Server decapsulates the ECM and generates new ECM Authentication Data. The
Authentication Data includes the OTK-AD and the EID-AD, which contains EID-Prefix
authorization information that are eventually received by the requesting ITR.

The Map-Server updates the OTK-AD by deriving a new OTK (MS-OTK) from the ITR-OTK received
with the Map-Request. MS-OTK is derived by applying the Key Derivation Function specified in
the 'KDF ID' field. If the algorithm specified in the 'KDF ID' field is not supported, the Map-Server
uses a different algorithm to derive the key and updates the 'KDF ID' field accordingly.

Maino, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9303

LISP-SEC

October 2022

The Map-Request
presence of Authentication Data.

MUST

 be encapsulated in an ECM, with the S-bit set to 1, to indicate the

MS-OTK is wrapped with the algorithm specified by the 'OTK Wrapping ID' field. See Section 6.5
for further details on OTK encryption. If the NULL-KEY-WRAP-128 algorithm is selected and DTLS
is not enabled in the path between the Map-Server and the ETR, the Map-Request
dropped and an appropriate log action

 be taken.

SHOULD

MUST

 be

In the EID-AD, the Map-Server includes in the EID-AD the longest-match-registered EID-Prefix for
the destination EID and an HMAC of this EID-Prefix. The HMAC is keyed with the ITR-OTK
contained in the received ECM Authentication Data, and the HMAC algorithm is chosen according
to the 'Requested HMAC ID' field. If the Map-Server does not support this algorithm, the Map-
Server uses a different algorithm and specifies it in the 'EID HMAC ID' field. The scope of the
HMAC operation
field, which
MUST

MUST
 be set to 0 before the computation.

 cover the entire EID-AD, from the 'EID-AD Length' field to the 'EID HMAC'

The Map-Server then forwards the updated ECM-Encapsulated Map-Request, which contains the
OTK-AD, the EID-AD, and the received Map-Request to an authoritative ETR as specified in
[RFC9301]
.

6.7.2.  Generating a Proxy Map-Reply

A LISP-SEC proxy Map-Reply is generated according to
1. The Map-Reply includes the Authentication Data that contains the EID-AD computed as
specified in Section 6.7.1, as well as the PKT-AD computed as specified in Section 6.8.

[RFC9301]

, with the Map-Reply S-bit set to

6.8.  ETR Processing

Upon receiving an ECM-Encapsulated Map-Request with the S-bit set, the ETR decapsulates the
ECM. The 'OTK' field, if encrypted, is decrypted as specified in Section 6.5 to obtain the
unencrypted MS-OTK.

The ETR then generates a Map-Reply as specified in
Data that contains the EID-AD, as received in the Encapsulated Map-Request, as well as the PKT-
AD.

 and includes the Authentication

[RFC9301]

The EID-AD is copied from the Authentication Data of the received Encapsulated Map-Request.

The PKT-AD contains the HMAC of the whole Map-Reply packet, keyed with the MS-OTK and
computed using the HMAC algorithm specified in the 'Requested HMAC ID' field of the received
Encapsulated Map-Request. If the ETR does not support the Requested HMAC ID, it uses a
different algorithm and updates the 'PKT HMAC ID' field accordingly. The HMAC operation
cover the entire Map-Reply, where the 'PKT HMAC' field

MUST
 be set to 0 before the computation.

MUST

Finally, the ETR sends the Map-Reply to the requesting ITR as specified in

[RFC9301]
.

Maino, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9303

LISP-SEC

October 2022

6.9.  ITR Processing: Receiving a Map-Reply

In response to a Protected Map-Request, an ITR expects a Map-Reply with the S-bit set to 1,
including an EID-AD and a PKT-AD. The ITR

 discard the Map-Reply otherwise.

MUST

Upon receiving a Map-Reply, the ITR must verify the integrity of both the EID-AD and the PKT-AD
and
MUST
Reply, the ITR

 discard the Map-Reply if one of the integrity checks fails. After processing the Map-
 discard the <nonce,ITR-OTK> pair associated to the Map-Reply.

MUST

The integrity of the EID-AD is verified using the ITR-OTK (stored locally for the duration of this
exchange) to recompute the HMAC of the EID-AD using the algorithm specified in the 'EID HMAC
ID' field. If the ITR did indicate a Requested HMAC ID in the Map-Request and the PKT HAMC ID
in the corresponding Map-Reply is different, or if the ITR did not indicate a Requested HMAC ID
in the Map-Request and the PKT HMAC ID in the corresponding Map-Reply is not supported, then
the ITR
[RFC9301]
local policy. The scope of the HMAC operation covers the entire EID-AD, from the 'EID-AD Length'
field to the 'EID HMAC' field.

, a new Map-Request with a different 'Requested HMAC ID' field, according to ITR's

 discard the Map-Reply and send, according to rate-limitation policies defined in

MUST

ITR

MUST

 set the 'EID HMAC ID' field to 0 before computing the HMAC.

To verify the integrity of the PKT-AD, first the MS-OTK is derived from the locally stored ITR-OTK
using the algorithm specified in the 'KDF ID' field. This is because the PKT-AD is generated by the
ETR using the MS-OTK. If the ITR did indicate a recommended KDF ID in the Map-Request and
the KDF ID in the corresponding Map-Reply is different or if the ITR did not indicate a
recommended KDF ID in the Map-Request and the KDF ID in the corresponding Map-Reply is not
supported, then the ITR
policies defined in
local policy. The Key Derivation Function HKDF-SHA256
implementations. LISP-SEC deployments
SHOULD
older implementations using HKDF-SHA1-128 are present in the same deployment. Without
consistent configuration of involved entities, extra delays may be experienced. However, since
HKDF-SHA1-128 and HKDF-SHA256 are supported, the process will eventually converge.

 discard the Map-Reply and send, according to rate-limitation
, a new Map-Request with a different KDF ID, according to ITR's

 use the HKDF-SHA256 HKDF function, unless

 be supported in LISP-SEC

MUST
[RFC9301]

MUST

The derived MS-OTK is then used to recompute the HMAC of the PKT-AD using the algorithm
specified in the 'PKT HMAC ID' field. If the 'PKT HMAC ID' field does not match the Requested
 discard the Map-Reply and send, according to rate-limitation policies
HMAC ID, the ITR
, a new Map-Request with a different Requested HMAC ID, according to ITR's
defined in
local policy or until all HMAC IDs supported by the ITR have been attempted. When the 'PKT
HMAC ID' field does not match the Requested HMAC ID, it is not possible to validate the Map-
Reply.

[RFC9301]

MUST

Each individual Map-Reply EID-Record is considered valid only if: (1) both EID-AD and PKT-AD
are valid and (2) the intersection of the EID-Prefix in the Map-Reply EID-Record with one of the
EID-Prefixes contained in the EID-AD is not empty. After identifying the Map-Reply record as

Maino, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9303

LISP-SEC

October 2022

valid, the ITR sets the EID-Prefix in the Map-Reply record to the value of the intersection set
computed before and adds the Map-Reply EID-Record to its EID-to-RLOC Map-Cache, as described
. An example of Map-Reply record validation is provided in Section 6.9.1.
in

[RFC9301]

[RFC9301]
 allows ETRs to send Solicit-Map-Requests (SMRs) directly to the ITR. The
corresponding SMR-invoked Map-Request will be sent through the Mapping System, hence,
secured with the specifications of this memo if in use. If an ITR accepts Map-Replies piggybacked
in Map-Requests and its content is not already present in its EID-to-RLOC Map-Cache, it
send a Map-Request over the Mapping System in order to verify its content with a secured Map-
Reply before using the content.

MUST

6.9.1.  Map-Reply Record Validation

The payload of a Map-Reply may contain multiple EID-Records. The whole Map-Reply is signed
by the ETR, with the PKT HMAC, to provide integrity protection and origin authentication to the
EID-Prefix records claimed by the ETR. The 'Authentication Data' field of a Map-Reply may
contain multiple EID-Records in the EID-AD. The EID-AD is signed by the Map-Server, with the
EID HMAC, to provide integrity protection and origin authentication to the EID-Prefix records
inserted by the Map-Server.

MUST NOT

Upon receiving a Map-Reply with the S-bit set, the ITR first checks the validity of both the EID
HMAC and of the PKT-AD HMAC. If either one of the HMACs is not valid, a log action
SHOULD
 be processed any further. Implementations may include
taken and the Map-Reply
mechanisms (which are beyond the scope of this document) to avoid log resource exhaustion
attacks. If both HMACs are valid, the ITR proceeds with validating each individual EID-Record
claimed by the ETR by computing the intersection of each one of the EID-Prefixes contained in
the payload of the Map-Reply, with each one of the EID-Prefixes contained in the EID-AD. An EID-
Record is valid only if at least one of the intersections is not the empty set; otherwise, a log action
MUST
mechanisms (which are beyond the scope of this document) to avoid log resource exhaustion
attacks.

 be discarded. Implementations may include

 be taken and the EID-Record

MUST

 be

For instance, the Map-Reply payload contains 3 mapping record EID-Prefixes:

2001:db8:102::/48

2001:db8:103::/48

2001:db8:200::/40

The EID-AD contains two EID-Prefixes:

2001:db8:103::/48

2001:db8:203::/48

The EID-Record with EID-Prefix 2001:db8:102::/48 is not eligible to be used by the ITR, since it is
not included in any of the EID-ADs signed by the Map-Server. A log action
EID-Record
the scope of this document) to avoid log resource exhaustion attacks.

 be discarded. Implementations may include mechanisms (which are beyond

 be taken, and the

MUST

MUST

Maino, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9303

LISP-SEC

October 2022

The EID-Record with EID-Prefix 2001:db8:103::/48 is eligible to be used by the ITR because it
matches the second EID-Prefix contained in the EID-AD.

The EID-Record with EID-Prefix 2001:db8:200::/40 is not eligible to be used by the ITR, since it is
not included in any of the EID-ADs signed by the Map-Server. A log action
EID-Record
the scope of this document) to avoid log resource exhaustion attacks. In this last example, the
ETR is trying to over claim the EID-Prefix 2001:db8:200::/40, but the Map-Server authorized only
2001:db8:203::/48; hence, the EID-Record is discarded.

 be discarded. Implementations may include mechanisms (which are beyond

 be taken and the

MUST

MUST

7.  Security Considerations

This document extends the LISP control plane defined in
considerations apply to this document as well.

[RFC9301]

; hence, its security

7.1.  Mapping System Security

The LISP-SEC threat model described in Section 4 assumes that the LISP Mapping System is
working properly and delivers Map-Request messages to a Map-Server that is authoritative for
the requested EID.

It is assumed that the Mapping System ensures the confidentiality of the OTK and the integrity of
the Map-Reply data. However, how the LISP Mapping System is secured is out of the scope of this
document.

Similarly, Map-Register security, including the right for a LISP entity to register an EID-Prefix or
to claim presence at an RLOC, is out of the scope of LISP-SEC.

7.2.  Random Number Generation

The ITR-OTK
source. See

MUST
[RFC4086]

 be generated by a properly seeded pseudo-random (or strong random)

 for advice on generating security-sensitive random data.

7.3.  Map-Server and ETR Colocation

If the Map-Server and the ETR are colocated, LISP-SEC does not provide protection from
overclaiming attacks mounted by the ETR. However, in this particular case, since the ETR is
within the trust boundaries of the Map-Server, ETR's overclaiming attacks are not included in the
threat model.

7.4.  Deploying LISP-SEC

Those deploying LISP-SEC according to this memo should carefully weigh how the LISP-SEC
threat model applies to their particular use case or deployment. If they decide to ignore a
particular recommendation, they should make sure the risk associated with the corresponding
threats is well understood.

Maino, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9303

LISP-SEC

October 2022

As an example, in certain other deployments, attackers may be very sophisticated and force the
deployers to enforce very strict policies in terms of HMAC algorithms accepted by an ITR.

Similar considerations apply to the entire LISP-SEC threat model and should guide the deployers
and implementors whenever they encounter the key word

 across this memo.

SHOULD

7.5.  Shared Keys Provisioning

Provisioning of the keys shared between ITR and Map-Resolver pairs as well as between ETR and
Map-Server pairs should be performed via an orchestration infrastructure, and is out of the
scope of this memo. It is recommended that both shared keys be refreshed at periodical intervals
to address key aging or attackers gaining unauthorized access to the shared keys. Shared keys
should be unpredictable random values.

7.6.  Replay Attacks

An attacker can capture a valid Map-Request and/or Map-Reply and replay it; however, once the
ITR receives the original Map-Reply, the <nonce,ITR-OTK> pair stored at the ITR will be
discarded. If a replayed Map-Reply arrives at the ITR, there is no <nonce,ITR-OTK> that matches
the incoming Map-Reply and the replayed Map-Reply will be discarded.

In the case of a replayed Map-Request, the Map-Server, Map-Resolver, and ETR will have to do a
LISP-SEC computation. This is equivalent, in terms of resources, to a valid LISP-SEC computation
and, beyond a risk of DoS attack, an attacker does not obtain any additional effect, since the
corresponding Map-Reply is discarded as previously explained.

7.7.  Message Privacy

[RFC9147] SHOULD

 be used (conforming to

DTLS
and to prevent eavesdropping, tampering, or message forgery to the messages exchanged
between the ITR, Map-Resolver, Map-Server, and ETR, unless the OTK is encrypted in another
way, e.g., using a pre-shared secret. DTLS has the responder be verified by the initiator, which
enables an ITR to authenticate the Map-Resolver and the Map-Server to authenticate the
responding ETR.

) to provide communication privacy

[RFC7525]

7.8.  Denial-of-Service and Distributed Denial-of-Service Attacks

LISP-SEC mitigates the risks of DoS and DDoS attacks by protecting the integrity and
authenticating the origin of the Map-Request/Map-Reply messages and by preventing malicious
ETRs from overclaiming EID-Prefixes that could redirect traffic directed to a potentially large
number of hosts.

8.  IANA Considerations

IANA has created the subregistries listed in the following sections in the "Locator/ID Separation
Protocol (LISP) Parameters" registry.

Maino, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9303

LISP-SEC

October 2022

For all of the subregistries, new values are assigned according to the Specification Required
policy defined in
. Expert Review should assess the security properties of newly added
functions so that encryption robustness remains strong. For instance, at the time of this writing,
the use of SHA-256-based functions is considered to provide sufficient protection. Consultation
with security experts may be needed.

[RFC8126]

8.1.  ECM AD Type Registry

IANA has created the "LISP ECM Authentication Data Types" registry with values 0-255 for use in
the ECM LISP-SEC extensions (see Section 6.1). Initial allocations are shown in Table 2.

Name

Number Defined in

Reserved

LISP-SEC-ECM-EXT

0

1

RFC 9303

RFC 9303

Table 2: LISP ECM Authentication Data Types

Values 2-255 are unassigned.

8.2.  Map-Reply AD Types Registry

IANA has created the "LISP Map-Reply Authentication Data Types" registry with values 0-255 for
use in the Map-Reply LISP-SEC extensions (see Section 6.2). Initial allocations are shown in Table
3.

Name

Number Defined in

Reserved

LISP-SEC-MR-EXT

0

1

RFC 9303

RFC 9303

Table 3: Map-Reply Authentication Data Types

Values 2-255 are unassigned.

8.3.  HMAC Functions

IANA is requested to create the "LISP-SEC Preferred Authentication Data HMAC IDs" registry with
values 0-65535 for use as Requested HMAC IDs, EID HMAC IDs, and PKT HMAC IDs in the LISP-
SEC Authentication Data. Initial allocations are shown in Table 4.

Name

NOPREF

AUTH-HMAC-SHA-1-96

Number Defined in

0

1

RFC 9303

[RFC2104]

Maino, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9303

LISP-SEC

October 2022

Name

Number Defined in

AUTH-HMAC-SHA-256-128

2

[RFC6234]

Table 4: LISP-SEC Preferred Authentication Data HMAC
IDs

Values 3-65535 are unassigned.

8.4.  Key Wrap Functions

IANA has created the "LISP-SEC Authentication Data Key Wrap IDs" registry with values 0-65535
for use as OTK key wrap algorithm IDs in the LISP-SEC Authentication Data. Initial allocations are
shown in Table 5.

Name

Reserved

NULL-KEY-WRAP-128

AES-KEY-WRAP-128+HKDF-SHA256

Number

Key Wrap

KDF

Reference

0

1

2

None

None

RFC 9303

RFC 9303

None

RFC 9303

[RFC3394]

[RFC4868]

  RFC 9303

Table 5: LISP-SEC Authentication Data Key Wrap IDs

Values 3-65535 are unassigned.

8.5.  Key Derivation Functions

IANA has created the "LISP-SEC Authentication Data Key Derivation Function IDs" registry with
values 0-65535 for use as KDF IDs. Initial allocations are shown in Table 6.

Name

Number

Reference

NOPREF

HKDF-SHA1-128

HKDF-SHA256

0

1

2

RFC 9303

[RFC5869]

[RFC5869]

Table 6: LISP-SEC Authentication Data Key
Derivation Function IDs

Values 3-65535 are unassigned.

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

Maino, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9303

LISP-SEC

October 2022

[RFC2104]

[RFC2119]

[RFC3394]

[RFC4868]

[RFC5869]

[RFC6234]

[RFC7525]

[RFC7835]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

[RFC9147]

[RFC9300]

,

Krawczyk, H. Bellare, M.
Authentication" RFC 2104 DOI 10.17487/RFC2104
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2104>

, and
,

.

R. Canetti "HMAC: Keyed-Hashing for Message

,

, February 1997,

<https://

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

R. Housley "Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) Key Wrap

,

Schaad, J.
 and
Algorithm" RFC 3394 DOI 10.17487/RFC3394
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc3394>

.

, September 2002,

<https://www.rfc-

S. Frankel "Using HMAC-SHA-256, HMAC-SHA-384, and HMAC-

,

 and

Kelly, S.
SHA-512 with IPsec" RFC 4868 DOI 10.17487/RFC4868
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4868>

,

,

.

, May 2007,

<https://

Krawczyk, H.
Function (HKDF)" RFC 5869 DOI 10.17487/RFC5869
editor.org/info/rfc5869>

P. Eronen "HMAC-based Extract-and-Expand Key Derivation
 and
,

, May 2010,

<https://www.rfc-

,
,

.

 and

Eastlake 3rd, D.
based HMAC and HKDF)" RFC 6234 DOI 10.17487/RFC6234
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6234>

,

,

.

T. Hansen "US Secure Hash Algorithms (SHA and SHA-

,

, May 2011,

<https://

,

, and

P. Saint-Andre "Recommendations for Secure Use of

Sheffer, Y. Holz, R.
,
Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)"
BCP 195 RFC 7525 DOI 10.17487/RFC7525
editor.org/info/rfc7525>

<https://www.rfc-

, May 2015,

,

,

.

,

Saucez, D. Iannone, L.
,
(LISP) Threat Analysis" RFC 7835 DOI 10.17487/RFC7835
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7835>

O. Bonaventure "Locator/ID Separation Protocol
<https://

, and
,

, April 2016,

,
.

,

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

, June

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Rescorla, E. Tschofenig, H.
Security (DTLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 9147 DOI 10.17487/RFC9147
2022,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9147>

N. Modadugu "The Datagram Transport Layer

, April

, and

,
.

,

,

,

Farinacci, D. Fuller, V. Meyer, D. Lewis, D.
Separation Protocol (LISP)" RFC 9300 DOI 10.17487/RFC9300
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9300>

, and

,

.

,

,

,

A. Cabellos, Ed. "The Locator/ID
,

, October 2022,

Maino, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9303

LISP-SEC

October 2022

[RFC9301]

,

Farinacci, D. Maino, F. Fuller, V.
Protocol (LISP) Control Plane" RFC 9301 DOI 10.17487/RFC9301
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9301>

, and

.

,

,

A. Cabellos, Ed. "Locator/ID Separation

,

, October 2022,

9.2.  Informative References

[RFC4086]

[RFC6836]

,

Eastlake 3rd, D. Schiller, J.
Security" BCP 106 RFC 4086 DOI 10.17487/RFC4086
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4086>

, and
,

,

.

,

S. Crocker "Randomness Requirements for

,

, June 2005,

<https://

,

Fuller, V. Farinacci, D. Meyer, D.
Alternative Logical Topology (LISP+ALT)" RFC 6836 DOI 10.17487/RFC6836
January 2013,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6836>

D. Lewis "Locator/ID Separation Protocol

, and

,

.

,

,

,

,

Acknowledgments

The authors would like to acknowledge
Farinacci Brian Weis David McGrew Darrel Lewis
suggestions provided during the preparation of this document.

,
, and

,

,

,

Luigi Iannone Pere Monclus Dave Meyer Dino

,

Landon Curt Noll

,
 for their valuable

Authors' Addresses

Fabio Maino
Cisco Systems
San Jose CA
United States of America
Email:

 fmaino@cisco.com

,

Vina Ermagan
Google, Inc.
1600 Amphitheatre Parkway
Mountain View CA 94043
United States of America
Email:

 ermagan@gmail.com

,

Albert Cabellos
Universitat Politecnica de Catalunya
c/ Jordi Girona s/n
08034 Barcelona
Spain
Email:

 acabello@ac.upc.edu

Maino, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9303

LISP-SEC

October 2022

Damien Saucez
Inria
2004 route des Lucioles - BP 93
Sophia Antipolis
France
Email:

 damien.saucez@inria.fr

Maino, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

