Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9796
Standards Track
July 2025
2070-1721
C. Wendt
Somos

J. Peterson
TransUnion

RFC 9796
SIP Call-Info Parameters for Rich Call Data

Abstract

This document specifies a usage of the SIP Call-Info header field that incorporates Rich Call Data
(RCD) associated with the identity of the originating party in order to provide to the terminating
party a description of the caller (including details about the reason for the session). RCD includes
information about the caller beyond the telephone number (such as a calling name, logo, photo,
or jCard object representing the caller), which can help the called party decide how to handle
the session request.

This document defines three new parameters 'call-reason', 'verified', and 'integrity' for the SIP
Call-Info header field and also a new token ("jcard") for the 'purpose' parameter of the Call-Info
header field. It also provides guidance on the use of the Call-Info 'purpose' parameter token,
"icon".

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9796
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Wendt & Peterson

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9796

Call-Info Rich Call Data

July 2025

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  Overview

4.  A Call-Info Framework for Carrying Rich Call Data

5.  "jcard" Call-Info 'purpose' Token

6.  'call-reason' Call-Info Parameter

7.  'verified' Call-Info Parameter

8.  'integrity' Call-Info Parameter

9.  Usage and an Example of Call-Info for RCD

10. Usage of jCard and Property-Specific Usage

10.1.  Usage of URIs in jCard

10.2.  Usage of Multimedia Data in jCard or with the "icon" Call-Info 'purpose' Token

10.3.  Cardinality

10.4.  Identification Properties

10.4.1.  "fn" Property

10.4.2.  "n" Property

10.4.3.  "nickname" Property

10.4.4.  "photo" Property

10.5.  Delivery Addressing Properties

10.5.1.  "adr" Property

10.6.  Communications Properties

10.6.1.  "tel" Property

10.6.2.  "email" Property

10.6.3.  "lang" Property

4

5

5

6

7

9

10

12

14

15

15

15

16

17

17

17

17

18

18

18

19

19

19

20

Wendt & Peterson

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9796

Call-Info Rich Call Data

July 2025

10.7.  Geographical Properties

10.7.1.  "tz" Property

10.7.2.  "geo" Property

10.8.  Organizational Properties

10.8.1.  "title" Property

10.8.2.  "role" Property

10.8.3.  "logo" Property

10.8.4.  "org" Property

10.9.  Explanatory Properties

10.9.1.  "categories" Property

10.9.2.  "note" Property

10.9.3.  "sound" Property

10.9.4.  "uid" Property

10.9.5.  "url" Property

10.9.6.  "version" Property

11. Extension of jCard

12. IANA Considerations

12.1.  "jcard" Purpose Parameter Value

12.2.  SIP Call-Info Header Field 'call-reason' Parameter

12.3.  SIP Call-Info Header Field 'verified' Parameter

12.4.  SIP Call-Info Header Field 'integrity' Parameter

13. Security Considerations

14. References

14.1.  Normative References

14.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

20

20

20

21

21

21

21

22

22

22

22

23

23

23

24

24

24

24

24

25

25

25

26

26

28

28

29

Wendt & Peterson

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9796

Call-Info Rich Call Data

July 2025

1.  Introduction

Signaling protocols in telephone networks have long supported the delivery of a 'calling name'
from the originating side to the terminating side; however, in practice, the terminating side is
often left to derive a name from the calling-party number by consulting a local address book or
an external database. SIP
 similarly can carry a 'display-name' in the From header
field value from the originating to terminating side, though it is a field that is not commonly
trusted and is often replaced or ignored. The same can be considered true of information in the
Call-Info header field in SIP.

[RFC3261]

 that allows called parties
This document defines usage of the SIP Call-Info header field
to receive a more comprehensive and extensible set of Rich Call Data (RCD) for incoming calls. It
defines specific usage of the Call-Info header field, a new parameter ('call-reason'), and a new
token ("jcard") for the 'purpose' parameter of the Call-Info header field. Depending on the
policies of the communications system, a calling party could be either the end user device (e.g., a
SIP user agent (UA)) or a network service as part of a telephone service provider. Similarly, a
called party could be an end user device or the network telephone service provider acting on
behalf of the recipient of the call.

[RFC3261]

[RFC9795]

, this document defines two additional new parameters,

In order to properly protect and communicate some of the authenticated and trusted properties
of "rcd" claims defined in
'verified' and 'integrity'. These parameters help protect RCD information that had been sent via a
SIP network to, for example, a SIP entity on the edge of the Network-Network Interface (NNI)
 and further defined specific to RCD
that contains a verification service as defined in
information in
. The verification procedures include the successful verification of the
"rcd" claims and can be correspondingly represented in the Call-Info header field via these new
parameters.

[RFC8224]

[RFC9795]

Used on its own, this specification assumes that the called party UA can trust the SIP network to
assign, deliver, and protect the correct RCD information as an end-to-end security policy.
However, as is true in many interconnected communications services, this end-to-end trust
cannot be guaranteed. Therefore, the recommended approach is that the entity inserting the Call-
Info header field should also sign the caller information via protocol tools defined by Secure
Telephone Identity Revisited (STIR)
of RCD or the "rcd" PASSporT defined in

 and specifically through the use

 for SIP
[RFC9795]
.

[RFC8224]

[RFC7340]

 as part of the communications signaling path, specifically in the trusted User-Network

Alternatively, this specification can be utilized in conjunction with the protocols defined in
[RFC9795]
Interface (UNI) device interface at the terminating side as part of an authenticated, network-to-
device, trusted signaling where a device may not have the ability to verify the "rcd" PASSporT,
but it can receive the RCD information from the Call-Info header field as defined in this
specification.

Wendt & Peterson

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9796

Call-Info Rich Call Data

July 2025

[RFC7852]

 which defined a means of carrying additional data about callers for the

This specification provides an approach for the delivery of jCard data that utilizes the same
mechanism as
purposes of emergency services (especially Section
[RFC7852]
[RFC7852]
delivery of information via jCard
capability to carry a data structure as a body, through the use of the "cid" URI scheme

). This document defines a 'purpose' parameter value "jcard" for the more generic

4.4 (Owner/Subscriber Information)

. This document borrows from

 the
[RFC2392]
.

[RFC7095]

 of

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Overview

. The Call-Info header field (defined in

This document provides a framework for the use of Call-Info header field to carry RCD in SIP
[RFC3261]
parameter. In addition to providing guidance on calling name practices and the use of the
existing 'purpose' parameter token, "icon", this document expands on other types of RCD by
defining a new 'purpose' token, "jcard", and three new parameters, 'call-reason', 'verified', and
'integrity' for the Call-Info header field to align with RCD as defined in the STIR framework
[RFC8224]

 and with "rcd" PASSporTs defined in

[RFC3261], Section 20.9

) defines a 'purpose'

[RFC9795]
.

[RFC7095]

The 'purpose' parameter token "jcard" is used to associate RCD related to the identity of the
calling party in the form of a jCard
which could be considered to have an overlapping purpose, the "jcard" token is intended to
denote the jCard profile defined in this document for use in the Call-Info header field for RCD.
The choice of jCard in this specification is guided by two aspects. jCard represents an extensible
method of providing information about a person or business associated with a call, has been
defined in
JSON Web Tokens (JWT)

. While there is a "card" token defined in

, and has been adopted by PASSporT

 because of the usage of

[RFC7519]
.

[RFC8225]

[RFC9795]

[RFC3261]

The new Call-Info header field parameter 'call-reason' conveys the caller's intent or reason for
calling to help the called party understand the context and intent of the call and why they may
want to answer the call.

The new Call-Info header field parameter 'verified' provides an indication, with the value "true",
to represent the results of the verification procedures that were performed by the sender of the
Call-Info header field. The new Call-Info header field parameter 'integrity' provides a
mechanism to associate an integrity hash string, as defined in
, that is
associated with the content of the resource referenced by the URI represented in the Call-Info
header field.

Section 8.2 of [RFC9795]

Wendt & Peterson

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9796

Call-Info Rich Call Data

July 2025

4.  A Call-Info Framework for Carrying Rich Call Data

[RFC9795]

. Typically, a SIP-based session involves multiple hops

This specification extends the Call-Info header field to be compatible and complementary to the
RCD framework defined in
through different trusted and untrusted networks. The STIR framework
protection of the carriage of call information and identities over untrusted networks, which
 defines the Call-Info
wasn't addressed in the core SIP specifications.
header field as the mechanism for carrying call- and caller-related information and also
provides procedures for defining new 'purpose' parameter tokens. This document discusses the
use of existing tokens and defines a new 'purpose' token to correspond to the RCD framework.

[RFC3261], Section 20.9

[RFC7340]

 addresses the

There are a number of RCD information types that can be transmitted in the Call-Info header
field of a SIP request. The STIR RCD specification
elements: a calling name, a logo or icon associated with the caller, and a call reason string. It also
discusses an extensible way to carry caller information using jCard

 defines the following primary RCD

[RFC7095]
.

[RFC9795]

[RFC9795]

The RCD framework defined both in this document as well as in
 carries call-specific
information. The insertion of RCD is intended to be singular in that the receiving party should
not be required to make any call-specific decisions based on redundant, duplicate, or conflicting
RCD. The RCD information is either intended to be added by a party that is authoritative over
that information or to have been translated from a verified STIR RCD PASSporT and unmodified
 modify the
once in a trusted domain. Any additional parties involved in the call path
Call-Info header field or add additional Call-Info header fields related to RCD. The trusted and
verified caller RCD information inserted in the RCD Call-Info header field
or altered. The user should be able to trust that the RCD information accurately represents the
verified information. This specification acknowledges that without the use of STIR or other
mechanisms, detection of any modifications is not possible, so guidance for the use of this
specification in a trusted UNI part of the network is important.

 be modified

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

[RFC9795]

, the calling name uses the display-name value of the From header field

 of the request. Alternatively, for some calls, the calling name may come from the P-

As discussed in
[RFC3261]
Asserted-ID header field
terms of the representation of the display-name value, this document does discuss the
representation of the verification of this value using the 'verified' parameter.

. While this is out of scope for the Call-Info header field in

[RFC3325]

For logos or icons that can represent the calling party, the 'purpose' token "icon"
used to indicate a URI for an image resource that can be displayed to the user receiving the SIP
request. For the purpose of this document and the transmission of RCD, the "icon" 'purpose'
Section 8.2 of [RFC9795]
token should be used as defined.
formatting and related information.

 provides high-level guidance on image

[RFC3261]

 is

This document defines 'call-reason' as a new parameter for the Call-Info header field. This
parameter carries a string indicating the reason for the call.

Wendt & Peterson

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9796

Call-Info Rich Call Data

July 2025

[RFC3261]

jCard is a comprehensive and extensible mechanism utilized as part of the STIR RCD framework.
 specifies a "card" 'purpose' token, the intent of defining a new "jcard" 'purpose'
While
token is to use the JSON jCard format
 and to provide guidance for the use and non-use
of jCard attributes to describe the calling party in a communications session as well to provide
some security considerations around that information. These topics are covered in the next
sections.

[RFC7095]

5.  "jcard" Call-Info 'purpose' Token

The Call-Info 'purpose' token "jcard" indicates support of RCD associated with the identity of a
calling party in a SIP call
. The format of a Call-Info header field when
using the "jcard" token is as follows.

[RFC3261], Section 20.9

[RFC8259]

[RFC7095]

. The media type for the JSON text

The Call-Info header field is defined to include a URI that points to a resource that is a jCard
JSON object
. This
encoding of UTF-8
the "data" URI scheme. A jCard also
Call-Info header field via the "cid" URI scheme
URI
HTTPS tied to a specific validated domain). If, in the specific deployment environment of SIP, the
source or integrity of the RCD information cannot be trusted, then the use of the STIR RCD
 should be considered.
framework defined in

 be set as application/json with an
 be carried directly in the Call-Info header field URI using
 be carried in the body of the SIP request bearing this

 use a transport that can validate the integrity of the source of the resource (e.g.,

. Alternatively, the Call-Info header field

[RFC9795]

[RFC2392]

MUST

MUST

MAY

MAY

Because the use and purpose of this specification is to provide a single presentation of RCD
information, a call and its corresponding single RCD-related Call-Info header field
contain a single jCard object represented by an array with two elements. The array
include a single first element with the string "vcard", and the second element is an array of jCard
properties corresponding to the single entity jCard object.

MUST

MUST

 only

 only

jCard has multiple fields that may convey similar information, for example, "fn", "n", or
"nickname" are strings that represent names in different ways, or "photo" or "logo" represent a
picture. Users of this specification should make sure there is consistency for the calling name
string corresponding to the single name in the SIP From or P-Asserted-ID header field or a "logo"
or "photo" corresponds to the RCD "icon" as described in the previous section. As described in
[RFC8224]
match the corresponding information in the SIP message to enable proper verification of calling
name or icon consistently.

 verification procedures, the values represented in the RCD

[RFC9795]

MUST

 and

An example of a Call-Info header field is:

Call-Info: <https://example.com/qbranch.json>;purpose=jcard

An example of the contents of a URL-linked jCard JSON file is shown as follows:

Wendt & Peterson

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9796

Call-Info Rich Call Data

July 2025

["vcard",
  [
    ["version",{},"text","4.0"],
    ["fn",{},"text","Q Branch"],
    ["org",{},"text","MI6;Q Branch Spy Gadgets"],
    ["photo",{},"uri","https://example.com/photos/q-256x256.png"],
    ["logo",{},"uri","https://example.com/logos/mi6-256x256.jpg"],
    ["logo",{},"uri","https://example.com/logos/mi6-64x64.jpg"]
  ]
]

An example SIP INVITE using the "data" URI scheme is as follows:

   INVITE sip:alice@example.com SIP/2.0
   Via: SIP/2.0/TLS pc33.atlanta.example.com;branch=z9hG4bKnashds8
   To: Alice <sip:alice@example.com>
   From: Bob <sip:12155551000@example.com;user=phone>;tag=1928301774>
   Call-ID: a84b4c76e66710
   Call-Info: <data:application/json,["vcard",[["version",{},"text",
    "4.0"],["fn",{},"text","Q Branch"],["org",{},"text","MI6;Q Branch
    Spy Gadgets"],["photo",{},"uri","https://example.com/photos/quart
    ermaster-256x256.png"],["logo",{},"uri","https://example.com/log
    os/mi6-256x256.jpg"],["logo",{},"uri","https://example.com/logos/
    mi6-64x64.jpg"]]]\>;purpose=jcard;call-reason="Rendezvous for
    Little Nellie"
   CSeq: 314159 INVITE
   Max-Forwards: 70
   Date: Fri, 25 Sep 2025 19:12:25 GMT
   Contact: <sip:12155551000@gateway.example.com>
   Content-Type: application/sdp

   v=0
   o=UserA 2890844526 2890844526 IN IP4 pc33.atlanta.example.com
   s=Session SDP
   c=IN IP4 pc33.atlanta.example.com
   t=0 0
   m=audio 49172 RTP/AVP 0
   a=rtpmap:0 PCMU/8000

An example SIP INVITE using the "cid" URI scheme is as follows:

Wendt & Peterson

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9796

Call-Info Rich Call Data

July 2025

   INVITE sip:alice@example.com SIP/2.0
   Via: SIP/2.0/TLS pc33.atlanta.example.com;branch=z9hG4bKnashds8
   To: Alice <sip:alice@example.com>
   From: Bob <sip:12155551000@example.com;user=phone>;tag=1928301774>
   Call-ID: a84b4c76e66710
   Call-Info: <cid:12155551000@example.com>;purpose=jcard;
    call-reason="Rendezvous for Little Nellie"
   CSeq: 314159 INVITE
   Max-Forwards: 70
   Date: Fri, 25 Sep 2025 19:12:25 GMT
   Contact: <sip:12155551000@gateway.example.com>
   Content-Type: multipart/mixed; boundary=boundary1
   Content-Length: ...

   --boundary1

   Content-Type: application/sdp

   v=0
   o=UserA 2890844526 2890844526 IN IP4 pc33.atlanta.example.com
   s=Session SDP
   c=IN IP4 pc33.atlanta.example.com
   t=0 0
   m=audio 49172 RTP/AVP 0
   a=rtpmap:0 PCMU/8000

   --boundary1

   Content-Type: application/json
   Content-ID: <12155551000@example.com>

   ["vcard",[["version",{},"text","4.0"],["fn",{},"text","Q Branch"],
    ["org",{},"text","MI6;Q Branch Spy Gadgets"],["photo",{},"uri","
    https://example.com/photos/quartermaster-256x256.png"],["logo",
    {},"uri","https://example.com/logos/mi6-256x256.jpg"],["logo",{},
    "uri","https://example.com/logos/mi6-64x64.jpg"]]]

6.  'call-reason' Call-Info Parameter

This parameter is intended to be separate and distinct from the other URI and 'purpose' tokens
that may precede these parameters.

This new parameter of the Call-Info header field is called 'call-reason'. The 'call-reason' parameter
is intended to convey a short textual message suitable for display to an end user during call
alerting. As a general guideline, this message
 be no longer than 64 characters; displays
that support this specification may be forced to truncate messages that cannot fit onto a screen.
This message conveys the caller's intention in contacting the callee. It is an optional parameter,
and the sender of a SIP request cannot guarantee that its display will be supported by the
terminating endpoint. The manner in which this reason is set by the caller is outside the scope of
this specification. In general, use of strings that could be forms of URIs or other potential strings
that could be used or interpreted as a 'clickable' action is discouraged.

SHOULD

Wendt & Peterson

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9796

Call-Info Rich Call Data

July 2025

An alternative approach would have been to use the value of Subject header field
convey the reason for the call. However, because the Subject header field has seen little
historical use in SIP implementations and its specification describes its potential use in filtering,
it seemed prudent to define a new means of carrying a call-reason indication.

[RFC3261]

 to

An example of a Call-Info header field value with the "call-reason" parameter follows:

   Call-Info: <https://example.com/jbond.json>;purpose=jcard;
    call-reason="For your ears only"

For 'call-reason' or 'verified' parameters defined in this document that do not require an
associated URI or for future parameters that do not require an associated URI, the Call-Info
header field URI should be set to the null data URI, "data:". The purpose parameter "jcard",
defined in this document, is used to avoid any conflicts or confusion with existing
implementations and previously defined purpose parameters. As an example:

   Call-Info: <data:>;purpose=jcard;
    call-reason="For your ears only"

7.  'verified' Call-Info Parameter

The 'verified' parameter extends and complements the content conveyed by the RCD-related Call-
Info header field. This parameter indicates to the recipient that the information contained in the
Call-Info header field has been verified by verification procedures for claims defined in
Section 8
of [RFC9795]
. The presence of a 'verified' parameter on a Call-Info header field should be
considered specific to the information for that Call-Info header field only. If there is a Call-Info
header field corresponding to information defined in this specification that doesn't contain a
'verified' parameter, the recipient should assume that information was not received and verified
corresponding to the verification procedures defined in

Section 8 of [RFC9795]
.

There is a single valid value associated with the 'verified' parameter of 'true'. The value 'true'
indicates to the recipient that the party that included the Call-Info header field performed a
successful verification of the information represented. As a general principle of Call-Info header
field information, the recipients' ability to trust the 'verified' parameter is based on the trusted
relationship with the party from whom they are receiving the SIP request.

The following is an example where the parameter verified="true" is used to represent that a
verification procedure has been performed within a trusted domain to indicate the "icon" URL
has been successfully verified:

   Call-Info: <https://example.com/jbond.png>;purpose=icon;
    verified="true"

Wendt & Peterson

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9796

Call-Info Rich Call Data

July 2025

In addition to the use of the indication of successful verification of RCD information, an
important usage of the 'verified' parameter is to indicate verification of display-name
information, sometimes referred to as calling name or CNAM.

In the following example, a call was delivered via an NNI to a terminating provider with the
following STIR RCD PASSporT.

   Protected Header
   {
     "alg":"ES256",
     "typ":"passport",
     "ppt":"rcd",
     "x5u":"https://cert.example.org/passport.pem"
   }
   Payload
   {
     "dest":{"tn":["12025551001"]},
     "iat":1443208345,
     "orig":{"tn":"12025551000"},
     "rcd":{"nam":"James Bond","icn":"https://example.com/jbond.png"}
   }

The terminating provider receives a SIP INVITE with an identity header containing the STIR RCD
PASSporT that is verified through a verification service. The provider then wants to deliver the
call to an end device in the trusted and authenticated UNI network. The provider uses local
policies to determine the information to present to the end device. The following example SIP
INVITE could be used to represent the RCD information using two Call-Info header fields.
Because both the icon and calling name have passed verification, a Call-Info header for the "icon"
is added with a verified="true" parameter, and the use of Call-Info with a null data URI is used,
as discussed in the "call-reason" section above. This document defines that the display-name
information in either the From and/or P-Asserted-ID header field has been verified via RCD
PASSporT verification procedures when the following is present: a 'purpose' parameter tokens of
"jcard", a Call-Info header field with a null data URI "data:", and a verified parameter equal to
"true".

Example SIP INVITE described above:

Wendt & Peterson

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9796

Call-Info Rich Call Data

July 2025

   INVITE sip:qbranch@example.com SIP/2.0
   Via: SIP/2.0/TLS pc33.atlanta.example.com;branch=z9hG4bKnashds8
   To: "QBranch" <sip:qbranch@example.com>
   From: "James Bond" <sip:12155551000@example.com;user=phone>;
    tag=1928>
   Call-ID: a84b4c76e66710
   Call-Info: <https://example.com/jbond.png>;purpose=icon;
    verified="true"
   Call-Info: <data:>;purpose=jcard;verified="true"
   CSeq: 314159 INVITE
   Max-Forwards: 70
   Date: Fri, 25 Sep 2025 19:12:25 GMT
   Contact: <sip:12155551000@gateway.example.com>
   Content-Type: application/sdp

   v=0
   o=UserA 2890844526 2890844526 IN IP4 pc33.atlanta.example.com
   s=Session SDP
   c=IN IP4 pc33.atlanta.example.com
   t=0 0
   m=audio 49172 RTP/AVP 0
   a=rtpmap:0 PCMU/8000

8.  'integrity' Call-Info Parameter

The 'integrity' parameter extends and complements the integrity information conveyed
specifically by the "rcdi" claim in the RCD-related Call-Info header field. This parameter is used
to indicate, for a URI represented in the Call-Info header field, that the resource referenced by
that URI has an associated integrity hash value, based conceptually on
[W3C-SRI] Section 6 of
.
[RFC9795]
 describes the procedures for the creation of the digest value including the hash
algorithm indicator a '-' separator and the hash value as a string. The JSON pointer object
container described as the container of the 'rcdi' hashes is not necessary because each hash
value should only correspond to a single URI. Corresponding to guidance defined in
[RFC9795]
SHA-384, and SHA-512. These hash algorithms are identified by "sha256", "sha384", and "sha512",
respectively.

, implementations of this specification

 support the hash algorithms SHA-256,

Section 6 of

MUST

Assuming the URI and the resource pointing to the URI don't change between the STIR RCD
PASSporT and the Call- Info URI value, the integrity value can typically be used as the same
corresponding string in both the "rcdi" claim and the 'integrity' parameter.

Note: When the 'rcdi' claim is part of the successfully verified RCD PASSporT, the
Call-Info Header Field should include both the 'verified' and 'integrity' parameters.
Creation of a Call-Info header field based on an identity header field that carries
RCD claims that does not pass verification procedures is not suggested (i.e., the
inclusion of an 'integrity' parameter without a properly included 'verified'
parameter).

Example STIR RCD PASSporT:

Wendt & Peterson

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9796

Call-Info Rich Call Data

July 2025

   Protected Header
   {
     "alg":"ES256",
     "typ":"passport",
     "ppt":"rcd",
     "x5u":"https://cert.example.org/passport.pem"
   }
   Payload
   {
     "crn": "Rendezvous for Little Nellie",
     "dest": {"tn": ["12155551001"]},
     "iat": 1443208345,
     "orig": {"tn": "12025551000"},
     "rcd": {
       "nam": "Q Branch Spy Gadgets",
       "icn": "https://example.com/photos/q-256x256.png"
     },
     "rcdi": {
       "/icn": "sha256-RojgWwU6xUtI4q82+kHPyHm1JKbm7+663bMvzymhkl4"
     }
   }

Example corresponding SIP INVITE with Call-Info information derived from RCD information
above:

   INVITE sip:qbranch@example.com SIP/2.0
   Via: SIP/2.0/TLS pc33.atlanta.example.com;branch=z9hG4bKnashds8
   To: "James Bond" <sip:12155551001@example.com;user=phone>
   From: "Q Branch Spy Gadgets" <sip:12025551000@example.com;
    user=phone>;tag=1928>
   Call-ID: a84b4c76e66710
   Call-Info: <https://example.com/photos/q-256x256.png>;purpose=
    icon;verified="true";integrity="sha256-RojgWwU6xUtI4q82+kHPyHm
    1JKbm7+663bMvzymhkl4"
   Call-Info: <data:>;purpose=jcard;call-reason="Rendezvous for
    Little Nellie";verified="true"
   Call-Info: <data:>;purpose=jcard;verified="true"
   CSeq: 314159 INVITE
   Max-Forwards: 70
   Date: Fri, 25 Sep 2025 19:12:25 GMT
   Contact: <sip:12155551000@gateway.example.com>
   Content-Type: application/sdp

   v=0
   o=UserA 2890844526 2890844526 IN IP4 pc33.atlanta.example.com
   s=Session SDP
   c=IN IP4 pc33.atlanta.example.com
   t=0 0
   m=audio 49172 RTP/AVP 0
   a=rtpmap:0 PCMU/8000

Wendt & Peterson

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9796

Call-Info Rich Call Data

July 2025

9.  Usage and an Example of Call-Info for RCD

[RFC3261]

. The general management and provisioning of RCD for an

The procedures for the usage of URIs and 'purpose' parameter tokens should follow the
procedures defined in
initiating party requires a lot of validation of information regarding that specific initiating party,
which is out of scope of this document. Since the 'rcd' Call-Info header field is verified during the
transition from the Network-to-Network Interface (NNI) to the User-to-Network Interface (UNI),
a common approach is to extract and translate the verified information from a received STIR
'rcd' PASSporT into this header field. This allows the RCD to be delivered to the end user device
through the UNI.

The following example provides both the STIR RCD PASSporT and the corresponding set of Call-
Info header fields showing the use of multiple Call-Info 'purpose' tokens to indicate "jCard" and
"icon" and also a 'call-reason' Call-Info parameter:

Example STIR RCD PASSporT:

   Protected Header
   {
      "alg":"ES256",
      "typ":"passport",
      "ppt":"rcd",
      "x5u":"https://cert.example.org/passport.pem"
   }
   Payload
   {
      "crn":"For your ears only",
      "dest":{"tn":["12025551001"]},
      "iat":1443208345,
      "orig":{"tn":"12025551000"},
      "rcd":{
        "jcl":"https://example.com/qbranch.json",
        "icn":"https://example.com/jbond.png"
      },
      "rcdi": {
        "/jcl": "sha256-yHm1JKbm7+663bMvzymhkl4RojgWwU6xUtI4q82+kHP"
        "/icn": "sha256-RojgWwU6xUtI4q82+kHPyHm1JKbm7+663bMvzymhkl4"
      }
   }

Example Call-Info header fields:

   Call-Info: <data:>;purpose=jcard;verified="true"
   Call-Info: <https://example.com/jbond.json>;purpose=jcard;verified
    =true;integrity="sha256-yHm1JKbm7+663bMvzymhkl4RojgWwU6xUtI4q82
    +kHP"
   Call-Info: <https://example.com/jbond.png>;purpose=icon;
    call-reason="For your ears only";verified=true;integrity=
    "sha256-RojgWwU6xUtI4q82+kHPyHm1JKbm7+663bMvzymhkl4"

Wendt & Peterson

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9796

Call-Info Rich Call Data

July 2025

10.  Usage of jCard and Property-Specific Usage

Beyond the definition of the specific properties or JSON arrays associated with each property,
this specification defines a few rules beyond those defined in
use of jCard for Call-Info and RCD to ensure there is a minimum level of supported properties to
which every implementation of this specification should adhere. This includes support for
interpreting the value of these properties and the ability to render in some appropriate form the
display capabilities of common telephone devices as well as applications, and also includes
requirements specific to textual and graphics-capable displays.

 that are specific to the

[RFC7095]

10.1.  Usage of URIs in jCard

MUST NOT

When one or more URIs are used in a jCard, it is important to note that any URI-referenced data,
with the exception of the top-level usage of "jcl" as a URI to the jCard itself
 contain any
URI references. In other words, the jCard can have URI references as defined in the jCard
specification and this document, but the content referenced by those URIs
URIs; therefore, the client
that are present in that specific URI-linked content are not rendered. The purpose of this is to
control the security and more specifically to align with the content-integrity mechanism defined
in
required or even supported by the typical use of current jCard properties. However, because
jCard is extensible, this rule is set to restrict further extension without the proper consideration
of security and integrity properties of both Call-Info usage as well as the RCD and STIR signing of
the data

. There is not anticipated to be need for which deeper URI references would be

 ensure that those URI references are not followed, and any URIs

[RFC9795] [RFC8224]
.

[RFC9795]

 have any

MUST NOT

MUST

10.2.  Usage of Multimedia Data in jCard or with the "icon" Call-Info
'purpose' Token

For the use of the 'purpose' token "icon" or for the cases where the jCard either incorporates
URIs or includes digital images and sounds directly via Base64 encoding (
this document provides guidance at the time of writing that can be adopted to facilitate the
successful decoding and rendering of these images and media formats. Note that media formats
are likely something implementers need to consider for their specific application.

Section 4 of [RFC4648]

),

 or JPEG

[ISOPNG]

[ITUJPEG]

, as these files are commonly used to support 24-bit RGB images.

For images, such as for the "photo" and "logo" properties, the default image formats
PNG
Supporting older telephone devices that only support bitmap (BMP) images
lower bit range (e.g., 16-bit, 8-bit, or 1-bit), or grayscale, or 1-bit black and white color displays,
should be considered optional or even not recommended because, at the time of writing, they are
becoming increasingly rare (i.e., typically, devices either have color or color-aware graphical
displays that support PNG or JPEG formats or they are exclusively textual displays).

[RFC7903]

SHOULD

 with a

 be

Wendt & Peterson

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9796

Call-Info Rich Call Data

July 2025

In addition, vector images are increasingly popular to use as icons because they support scalable
images without having to send multiple resolutions. The SVG format has gained wide support as
of this writing as a common format for vector images. At a minimum, the SVG Tiny 1.2
specification
devices.

 be supported as an additional default format for

[W3C-SVGTiny1.2] SHOULD

SHOULD

 be concatenated onto the end of a file name, but before the file

For the cases where image files are referenced by URIs as file resources, this document defines a
character string that
extension, that signals the height and width of the image to the end device for the convenience
of determining the appropriate resolution to retrieve files without the need to retrieve all the
image files. It is also recommended that images have a square aspect ratio with equal height and
width and with a power-of-two value for the number of pixels (e.g., 32x32, 128x128, 512x512).
The format of the string should be "filename-HxW", where "filename" is a unique string
representing the file, "H" represents the height in pixels, and "W" represents the width in pixels.

It is appropriate and useful to include multiple versions of images or sounds so that endpoints
that cannot support all formats or resolutions can select the format they do support. The
 convention is for files that refer to the same content to use the same filename
RECOMMENDED
portion. If the image format has a specific resolution, the HxW portion of the filename should
correspond to the pixel resolution. The file extension should reference the file type (e.g.,
filename.png, filename.svg, or filename.jpg) or (e.g., filename-32x32.png, filename-64x64.png,
filename.svg, filename-32x32.jpg, or filename-64x64.jpg).

Because this is a complex and often debated topic that has evolved over the many years of
advances in image coding and display technologies, this specification suggests relying on either
future specifications or industry forum specifications that might correspond to supporting
particular classes of devices to further define how URIs can reference appropriate image
formats and files.

For audio files, the recommendation is to provide mp3, m4a or mp4, or wav files
although the usage of sound (for example, a special ring tone for a particular caller) is not well
defined in this specification. Future documents should consider both usage and potential
security risks of playing sounds that are not specifically authorized by a device user.

[RFC2361]
,

10.3.  Cardinality

Property cardinalities are indicated, for convenience, using the following notation and follow
the guidance of jCard
Section 3.6
):

, which is based on ABNF (see

 and vCard

[RFC6350]

[RFC7095]

[RFC5234],

Cardinality Meaning

1

*1

1*

Exactly one instance per jCard

MUST

 be present.

Exactly one instance per jCard

MAY

 be present.

One or more instances per jCard

MUST

 be present.

Wendt & Peterson

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9796

Call-Info Rich Call Data

July 2025

Cardinality Meaning

*

Table 1

One or more instances per jCard

MAY

 be present.

10.4.  Identification Properties

The following properties, initially defined in
entity associated with the jCard. This subset of properties selected for this document are
relevant to telephone and messaging applications.

, hold the identity information of the

[RFC6350]

10.4.1.  "fn" Property

The "fn" property provides formatted text corresponding to the name of the object the jCard
[RFC6350], Section 6.2.1
.
represents. Reference:

Value type:
Cardinality:

A single text value.
1*

Example:
  ["fn", {}, "text", "Mr. John Q. Public\, Esq."]

10.4.2.  "n" Property

The "n" property provides the components of the name of the object the jCard represents.
Reference:

[RFC6350], Section 6.2.2
.

Value type:
Cardinality:

A single structured text value. Each component can have multiple values.
*1

Example:
  ["n", {}, "text", "Public;John;Quinlan;Mr.;Esq."]
  ["n", {}, "text", "Stevenson;John;Philip,Paul;Dr.;Jr.,M.D.,A.C.P."]

10.4.3.  "nickname" Property

The "nickname" property provides the text corresponding to the nickname of the object the
jCard represents. Reference:

[RFC6350], Section 6.2.3
.

Value type:
Cardinality:

One or more text values separated by a COMMA character (U+002C).
*

Wendt & Peterson

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9796

Call-Info Rich Call Data

July 2025

Example:
  ["nickname", {}, "text", "Robbie"]
  ["nickname", {}, "text", "Jim,Jimmie"]
  ["nickname", {}, "text", "TYPE=work:Boss"]

10.4.4.  "photo" Property

The "photo" property provides image or photograph information that annotates some aspect of
the object the jCard represents. Reference:

[RFC6350], Section 6.2.4
.

In addition to the definition of jCard, and to promote interoperability and proper formatting and
rendering of images, the photo
SHOULD
256x256, 512x512, or 1024x1024 pixels.

 correspond to a square image with the size of 128x128,

Value type:
Cardinality:

A single URI.
*

Example:
  ["photo", {}, "uri", "http://www.example.com/jqpublic-256x256.png"]

10.5.  Delivery Addressing Properties

This property is concerned with information related to the delivery address of the jCard object.

10.5.1.  "adr" Property

The "adr" property provides the delivery address of the object the jCard represents. Reference:
[RFC6350], Section 6.3.1
.

Value type:
Cardinality:

A single structured text value separated by the SEMICOLON character (U+003B).
*

Example:

  ["adr", {"type":"work"}, "text",
    ["", "", "3100 Massachusetts Avenue NW", "Washington", "DC",
      "20008", "U.S.A."]
  ]

"adr" also allows a structured value element that itself has multiple values. In this case, the
element of the array describing the structured value is itself an array with one element for each
of the component's multiple values. The following example shows alternate values for the
address string.

Wendt & Peterson

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9796

Call-Info Rich Call Data

July 2025

Example:

  ["adr", {"type":"work"}, "text",
    ["", "", ["3100 Massachusetts Avenue NW","Embassy of the
      United Kingdom"], "Washington", "DC", "20008", "U.S.A."]
  ]

10.6.  Communications Properties

These properties describe how to communicate with the object the jCard represents.

10.6.1.  "tel" Property

The "tel" property provides the telephone number for the object the jCard represents. Reference:
[RFC6350], Section 6.4.1
.

Relative to the SIP From header field value, this information may provide an alternate telephone
number or other related telephone numbers for other uses.

It is important to note that any of the instances of the "tel" property should not be considered
part of the authentication or verification part of STIR
[RFC8225]
claim in the PASSporT
purposes aligned with the general usage of jCard and vCard, but the potential confusion of the
callee when provided with multiple telephone numbers instead of the actual, verified telephone
number should be considered from a general policy point of view.

. These telephone numbers can be for contact, fax, or other

 or required to match the "orig"

[RFC8224]

Value type:

By default, it is a single free-form text value (for backward compatibility with

vCard 3), but it
"tel", as specified in

SHOULD

 be reset to a URI value. It is expected that the URI scheme will be

[RFC3966]

, but other schemes

MAY

 be used.

Cardinality:

*

Example:
  ["tel", { "type": ["voice", "text", "cell"], "pref": "1" }, "uri",
   "tel:+1-202-555-1000"]
  ["tel", { "type": ["fax"] }, "uri", "tel:+1-202-555-1001"]

10.6.2.  "email" Property

The "email" property provides the electronic mail address of the object the jCard represents.
Reference:

[RFC6350], Section 6.4.2
.

Value type:
Cardinality:

A single text value.
*

Wendt & Peterson

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9796

Call-Info Rich Call Data

July 2025

Example:
  ["email", {"type":"work"}, "text", "jqpublic@xyz.example.com"]
  ["email", {"pref":"1"}, "text", "jane_doe@example.com"]

10.6.3.  "lang" Property

The "lang" property indicates the language(s) that may be used for communicating with the
object the jCard represents. Reference:

[RFC6350], Section 6.4.4
.

Value type:
Cardinality:

A single language-tag value.
*

Example:
  ["lang", {"type":"work", "pref":"1"}, "language-tag", "en"]
  ["lang", {"type":"work", "pref":"2"}, "language-tag", "fr"]
  ["lang", {"type":"home"}, "language-tag", "fr"]

10.7.  Geographical Properties

These properties provide geographical information associated with the object the jCard
represents.

10.7.1.  "tz" Property

The "tz" property provides the time zone of the object the jCard represents. Reference:
Section 6.5.1
.

[RFC6350],

Note: The reference for time-zone names is

<https://www.iana.org/time-zones>
.

Value type:
value.
Cardinality:

The default is a single text value. It can also be reset to a single URI or a UTC-offset

*

Example:
  ["tz", {}, "text", "America/New_York"]

10.7.2.  "geo" Property

The "geo" property provides the global positioning of the object the jCard represents. Reference:
[RFC6350], Section 6.5.2
.

Value type:
Cardinality:

A single URI.
*

Wendt & Peterson

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9796

Call-Info Rich Call Data

July 2025

Example:
  ["geo", {}, "uri", "geo:37.386013,-122.082932"]

10.8.  Organizational Properties

These properties are concerned with information associated with characteristics of the
organization or organizational units of the object that the jCard represents.

10.8.1.  "title" Property

The "title" property provides the position or job of the object the jCard represents. Reference
[RFC6350], Section 6.6.1
.

Value type:
Cardinality:

A single text value.
*

Example:
  ["title", {}, "text", "Research Scientist"]

10.8.2.  "role" Property

The "role" property provides the position or job of the object the jCard represents. Reference
[RFC6350], Section 6.6.2
.

Value type:
Cardinality:

A single text value.
*

Example:
  ["role", {}, "text", "Project Leader"]

10.8.3.  "logo" Property

The "logo" property specifies a graphic image of a logo associated with the object the jCard
[RFC6350], Section 6.6.3
.
represents. Reference

Value type:
Cardinality:

A single URI.
*

Example:
  ["logo", {}, "uri", "http://www.example.com/abccorp-512x512.jpg"]

  ["logo", {}, "uri", "data:image/jpeg;base64,MIICajCCAdOgAwIBAgIC
   AQEEBQAwdzELMAkGA1UEBhMCVVMxLDAqBgNVBAoTI05ldHNjYXBlIENvbW11bm
   ljYXRpb25zIENvcnBvcmF0aW9uMRwwGgYDVQQLExNJbmZvcm1hdGlvbiBTeXN0
   <...the remainder of base64-encoded data...>"]

Wendt & Peterson

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9796

Call-Info Rich Call Data

July 2025

10.8.4.  "org" Property

The "org" property specifies the organizational name and units of the object the jCard
represents. Reference

[RFC6350], Section 6.6.4
.

Value type:

A single structured text value consisting of components separated by the

SEMICOLON character (U+003B).

Cardinality:

*

Example:
  ["org", {}, "text", "ABC\, Inc.;North American Division;Marketing"]

10.9.  Explanatory Properties

These properties provide additional information such as notes or revisions specific to the jCard.

10.9.1.  "categories" Property

The "categories" property specifies application category information about the object the jCard
[RFC6350], Section 6.7.1
.
represents. Reference:

Value type:
Cardinality:

One or more text values separated by a COMMA character (U+002C).
*

Example:
  ["categories", {}, "text", "TRAVEL AGENT"]

  ["categories", {}, "text", "INTERNET,IETF,INDUSTRY"]

10.9.2.  "note" Property

The "note" property specifies supplemental information or a comment about the object the jCard
represents. Reference:

[RFC6350], Section 6.7.2
.

Value type:
Cardinality:

A single text value.
*

Example:
  ["note", {}, "text", "This fax number is operational 0800 to 1715
   EST\, Mon-Fri."]

Wendt & Peterson

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9796

Call-Info Rich Call Data

July 2025

10.9.3.  "sound" Property

The "sound" property specifies digital sound content information that annotates some aspect of
the object the jCard represents. This property is often used to specify the proper pronunciation
of the name property value of the jCard. Reference:

[RFC6350], Section 6.7.5
.

Value type:
Cardinality:

A single URI.
*

Example:
  ["sound", {}, "uri", "https://www.example.com/pub/logos
   /abccorp.mp3"]

  ["sound", {}, "uri", "data:audio/basic;base64,MIICajCCAdOgAwIBA
   gICBEAQEEBQAwdzELMAkGA1UEBhMCVVMxLDAqBgNVBAoTI05ldHNjYXBlIENvb
   W11bmljYXRpb25zIENvcnBvcmF0aW9uMRwwGgYDVQQLExNJbmZvcm1hdGlvbiB
   <...the remainder of base64-encoded data...>"]

10.9.4.  "uid" Property

The "uid" property specifies a globally unique identifier corresponding to the object the jCard
[RFC6350], Section 6.7.6
.
represents. Reference:

Value type:
Cardinality:

A single URI value. It
*1

MAY

 also be reset to free-form text.

Example:
  ["uid", {}, "uri", "urn:uuid:f81d4fae-7dec-11d0-a765-00a0c91e6bf6"]

10.9.5.  "url" Property

The "url" property specifies a uniform resource locator associated with the object the jCard
represents. Reference:

[RFC6350], Section 6.7.8
.

There are potential security and privacy implications of providing URLs with telephone calls.

The end client receiving a jCard with a "url" property
 only display the URL and not
automatically follow the URL or provide an automatic preview of the URL. In addition, it
generally adhere to good practice to make it clear to the user that it is their choice whether to
follow the URL in a browser context consistent with all of the common browser security and
privacy practices available on most consumer OS environments.

MUST

MUST

Value type:
Cardinality:

A single uri value.
*

Wendt & Peterson

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9796

Call-Info Rich Call Data

July 2025

Example:
  ["url", {}, "uri", "https://example.org/french-rest/chezchic.html"]

10.9.6.  "version" Property

The "version" property
MUST
specification used to format this vCard. Reference:

[RFC6350], Section 6.7.9
.

 be included and is intended to specify the version of the vCard

Value type:
Cardinality:

A single text value.
1

Example:
  ["version", {}, "text", "4.0"]

11.  Extension of jCard

Part of the intent of using jCard is to leverage its extensibility to define new properties to relay
new information related to a caller. This capability is inherently supported as part of standard
extensibility. However, usage of those new properties should be published and registered
following

 or as defined in future specifications.

[RFC7095], Section 3.6

12.  IANA Considerations

12.1.  "jcard" Purpose Parameter Value

This document defines the "jcard" value for the 'purpose' parameter of the Call-Info header field
[RFC3261]
. IANA has added this document to the list of references for the 'purpose' value of Call-
Info in the "Header Field Parameters and Parameter Values" registry within the "Session
Initiation Protocol (SIP) Parameters" registry group.

12.2.  SIP Call-Info Header Field 'call-reason' Parameter

This document defines the 'call-reason' generic parameter for use in the Call-Info header field in
the "Header Field Parameters and Parameter Values" registry defined by
parameter's token is "call-reason", and it takes the value of a quoted string.

[RFC3968]

. The

Header Field

Parameter Name

Predefined Values

Reference

Call-Info

call-reason

No

RFC 9796

Table 2

Wendt & Peterson

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9796

Call-Info Rich Call Data

July 2025

12.3.  SIP Call-Info Header Field 'verified' Parameter

This document defines the 'verified' generic parameter for use in the Call-Info header field in the
. The parameter's
"Header Field Parameters and Parameter Values" registry defined by
token is "verified", and it takes the value of a quoted string that can only be "true".

[RFC3968]

Header Field

Parameter Name

Predefined Values

Reference

Call-Info

verified

Yes

RFC 9796

Table 3

12.4.  SIP Call-Info Header Field 'integrity' Parameter

This document defines the 'integrity' generic parameter for use as a new parameter in the Call-
Info header field in the "Header Field Parameters and Parameter Values" registry defined by
[RFC3968]

. The parameter's token is "integrity", and it takes the value of a quoted string.

Header Field

Parameter Name

Predefined Values

Reference

Call-Info

integrity

No

RFC 9796

Table 4

13.  Security Considerations

Revealing information such as the name, location, and affiliation of a person necessarily entails
certain privacy risks. The SIP Call-Info header field has no particular confidentiality
requirement, as the information sent in SIP is in the clear anyway. Transport-level security can
be used to hide information from eavesdroppers, and the same confidentiality mechanisms
would protect any Call-Info or jCard information carried or referred to in SIP.

, should be followed. This framework enables digital signatures to verify the issuer of

The use of the Call-Info header for transporting RCD ('rcd') is intended primarily for providing
verified information at the termination of a call, where a verification service has a trusted UNI
relationship with the user agent. To ensure the integrity and authenticity of this data, the
security framework established by STIR, including the use of the 'rcd'PASSporT as defined in
[RFC9795]
assertions related to the calling party's identity, distinguishing persistent identity attributes from
transient, per-call details. Implementers should also consider certificate-based constraints to
ensure proper binding between caller identity assertions and call-specific metadata while
maintaining the integrity of the information throughout transmission. Since Call-Info serves as a
means to convey verified caller information to the end user, mechanisms should be in place to
validate the authenticity of the assertion, enforce appropriate certificate associations, and
preserve the trustworthiness of RCD from origination to termination.

Wendt & Peterson

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9796

Call-Info Rich Call Data

July 2025

[RFC9795]

[RFC3261]

 and the various extensions to SIP which includes STIR
The SIP framework, defined in
[RFC8224]
, has always provided mechanisms to assert information about the
 and RCD
person or entity behind the call. This feature that can be a benefit to the SIP network that allows
users to help identify the calling party behind an abstract telephone number. It can also enable
the ability for actors to impersonate a calling party they are not authorized to represent. The
core security consideration that has either explicitly or implicitly been acknowledged with any
of the SIP and STIR specifications is that there be a management and policy layer that validates
the participants in the ecosystem and their use of a SIP network with telephone number
identifiers and identity-related information. Users should assess this risk and make the
appropriate adjustments to validate proper participation while following these tools following
these larger security, impersonation prevention, and privacy considerations.

The use of this specification with the insertion of metadata related to a caller or the purpose of
the call should recognize the risk that this information can be viewed by those network elements
and participants in the delivery of the SIP call. The insertion of media directly or via Base64
encoding or using a remote URI that query network resources should be considered as a
potential threat vector to the user or user agent that could potentially allow the parsing of
documents crafted to trigger a bug or install a virus. Remote access to URI content should
additionally be considered as potentially exposing information about that user or user agent.
Some sensitive users may desire the ability to control or disable these mechanisms entirely, and
methods to restrict or disable the potential exposure should be considered to mitigate these
concerns. Largely, any information that is included in RCD should be considered public, and this
specification does not define any mechanism to protect this information beyond the security and
privacy associated with the SIP signaling itself. This is a property that is consistent with SIP more
generally, and this specification follows a similar pattern for its use.

This specification contains the ability to include media resources and URI and URL resource
references to media resources that could pose a threat when referencing or decoding the
content of these media resources, which is similar to threats that web browsers and other media
decoding applications must be concerned about. Network administrators should consider a
network-specific set of policies or best practices for the use and hosting of media content that is
agreed to contain validated media resources that have been evaluated to not pose a security
threat to the participants or the devices supported in the ecosystem.

14.  References

14.1.  Normative References

[ISOPNG]

[ITUJPEG]

,

ISO/IEC "Information technology -- Computer graphics and image processing --
Portable Network Graphics (PNG), Functional specification" ISO/IEC 15948:2004
,
March 2004,

<https://www.iso.org/standard/29581.html>

.

,

,

ITU-T "Information technology - Digital compression and coding of continuous-
tone still images: JPEG File Interchange Format (JFIF)" ITU-T Recommendation
T.871 ISO/IEC 10918-5
<https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-T.871-201105-I/
en>

, May 2013,

,

.

,

Wendt & Peterson

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9796

Call-Info Rich Call Data

July 2025

[RFC2119]

[RFC2392]

[RFC3261]

[RFC3966]

[RFC3968]

[RFC4648]

[RFC5234]

[RFC6350]

[RFC7095]

[RFC7519]

[RFC7852]

[RFC7903]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8224]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Levinson, E. "Content-ID and Message-ID Uniform Resource Locators" RFC
2392 DOI 10.17487/RFC2392
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
,
rfc2392>

, August 1998,

,

.

,

Rosenberg, J. Schulzrinne, H. Camarillo, G. Johnston, A. Peterson, J. Sparks, R.
Handley, M.
, and
10.17487/RFC3261

,
E. Schooler "SIP: Session Initiation Protocol" RFC 3261 DOI
,
, June 2002,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3261>

,
.

,

,

,

,

,

Schulzrinne, H. "The tel URI for Telephone Numbers" RFC 3966 DOI 10.17487/
RFC3966

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3966>

, December 2004,

,

,

,

.

,

Camarillo, G. "The Internet Assigned Number Authority (IANA) Header Field
Parameter Registry for the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)" BCP 98 RFC 3968
DOI 10.17487/RFC3968
rfc3968>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, December 2004,

,

,

.

,

Josefsson, S. "The Base16, Base32, and Base64 Data Encodings" RFC 4648 DOI
10.17487/RFC4648

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4648>

, October 2006,

,

,

.

Crocker, D., Ed.
 and
ABNF" STD 68 RFC 5234 DOI 10.17487/RFC5234
,
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5234>

,

,

.

P. Overell "Augmented BNF for Syntax Specifications:

, January 2008,

<https://

Perreault, S. "vCard Format Specification" RFC 6350 DOI 10.17487/RFC6350
,
August 2011,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6350>

,

.

,

Kewisch, P. "jCard: The JSON Format for vCard" RFC 7095 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7095

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7095>

, January 2014,

,

,

,

.

Jones, M. Bradley, J.
,
10.17487/RFC7519

, and

N. Sakimura "JSON Web Token (JWT)" RFC 7519 DOI

,

,

,

, May 2015,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7519>

.

,

Gellens, R. Rosen, B. Tschofenig, H. Marshall, R.
,
,
"Additional Data Related to an Emergency Call" RFC 7852 DOI 10.17487/
,
RFC7852

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7852>

J. Winterbottom

, July 2016,

, and

,

.

,

Leonard, S. "Windows Image Media Types" RFC 7903 DOI 10.17487/RFC7903
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7903>
September 2016,

.

,

,

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Peterson, J. Jennings, C. Rescorla, E.
, and
Management in the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)" RFC 8224 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8224

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8224>

C. Wendt "Authenticated Identity

, February 2018,

,

,

,

,

.

Wendt & Peterson

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9796

Call-Info Rich Call Data

July 2025

[RFC8225]

[RFC8259]

[RFC9795]

[W3C-SRI]

Wendt, C.
10.17487/RFC8225

J. Peterson "PASSporT: Personal Assertion Token" RFC 8225 DOI

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8225>

,
, February 2018,

 and

,

.

,

Bray, T., Ed. "The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data Interchange Format"
STD 90 RFC 8259 DOI 10.17487/RFC8259
editor.org/info/rfc8259>

, December 2017,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

,

 and

Wendt, C.
Rich Call Data" RFC 9795 DOI 10.17487/RFC9795
editor.org/info/rfc9795>
.

J. Peterson "Personal Assertion Token (PASSporT) Extension for
<https://www.rfc-
,

, July 2025,

,
,

,

Akhawe, D., Ed. Braun, F., Ed. Marier, F., Ed.
"Subresource Integrity" W3C Recommendation
,
www.w3.org/TR/2016/REC-SRI-20160623/>

.

,

, and

J. Weinberger, Ed.

,

, 23 June 2016,

<https://

[W3C-SVGTiny1.2]

,

,

Anderssone, O., Ed. Berjon, R., Ed. Dahlström, E., Ed. Emmons, A., Ed.
,
Ferraiolo, J., Ed. Grasso, A., Ed. Hardy, V., Ed. Hayman, S., Ed. Jackson, D., Ed.
,
Lilley, C., Ed. McCormack, C., Ed. Neumann, A., Ed. Northway, C., Ed. Quint, A.,
A. Shellshear, Ed. "Scalable Vector
Ed. Ramani, N., Ed. Schepers, D., Ed.
, and
,
Graphics (SVG) Tiny 1.2 Specification" W3C Recommendation
,
, 22 December
2008,

<https://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-SVGTiny12-20081222/>

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

.

14.2.  Informative References

[RFC2361]

[RFC3325]

[RFC7340]

Fleischman, E. "WAVE and AVI Codec Registries" RFC 2361 DOI 10.17487/
RFC2361

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2361>

,
, June 1998,

,

,

.

, and

Jennings, C. Peterson, J.
,
Initiation Protocol (SIP) for Asserted Identity within Trusted Networks" RFC
3325 DOI 10.17487/RFC3325
, November 2002,
,
rfc3325>

M. Watson "Private Extensions to the Session

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

.

,

Peterson, J. Schulzrinne, H.
Problem Statement and Requirements" RFC 7340 DOI 10.17487/RFC7340
September 2014,

H. Tschofenig "Secure Telephone Identity
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7340>

, and

,

,

,

.

Acknowledgements

David Hancock Alec Fenichel Paul Kyzivat Yi Jing
We would like to thank
of the SIPCORE and STIR working groups and ATIS/SIP Forum IPNNI for their helpful suggestions
and comments during the creation of this document.

 and other members

,

,

,

Wendt & Peterson

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 9796

Call-Info Rich Call Data

July 2025

Authors' Addresses

Chris Wendt
Somos
United States of America
Email:

chris@appliedbits.com

Jon Peterson
TransUnion
United States of America
Email:

jon.peterson@transunion.com

Wendt & Peterson

Standards Track

Page 29

