Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9830
9012
Standards Track
September 2025
2070-1721

S. Previdi
Huawei Technologies

C. Filsfils
Cisco Systems

K. Talaulikar, Ed.
Cisco Systems

P. Mattes
Microsoft

D. Jain
Google

RFC 9830
Advertising Segment Routing Policies in BGP

Abstract

A Segment Routing (SR) Policy is an ordered list of segments (also referred to as "instructions")
that define a source-routed policy. An SR Policy consists of one or more Candidate Paths (CPs),
each comprising one or more segment lists. A headend can be provisioned with these CPs using
various mechanisms such as Command-Line Interface (CLI), Network Configuration Protocol
(NETCONF), Path Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP), or BGP.

This document specifies how BGP can be used to distribute SR Policy CPs. It introduces a BGP
SAFI for advertising a CP of an SR Policy and defines sub-TLVs for the Tunnel Encapsulation
Attribute to signal information related to these CPs.

Furthermore, this document updates RFC 9012 by extending the Color Extended Community to
support additional steering modes over SR Policy.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9830
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Previdi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9830

Segment Routing Policies in BGP

September 2025

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

2.  SR Policy Encoding

2.1.  SR Policy SAFI and NLRI

2.2.  SR Policy and Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute

2.3.  Applicability of Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute Sub-TLVs

2.4.  SR Policy Sub-TLVs

2.4.1.  Preference Sub-TLV

2.4.2.  Binding SID Sub-TLV

2.4.3.  SRv6 Binding SID Sub-TLV

2.4.4.  Segment List Sub-TLV

2.4.5.  Explicit NULL Label Policy Sub-TLV

2.4.6.  SR Policy Priority Sub-TLV

2.4.7.  SR Policy Candidate Path Name Sub-TLV

2.4.8.  SR Policy Name Sub-TLV

3.  Color Extended Community

4.  SR Policy Operations

4.1.  Advertisement of SR Policies

4.2.  Reception of an SR Policy NLRI

4.2.1.  Validation of an SR Policy NLRI

4.2.2.  Eligibility for Local Use of an SR Policy NLRI

4.2.3.  Propagation of an SR Policy

5.  Error Handling and Fault Management

3

6

6

6

8

9

9

9

10

12

13

19

20

21

22

23

24

24

24

24

25

25

26

Previdi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9830

Segment Routing Policies in BGP

September 2025

6.  IANA Considerations

6.1.  Subsequent Address Family Identifiers (SAFI) Parameters

6.2.  BGP Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute Tunnel Types

6.3.  BGP Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute Sub-TLVs

6.4.  Color Extended Community Flags

6.5.  SR Policy Segment List Sub-TLVs

6.6.  SR Policy Binding SID Flags

6.7.  SR Policy SRv6 Binding SID Flags

6.8.  SR Policy Segment Flags

6.9.  Color Extended Community Color-Only Types

6.10. SR Policy ENLP Values

7.  Security Considerations

8.  Manageability Considerations

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

27

27

27

28

28

28

29

29

30

30

31

31

32

32

32

34

34

35

36

Segment Routing (SR)
path. Intermediate per-path states are eliminated thanks to source routing.

 allows a headend node to steer a packet flow along a specific

[RFC8402]

The headend node is said to steer a flow into an SR Policy

[RFC9256]
.

The packets steered into an SR Policy carry an ordered list of segments associated with that SR
Policy.

 further details the concepts of SR Policy and steering into an SR Policy. These apply

[RFC9256]
equally to the SR-MPLS and Segment Routing over IPv6 (SRv6) data plane instantiations of
Segment Routing using SR-MPLS and SRv6 Segment Identifiers (SIDs) as described in

[RFC8402]

.

Previdi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9830

Segment Routing Policies in BGP

September 2025

[RFC8660]
MPLS label stack for SR-MPLS.
of the Segment Routing Header (SRH).

 describes the representation and processing of this ordered list of segments as an
[RFC8986]

 describe the same for SRv6 with the use

[RFC8754]

 and

The functionality related to SR Policy described in
being incorporated in an SR Policy Module (SRPM). The following is a reminder of the high-level
functionality of SRPM:

 can be conceptually viewed as

[RFC9256]

•

Learning multiple CPs for an SR Policy via various mechanisms (CLI, NETCONF, PCEP, or
BGP).

•

Selection of the best CP for an SR Policy.

•

Associating a Binding SID (BSID) to the selected CP of an SR Policy.

•

Installation of the selected CP and its BSID in the forwarding plane.

This document specifies the use of BGP to distribute one or more of the CPs of an SR Policy to the
headend of that SR Policy. The document describes the functionality provided by BGP and, as
appropriate, provides references for the functionality, which is outside the scope of BGP (i.e.,
resides within SRPM on the headend node).

This document specifies a way of representing SR Policy CPs in BGP UPDATE messages. BGP can
then be used to propagate the SR Policy CPs to the headend nodes in a network. The usual BGP
rules for BGP propagation and best-path selection are used. At the headend of a specific SR Policy,
this will result in one or more CPs being installed into the "BGP table". These paths are then
passed to the SRPM. The SRPM may compare them to CPs learned via other mechanisms and will
choose one or more paths to be installed in the data plane. BGP itself does not install SR Policy
CPs into the data plane.

This document introduces a BGP Subsequent Address Family Identifier (SAFI) for IPv4 and IPv6
address families. In BGP UPDATE messages of those AFI/SAFIs, the Network Layer Reachability
Information (NLRI) identifies an SR Policy CP while the attributes encode the segment lists and
other details of that SR Policy CP.

While, for simplicity, the text in this document states that BGP advertises an SR Policy, it is to be
understood that BGP advertises a CP of an SR Policy and that this SR Policy might have several
other CPs provided via BGP (via an NLRI with a different distinguisher as defined in Section 2.1),
PCEP, NETCONF, or local policy configuration.

[RFC9256]

 defines the set of policies and advertises them to SR

Typically, an SR Policy Controller
Policy headend routers (typically ingress routers). These SR Policy advertisements use the BGP
extensions defined in this document. In most cases, the SR Policy advertisement is tailored for a
specific SR Policy headend; consequently, it may be transmitted over a direct BGP session (i.e.,
without intermediate BGP hops) to that headend and is not propagated any further. In such
[RFC4456]
cases, the SR Policy advertisements will not traverse any Route Reflector (RR) (see
Section 4.2.3).

 and

Previdi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9830

Segment Routing Policies in BGP

September 2025

Alternatively, a BGP egress router may advertise SR Policies that represent paths that terminate
on it. In such cases, the router can send these policies directly to each headend over a dedicated
BGP session, without necessitating any further propagation of the SR Policy.

In some situations, it is undesirable for a controller or BGP egress router to have a BGP session
to each SR Policy headend. In these situations, BGP RRs may be used to propagate the
advertisements. In certain other deployments, it may be necessary for the advertisement to
propagate through a sequence of one or more Autonomous Systems (ASes) within an SR Domain
(refer to Section 7 for the associated security considerations). To make this possible, an attribute
needs to be attached to the advertisement that enables a BGP speaker to determine whether it is
intended to be a headend for the advertised SR Policy. This is done by attaching one or more
Route Target extended communities to the advertisement

[RFC4360]
.

The BGP extensions for the advertisement of SR Policies include following components:

•

A SAFI whose NLRIs identify an SR Policy CP.

•

A Tunnel Type identifier for SR Policy and a set of sub-TLVs to be inserted into the Tunnel
[RFC9012]
Encapsulation Attribute (as defined in
as well as other information about the SR Policy.

) specifying segment lists of the SR Policy CP

•

One or more IPv4 address-specific format Route Target extended community (
attached to the SR Policy CP advertisement that indicates the intended headend of such an
SR Policy CP advertisement.

[RFC4360]
)

[RFC9012]

, where the Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute is associated with a BGP route update

The SR Policy SAFI route updates utilize the Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute to signal an SR
Policy, which itself functions as a tunnel. This usage differs notably from the approach described
in
(e.g., for Internet or VPN routes) to specify the tunnel used for forwarding traffic. This document
does not modify or supersede the usage of the Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute for existing AFI/
SAFIs as defined in
Attribute for the SR Policy SAFI are provided in Sections 2.2 and 2.3.

. Details regarding the processing of the Tunnel Encapsulation

[RFC9012]

The northbound advertisement of the operational state of the SR Policy CPs as part of BGP - Link
State (BGP-LS)

 topology information is specified in

[BGP-LS-SR-POLICY]
.

[RFC9552]

The signaling of Dynamic and Composite CPs (Sections 5.2 and 5.3, respectively, of
outside the scope of this document.

[RFC9256]

) is

The Color Extended Community (as defined in
Section 8.8 of [RFC9256]
Policy, as described in
with modifications to the format of the Flags field of the Color Extended Community by using the
two leftmost bits of that field.

[RFC9012]
. Section 3 of this document updates

) is used to steer traffic into an SR

[RFC9012]

Previdi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9830

Segment Routing Policies in BGP

September 2025

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  SR Policy Encoding

2.1.  SR Policy SAFI and NLRI

The SR Policy SAFI with code point 73 is introduced in this document. The AFI used
IPv4(1) or IPv6(2).

MUST

 be

The SR Policy SAFI uses the NLRI format defined as follows:

+------------------+
|  NLRI Length     | 1 octet
+------------------+
|  Distinguisher   | 4 octets
+------------------+
|  Color           | 4 octets
+------------------+
|  Endpoint        | 4 or 16 octets
+------------------+

Figure 1: SR Policy SAFI Format

Where:

NLRI Length:

1 octet indicating the length expressed in bits as defined in

[RFC4760]

. When AFI

= 1, the value

MUST

 be 96; when AFI = 2, the value

MUST

 be 192.

Distinguisher:

4-octet value uniquely identifying the SR Policy in the context of <Color,
Endpoint> tuple. The distinguisher has no semantic value. It is used by the SR Policy
originator to form unique NLRIs the following situations:

•

to differentiate multiple CPs of the same SR Policy

•

to differentiate CPs meant for different headends but having the same Color and Endpoint

The distinguisher is the discriminator of the SR Policy CP as specified in
[RFC9256]
.

Section 2.5 of

Color:

4 octets that carry an unsigned non-zero integer value indicating the Color of the SR
. The Color is used to match the Color of the

Section 2.1 of [RFC9256]
Policy as specified in
destination prefixes to steer traffic into the SR Policy as specified in

Section 8 of [RFC9256]

.

Previdi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9830

Segment Routing Policies in BGP

September 2025

Endpoint: a value that identifies the Endpoint of an SR Policy. The Endpoint may represent a
single node or a set of nodes (e.g., an anycast address). The Endpoint is an IPv4 (4-octet)
address or an IPv6 (16-octet) address according to the AFI of the NLRI. The address can be
either unicast or an unspecified address (0.0.0.0 for IPv4, :: for IPv6), known as a null
Endpoint as specified in

Section 2.1 of [RFC9256]

.

The Color and Endpoint are used to automate the steering of BGP service routes on an SR Policy
as described in

Section 8 of [RFC9256]
.

The NLRI containing an SR Policy CP is carried in a BGP UPDATE message
multiprotocol extensions
The fault management and error handling in the encoding of the NLRI are specified in Section 5.

 with an AFI of 1 or 2 (IPv4 or IPv6) and with a SAFI of 73.

 using BGP

[RFC4760]

[RFC4271]

A BGP UPDATE message that carries the MP_REACH_NLRI or MP_UNREACH_NLRI attribute with
the SR Policy SAFI
 also carry the BGP mandatory attributes. In addition, the BGP UPDATE
message

 also contain any of the BGP optional attributes.

MUST

MAY

The next-hop network address field in SR Policy SAFI (73) updates may be either a 4-octet IPv4
address or a 16-octet IPv6 address, independent of the SR Policy AFI. The Length field of the next-
hop address specifies the next-hop address family. If the next-hop length is 4, then the next-hop
is an IPv4 address. If the next-hop length is 16, then it is a global IPv6 address. If the next-hop
length is 32, then it has a global IPv6 address followed by a link-local IPv6 address. The setting of
the next-hop field and its attendant processing is governed by standard BGP procedures as
described in

Section 3 of [RFC2545]
.

Section 3 of [RFC4760]

 and

It is important to note that at any BGP speaker receiving BGP updates with SR Policy NLRIs, the
SRPM processes only the best path as per the BGP best-path selection algorithm. In other words,
this document leverages the existing BGP propagation and best-path selection rules. Details of
the procedures are described in Section 4.

RECOMMENDED

It has to be noted that if several CPs of the same SR Policy (Endpoint, Color) are signaled via BGP
to a headend, then it is
installed into the BGP table two advertisements whose respective NLRIs have the same Color
and Endpoint, but different distinguishers, both advertisements are passed to the SRPM as
different CPs along with their respective originator information (i.e., Autonomous System
Number (ASN) and BGP Router-ID) as described in
the ASN of the origin and the BGP Router-ID is determined in the following order:

 that each NLRI use a different distinguisher. If BGP has

Section 2.4 of [RFC9256]

. The ASN would be

•

From the Route Origin Community

[RFC4360]

 if present and carrying an IP Address, or

•

As the BGP ORIGINATOR_ID

[RFC4456]

 if present, or

•

As the BGP Router-ID of the peer from which the update was received as a last resort.

Section 2.9 of [RFC9256]
based on the information provided to it by BGP.

 specifies the selection of the active CP of the SR Policy by the SRPM

Previdi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9830

Segment Routing Policies in BGP

September 2025

2.2.  SR Policy and Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute

 using a Tunnel Type called the "SR Policy" type with code point 15. The use of the SR

The content of the SR Policy CP is encoded in the Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute defined in
[RFC9012]
Policy Tunnel Type is applicable only for the AFI/SAFI pairs of (1/73, 2/73). This document
specifies the use of the Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute with the SR Policy Tunnel Type and the
use of any other Tunnel Type with the SR Policy SAFI
MUST
[RFC7606]
.
handled by the "treat-as-withdraw" strategy

 be considered malformed and

The SR Policy Encoding structure is as follows:

SR Policy SAFI NLRI: <Distinguisher, Color, Endpoint>
Attributes:
   Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute (23)
      Tunnel Type: SR Policy (15)
          Binding SID
          Preference
          Priority
          SR Policy Name
          SR Policy Candidate Path Name
          Explicit NULL Label Policy (ENLP)
          Segment List
              Weight
              Segment
              Segment
              ...
          ...

Figure 2: SR Policy Encoding

Where:

•

The SR Policy SAFI NLRI is defined in Section 2.1.

•

The Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute is defined in

[RFC9012]
.

•

The Tunnel Type is set to 15.

•

Preference, Binding SID, Priority, SR Policy Name, SR Policy Candidate Path Name, ENLP,
Segment-List, Weight, and Segment sub-TLVs are defined in Section 2.4.

•

Additional sub-TLVs may be defined in the future.

A Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute
updates
MUST
[RFC7606]
.

 be considered malformed and handled by the "treat-as-withdraw" strategy

MUST NOT

 contain more than one TLV of type "SR Policy"; such

BGP does not need to perform the validation of the tunnel (i.e., SR Policy) itself as indicated in
Section 6 of [RFC9012]
. The validation of the SR Policy information that is advertised using the
sub-TLVs specified in Section 2.4 is performed by the SRPM.

Previdi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9830

Segment Routing Policies in BGP

September 2025

2.3.  Applicability of Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute Sub-TLVs

[RFC9012]

The Tunnel Egress Endpoint and Color sub-TLVs of the Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute, as
defined in
relevant within the context of the SR Policy SAFI NLRI. If these sub-TLVs are present, a BGP
speaker
 remove them from the Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute
during propagation.

, are not utilized for SR Policy encodings. Consequently, their values are not

 ignore them and

MUST

MAY

Similarly, any other sub-TLVs, including those specified in
defined applicability to the SR Policy SAFI
removed from the Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute during propagation.

[RFC9012]

MUST

 be ignored by the BGP speaker and

MAY

 be

, that do not have explicitly

2.4.  SR Policy Sub-TLVs

This section specifies the sub-TLVs defined for encoding the information about the SR Policy
Candidate Path.

Preference, Binding SID, SRv6 Binding SID, Segment-List, Priority, SR Policy Name, SR Policy
Candidate Path Name, and Explicit NULL Label Policy are all optional sub-TLVs introduced for
the BGP Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute

 being defined in this section.

[RFC9012]

Weight and Segment are sub-TLVs of the Segment-List sub-TLV mentioned above.

An early draft version of this document included only the Binding SID sub-TLV that could be used
for both SR-MPLS and SRv6 BSIDs. The SRv6 Binding SID TLV was introduced in later versions to
support the advertisement of additional SRv6 capabilities without affecting backward
compatibility for early implementations.

The fault management and error handling in the encoding of the sub-TLVs defined in this
section are specified in Section 5. For the TLVs/sub-TLVs that are specified as single instance,
 be ignored and
only the first instance of that TLV/sub-TLV is used: the other instances
NOT

 considered to be malformed.

MUST

MUST

None of the sub-TLVs defined in the following subsections have any effect on the BGP best-path
selection or propagation procedures. These sub-TLVs are not used by the BGP path selection
process and are instead passed on to SRPM as SR Policy Candidate Path information for further
processing as described in

Section 2 of [RFC9256]
.

The use of SR Policy sub-TLVs is applicable only for the AFI/SAFI pairs of (1/73, 2/73). Future
documents may extend their applicability to other AFI/SAFI.

2.4.1.  Preference Sub-TLV

The Preference sub-TLV is used to carry the Preference of an SR Policy CP. The contents of this
sub-TLV are used by the SRPM as described in

Section 2.7 of [RFC9256]
.

The Preference sub-TLV is
encoding.

; it
OPTIONAL MUST NOT

 appear more than once in the SR Policy

Previdi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9830

Segment Routing Policies in BGP

September 2025

The Preference sub-TLV has the following format:

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|     Type      |   Length      |     Flags     |   RESERVED    |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                      Preference (4 octets)                    |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 3: Preference Sub-TLV

Where:

Type:

12

Length:

Specifies the length of the value field (i.e., not including Type and Length fields) in

terms of octets. The value

MUST

 be 6.

Flags:

1 octet of flags. No flags are defined in this document. The Flags field

MUST

 be set to zero

on transmission and

MUST

 be ignored on receipt.

RESERVED:

1 octet of reserved bits. This field

MUST

 be set to zero on transmission and

MUST

 be

ignored on receipt.

Preference:

a 4-octet value indicating the Preference of the SR Policy CP as described in

Section

2.7 of [RFC9256]

.

2.4.2.  Binding SID Sub-TLV

The Binding SID sub-TLV is used to signal the BSID-related information of the SR Policy CP. The
contents of this sub-TLV are used by the SRPM as described in

Section 6 of [RFC9256]
.

The Binding SID sub-TLV is
encoding.

; it
OPTIONAL MUST NOT

 appear more than once in the SR Policy

[RFC8986]

 that the SRv6 Binding SID sub-TLV, as defined in Section 2.4.3, be used when

When the Binding SID sub-TLV is used to signal an SRv6 SID, the selection of the corresponding
SRv6 Endpoint Behavior
 to be instantiated is determined by the headend node. It is
RECOMMENDED
signaling an SRv6 BSID for an SR Policy CP. The support for the use of this Binding SID sub-TLV
for the signaling of an SRv6 BSID is retained primarily for backward compatibility with
implementations that followed early draft versions of this document that had not defined the
SRv6 Binding SID sub-TLV.

The Binding SID sub-TLV has the following format:

Previdi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9830

Segment Routing Policies in BGP

September 2025

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|     Type      |   Length      |     Flags     |   RESERVED    |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|              Binding SID (variable, optional)                 |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 4: Binding SID Sub-TLV

Where:

Type:

13

Length:

Specifies the length of the value field (i.e., not including Type and Length fields) in

terms of octets. The value
is present, or 2 when no BSID is present.

MUST

 be 18 when a SRv6 BSID is present, 6 when an SR-MPLS BSID

Flags:

1 octet of flags. The following flags are defined in the registry "SR Policy Binding SID

Flags" as described in Section 6.6:

 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|S|I|           |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 5: SR Policy Binding SID Flags

Where:

•

The S-Flag encodes the "Specified-BSID-Only" behavior. It is used by SRPM as described in
Section 6.2.3 of [RFC9256]

.

•

The I-Flag encodes the "Drop-Upon-Invalid" behavior. It is used by SRPM as described in
Section 8.2 of [RFC9256]
 to define a specific SR Policy forwarding behavior. The flag
indicates that the SR Policy is to perform the "Drop-Upon-Invalid" behavior when no
valid CP is available for this SR Policy. In this situation, the CP with the highest preference
amongst those with the "Drop-Upon-Invalid" behavior is made active to drop traffic
steered over the SR Policy.

•

The unassigned bits in the Flags field
ignored upon receipt.

MUST

 be set to zero upon transmission and

MUST

 be

RESERVED:

1 octet of reserved bits.

MUST

 be set to zero on transmission and

MUST

 be ignored

on receipt.

Previdi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9830

Segment Routing Policies in BGP

September 2025

Binding SID:

If the length is 2, then no BSID is present. If the length is 6, then the BSID is

encoded in 4 octets using the format below. Traffic Class (TC), S, and TTL (Total of 12 bits) are
RESERVED and

 be set to zero and

 be ignored.

MUST

MUST

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|          Label                        | TC  |S|       TTL     |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 6: Binding SID Label Encoding

The Label field is validated by the SRPM but
values (0-15). If the length is 18, then the BSID contains a 16-octet SRv6 SID.

MUST NOT

 contain the reserved MPLS label

2.4.3.  SRv6 Binding SID Sub-TLV

The SRv6 Binding SID sub-TLV is used to signal the SRv6-BSID-related information of an SR
Policy CP. It enables the specification of the SRv6 Endpoint Behavior
on the headend node. The contents of this sub-TLV are used by the SRPM as described in
6 of [RFC9256]
.

 to be instantiated
Section

[RFC8986]

The SRv6 Binding SID sub-TLV is
signaled in the same SR Policy encoding to indicate one or more SRv6 SIDs, each with potentially
different SRv6 Endpoint Behaviors to be instantiated.

. More than one SRv6 Binding SID sub-TLV

OPTIONAL

MAY

 be

The SRv6 Binding SID sub-TLV has the following format:

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|     Type      |   Length      |     Flags     |   RESERVED    |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                 SRv6 Binding SID (16 octets)                  |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
//     SRv6 Endpoint Behavior and SID Structure (optional)     //
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 7: SRv6 Binding SID Sub-TLV

Where:

Type:

20

Length:

Specifies the length of the value field (i.e., not including Type and Length fields) in

terms of octets. The value
present; else, it

MUST

 be 18.

MUST

 be 26 when the SRv6 Endpoint Behavior and SID Structure is

Previdi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9830

Segment Routing Policies in BGP

September 2025

Flags:

1 octet of flags. The following flags are defined in the registry "SR Policy SRv6 Binding

SID Flags" as described in Section 6.7:

 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|S|I|B|         |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 8: SR Policy SRv6 Binding SID Flags

Where:

•

The S-Flag encodes the "Specified-BSID-Only" behavior. It is used by SRPM as described in
Section 6.2.3 of [RFC9256]

.

•

The I-Flag encodes the "Drop-Upon-Invalid" behavior. It is used by SRPM as described in
Section 8.2 of [RFC9256]

.

•

The B-Flag, when set, indicates the presence of the "SRv6 Endpoint Behavior & SID
Structure" encoding specified in Section 2.4.4.2.4.

•

The unassigned bits in the Flags field
ignored upon receipt.

MUST

 be set to zero upon transmission and

MUST

 be

RESERVED:

1 octet of reserved bits. This field

MUST

 be set to zero on transmission and

MUST

 be

ignored on receipt.

SRv6 Binding SID:

Contains a 16-octet SRv6 SID. The value 0

MAY

 be used when the controller

wants to indicate the desired SRv6 Endpoint Behavior, SID Structure, or flags without
specifying the BSID.

SRv6 Endpoint Behavior and SID Structure:
Endpoint Behavior and SID Structure
included.

Optional, as defined in Section 2.4.4.2.4. The SRv6

MUST NOT

 be included when the SRv6 SID has not been

2.4.4.  Segment List Sub-TLV

The Segment List sub-TLV encodes a single explicit path towards the Endpoint as described in
Section 5.1 of [RFC9256]
segments) as well as an optional Weight sub-TLV.

. The Segment List sub-TLV includes the elements of the paths (i.e.,

The Segment List sub-TLV may exceed 255 bytes in length due to a large number of segments. A
2-octet length is thus required. According to
, the sub-TLV type defines the
size of the Length field. Therefore, for the Segment List sub-TLV, a code point of 128 or higher is
used.

Section 2 of [RFC9012]

The Segment List sub-TLV is
encoding. The ordering of Segment List sub-TLVs does not matter since each sub-TLV encodes a
Segment List.

 appear multiple times in the SR Policy

OPTIONAL

 and

MAY

Previdi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9830

Segment Routing Policies in BGP

September 2025

The Segment List sub-TLV contains zero or more Segment sub-TLVs and
sub-TLV.

MAY

 contain a Weight

The Segment List sub-TLV has the following format:

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|     Type      |             Length            |   RESERVED    |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
//                           sub-TLVs                          //
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 9: Segment List Sub-TLV

Where:

Type:

128

Length:

The total length (not including the Type and Length fields) of the sub-TLVs encoded

within the Segment List sub-TLV in terms of octets.

RESERVED:

1 octet of reserved bits. This field

MUST

 be set to zero on transmission and

MUST

 be

ignored on receipt.

sub-TLVs currently defined:

•

An optional single Weight sub-TLV

•

Zero or more Segment sub-TLVs

Validation of an explicit path encoded by the Segment List sub-TLV is beyond the scope of BGP
and performed by the SRPM as described in

Section 5 of [RFC9256]
.

2.4.4.1.  Weight Sub-TLV

The Weight sub-TLV specifies the weight associated with a given segment list. The contents of
this sub-TLV are used only by the SRPM as described in

Section 2.11 of [RFC9256]
.

The Weight sub-TLV is
sub-TLV.

; it
OPTIONAL MUST NOT

 appear more than once inside the Segment List

The Weight sub-TLV has the following format:

Previdi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9830

Segment Routing Policies in BGP

September 2025

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|     Type      |   Length      |     Flags     |   RESERVED    |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                              Weight                           |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 10: Weight Sub-TLV

Where:

Type:

9

Length:

Specifies the length of the value field (i.e., not including Type and Length fields) in

terms of octets. The value

MUST

 be 6.

Flags:

1 octet of flags. No flags are defined in this document. The Flags field

MUST

 be set to zero

on transmission and

MUST

 be ignored on receipt.

RESERVED:

1 octet of reserved bits. This field

MUST

 be set to zero on transmission and

MUST

 be

ignored on receipt.

Weight:

4 octets carrying an unsigned integer value indicating the weight associated with a

segment list as described in

Section 2.11 of [RFC9256]

. A weight value of zero is invalid.

2.4.4.2.  Segment Sub-TLVs

A Segment sub-TLV describes a single segment in a segment list (i.e., a single element of the
explicit path). One or more Segment sub-TLVs constitute an explicit path of the SR Policy CP. The
contents of these sub-TLVs are used only by the SRPM as described in

Section 4 of [RFC9256]
.

The Segment sub-TLVs are
TLV.

OPTIONAL

 and

MAY

 appear multiple times in the Segment List sub-

Section 4 of [RFC9256]

 defines several Segment Types:

Type A:

SR-MPLS Label

Type B:

SRv6 SID

Type C:

IPv4 Prefix with optional SR Algorithm

Type D:

IPv6 Global Prefix with optional SR Algorithm for SR-MPLS

Type E:

IPv4 Prefix with Local Interface ID

Type F:

IPv4 Addresses for link endpoints as Local, Remote pair

Type G:

IPv6 Prefix and Interface ID for link endpoints as Local, Remote pair for SR-MPLS

Previdi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9830

Segment Routing Policies in BGP

September 2025

Type H:

IPv6 Addresses for link endpoints as Local, Remote pair for SR-MPLS

Type I:

IPv6 Global Prefix with optional SR Algorithm for SRv6

Type J:

IPv6 Prefix and Interface ID for link endpoints as Local, Remote pair for SRv6

Type K:

IPv6 Addresses for link endpoints as Local, Remote pair for SRv6

The following subsections specify the sub-TLVs used for Segment Types A and B. The other
. As specified in
segment types are specified in
MPLS and SRv6 segments make the segment-list invalid.

Section 5.1 of [RFC9256]

[RFC9831]

, a mix of SR-

2.4.4.2.1.  Segment Type A

The Type A Segment sub-TLV encodes a single SR-MPLS SID. The format is as follows and is used
[RFC3032]
to encode MPLS Label fields as specified in

[RFC5462]
:

 and

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|     Type      |   Length      |     Flags     |   RESERVED    |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|          Label                        | TC  |S|       TTL     |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 11: Type A Segment Sub-TLV

Where:

Type:

1

Length:

Specifies the length of the value field (i.e., not including Type and Length fields) in

terms of octets. The value

MUST

 be 6.

Flags:

1 octet of flags as defined in Section 2.4.4.2.3.

RESERVED:

1 octet of reserved bits. This field

MUST

 be set to zero on transmission and

MUST

 be

ignored on receipt.

Label:

20 bits of label value.

TC:

3 bits of traffic class.

S:

1 bit of bottom-of-stack.

TTL:

1 octet of TTL.

The following applies to the Type-1 Segment sub-TLV:

•

The S bit

MUST

 be zero upon transmission and

MUST

 be ignored upon reception.

•

If the originator wants the receiver to choose the TC value, it sets the TC field to zero.

Previdi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9830

Segment Routing Policies in BGP

September 2025

•

If the originator wants the receiver to choose the TTL value, it sets the TTL field to 255.

•

If the originator wants to recommend a value for these fields, it puts those values in the TC
and/or TTL fields.

•

MAY

 override the originator's values for these fields. This would be determined
The receiver
by local policy at the receiver. One possible policy would be to override the fields only if the
fields have the default values specified above.

2.4.4.2.2.  Segment Type B

The Type B Segment sub-TLV encodes a single SRv6 SID. The format is as follows:

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|     Type      |   Length      |     Flags     |   RESERVED    |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
//                       SRv6 SID (16 octets)                  //
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
//           SRv6 Endpoint Behavior and SID Structure          //
//                    (optional, 8 octets)                     //
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 12: Type B Segment Sub-TLV

Where:

Type:

13

Length:

Specifies the length of the value field (i.e., not including Type and Length fields) in

terms of octets. The value
present; else, it

MUST

 be 18.

MUST

 be 26 when the SRv6 Endpoint Behavior and SID Structure is

Flags:

1 octet of flags as defined in Section 2.4.4.2.3.

RESERVED:

1 octet of reserved bits. This field

MUST

 be set to zero on transmission and

MUST

 be

ignored on receipt.

SRv6 SID:

16 octets of IPv6 address.

SRv6 Endpoint Behavior and SID Structure:
Endpoint Behavior and SID Structure
included.

Optional, as defined in Section 2.4.4.2.4. The SRv6

MUST NOT

 be included when the SRv6 SID has not been

The sub-TLV code point 2 defined for the advertisement of Segment Type B in the earlier draft
versions of this document has been deprecated to avoid backward compatibility issues.

Previdi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9830

Segment Routing Policies in BGP

September 2025

2.4.4.2.3.  SR Policy Segment Flags

The Segment Type sub-TLVs described above may contain the following SR Policy Segment Flags
in their Flags field. Also refer to Section 6.8:

 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|V|   |B|       |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 13: SR Policy Segment Flags

Where:

•

When the V-Flag is set, it is used by SRPM for "SID verification" as described in
[RFC9256]

.

Section 5.1 of

•

When the B-Flag is set, it indicates the presence of the "SRv6 Endpoint Behavior & SID
Structure" encoding specified in Section 2.4.4.2.4.

•

The unassigned bits in the Flags field
ignored upon receipt.

MUST

 be set to zero upon transmission and

MUST

 be

The following applies to the Segment Flags:

•

V-Flag applies to all Segment Types.

•

B-Flag applies to Segment Type B. If B-Flag appears with Segment Type A, it

MUST

 be ignored.

2.4.4.2.4.  SRv6 Endpoint Behavior and SID Structure

The Segment Type sub-TLVs described above
Structure

MAY
 encoding as described below:

[RFC8986]

 contain the SRv6 Endpoint Behavior and SID

+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|       Endpoint Behavior       |            Reserved           |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|    LB Length  |  LN Length    | Fun. Length   |  Arg. Length  |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 14: SRv6 Endpoint Behavior and SID Structure

Where:

Endpoint Behavior:
as defined in
choice of SRv6 Endpoint Behavior is left to the headend.

Section 10.2 of [RFC8986]

2 octets. It carries the SRv6 Endpoint Behavior code point for this SRv6 SID

. When set with the value 0xFFFF (i.e., Opaque), the

Previdi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9830

Segment Routing Policies in BGP

September 2025

Reserved:

2 octets of reserved bits. This field

MUST

 be set to zero on transmission and

MUST

 be

ignored on receipt.

Locator Block Length:

1 octet. SRv6 SID Locator Block length in bits.

Locator Node Length:

1 octet. SRv6 SID Locator Node length in bits.

Function Length:

1 octet. SRv6 SID Function length in bits.

Argument Length:

1 octet. SRv6 SID Arguments length in bits.

The total of the locator block, locator node, function, and argument lengths
equal to 128.

MUST

 be less than or

2.4.5.  Explicit NULL Label Policy Sub-TLV

To steer an unlabeled IP packet into an SR Policy for the MPLS data plane, it is necessary to push
a label stack of one or more labels on that packet.

The Explicit NULL Label Policy (ENLP) sub-TLV is used to indicate whether an Explicit NULL
Label

 must be pushed on an unlabeled IP packet before any other labels.

[RFC3032]

If an ENLP sub-TLV is not present, the decision of whether to push an Explicit NULL label on a
given packet is a matter of local configuration.

The ENLP sub-TLV is

; it
OPTIONAL MUST NOT

 appear more than once in the SR Policy encoding.

The contents of this sub-TLV are used by the SRPM as described in

Section 4.1 of [RFC9256]
.

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|     Type      |   Length      |     Flags     |   RESERVED    |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|     ENLP      |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 15: ENLP Sub-TLV

Where:

Type:

14

Length:

Specifies the length of the value field (i.e., not including Type and Length fields) in

terms of octets. The value

MUST

 be 3.

Flags:

1 octet of flags. No flags are defined in this document. The Flags field

MUST

 be set to zero

on transmission and

MUST

 be ignored on receipt.

Previdi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9830

Segment Routing Policies in BGP

September 2025

RESERVED:

1 octet of reserved bits. This field

MUST

 be set to zero on transmission and

MUST

 be

ignored on receipt.

ENLP (Explicit NULL Label Policy):

Indicates whether Explicit NULL labels are to be pushed on
unlabeled IP packets that are being steered into a given SR Policy. The following values have
been currently defined for this field:

1:

2:

3:

4:

Push an IPv4 Explicit NULL label on an unlabeled IPv4 packet but do not push an IPv6
Explicit NULL label on an unlabeled IPv6 packet.

Push an IPv6 Explicit NULL label on an unlabeled IPv6 packet but do not push an IPv4
Explicit NULL label on an unlabeled IPv4 packet.

Push an IPv4 Explicit NULL label on an unlabeled IPv4 packet and push an IPv6
Explicit NULL label on an unlabeled IPv6 packet.

Do not push an Explicit NULL label.

This field can have one of the values as specified in Section 6.10. The ENLP unassigned values
may be used for future extensions. Implementations adhering to this document
 ignore
the ENLP sub-TLV with unrecognized values (viz. other than 1 through 4). The behavior
signaled in this sub-TLV
based on their deployment requirements.
the headend for the handling of the Explicit NULL label.

 be overridden by local configuration by the network operator

 describes the behavior on

Section 4.1 of [RFC9256]

MUST

MAY

2.4.6.  SR Policy Priority Sub-TLV

MAY

An operator
 set the SR Policy Priority sub-TLV to indicate the order in which the SR policies
are recomputed upon topological change. The contents of this sub-TLV are used by the SRPM as
described in

Section 2.12 of [RFC9256]
.

The Priority sub-TLV is

; it
OPTIONAL MUST NOT

 appear more than once in the SR Policy encoding.

The Priority sub-TLV has the following format:

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|     Type      |   Length      |  Priority     |   RESERVED    |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 16: Priority Sub-TLV

Where:

Type:

15

Length:

Specifies the length of the value field (i.e., not including Type and Length fields) in

terms of octets. The value

MUST

 be 2.

Previdi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9830

Segment Routing Policies in BGP

September 2025

Priority:

A 1-octet value indicating the priority as specified in

Section 2.12 of [RFC9256]

.

RESERVED:

1 octet of reserved bits. This field

MUST

 be set to zero on transmission and

MUST

 be

ignored on receipt.

2.4.7.  SR Policy Candidate Path Name Sub-TLV

An operator
MAY
the SR Policy CP.

 set the SR Policy Candidate Path Name sub-TLV to attach a symbolic name to

Usage of the SR Policy Candidate Path Name sub-TLV is described in

Section 2.6 of [RFC9256]
.

The SR Policy Candidate Path Name sub-TLV may exceed 255 bytes in length due to a long name.
A 2-octet length is thus required. According to
the size of the Length field. Therefore, for the SR Policy Candidate Path Name sub-TLV, a code
point of 128 or higher is used.

, the sub-TLV type defines

Section 2 of [RFC9012]

RECOMMENDED

It is
Implementations

 that the size of the symbolic name for the CP be limited to 255 bytes.

MAY

 choose to truncate long names to 255 bytes when signaling via BGP.

The SR Policy Candidate Path Name sub-TLV is
in the SR Policy encoding.

; it
OPTIONAL MUST NOT

 appear more than once

The SR Policy Candidate Path Name sub-TLV has the following format:

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|     Type      |   Length                      |   RESERVED    |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
//            SR Policy Candidate Path Name                     //
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 17: SR Policy Candidate Path Name Sub-TLV

Where:

Type:

129

Length:

Specifies the length of the value field (i.e., not including Type and Length fields) in

terms of octets. The value is variable.

RESERVED:

1 octet of reserved bits. This field

MUST

 be set to zero on transmission and

MUST

 be

ignored on receipt.

SR Policy Candidate Path Name:

Symbolic name for the SR Policy CP without a NULL

terminator with encoding as specified in

Section 2.6 of [RFC9256]

.

Previdi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9830

Segment Routing Policies in BGP

September 2025

2.4.8.  SR Policy Name Sub-TLV

An operator
Policy for which the CP is being advertised via the SR Policy NLRI.

 set the SR Policy Name sub-TLV to associate a symbolic name with the SR

MAY

Usage of the SR Policy Name sub-TLV is described in

Section 2.1 of [RFC9256]
.

The SR Policy Name sub-TLV may exceed 255 bytes in length due to a long SR Policy name. A 2-
, the sub-TLV type defines the
octet length is thus required. According to
size of the Length field. Therefore, for the SR Policy Name sub-TLV, a code point of 128 or higher
is used.

Section 2 of [RFC9012]

RECOMMENDED

It is
Implementations

 that the size of the symbolic name for the SR Policy be limited to 255 bytes.

MAY

 choose to truncate long names to 255 bytes when signaling via BGP.

The SR Policy Name sub-TLV is
encoding.

; it
OPTIONAL MUST NOT

 appear more than once in the SR Policy

The SR Policy Name sub-TLV has the following format:

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|     Type      |   Length                      |   RESERVED    |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
//                      SR Policy Name                          //
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 18: SR Policy Name Sub-TLV

Where:

Type:

130

Length:

Specifies the length of the value field (i.e., not including Type and Length fields) in

terms of octets. The value is variable.

RESERVED:

1 octet of reserved bits. This field

MUST

 be set to zero on transmission and

MUST

 be

ignored on receipt.

SR Policy Name:
specified in

Section 2.1 of [RFC9256]

.

Symbolic name for the SR Policy without a NULL terminator with encoding as

Previdi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9830

Segment Routing Policies in BGP

September 2025

3.  Color Extended Community

[RFC9012]

 is used to steer traffic corresponding to BGP routes

The Color Extended Community
into an SR Policy with matching Color value. The Color Extended Community
any BGP UPDATE message whose AFI/SAFI is 1/1 (IPv4 Unicast), 2/1 (IPv6 Unicast), 1/4 (IPv4
Labeled Unicast), 2/4 (IPv6 Labeled Unicast), 1/128 (VPN-IPv4 Labeled Unicast), 2/128 (VPN-IPv6
Labeled Unicast), or 25/70 (Ethernet VPN, usually known as EVPN). Use of the Color Extended
Community in BGP UPDATE messages of other AFI/SAFIs is not covered by
outside the scope of this document as well.

 be carried in

[RFC9012]

MAY

; hence, it is

Two bits from the Flags field of the Color Extended Community are used as follows to support
the requirements of Color-Only steering as specified in

Section 8.8 of [RFC9256]
:

                     1
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|C O|        Unassigned         |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 19: Color Extended Community Flags

The C and O bits together form the Color-Only Type field, which indicates the various matching
criteria between the BGP Next Hop (NH) and the SR Policy Endpoint in addition to the matching
of the Color value. The following types are defined:

Type 0 (bits 00):

Specific Endpoint Match. Request a match for the Endpoint that is the BGP NH.

Type 1 (bits 01):

Specific or Null Endpoint Match. Request a match for either the Endpoint that

is the BGP NH or a null Endpoint (e.g., a default gateway).

Type 2 (bits 10):

Specific, Null, or Any Endpoint Match. Request a match for either the Endpoint

that is the BGP NH or a null or any Endpoint.

Type 3 (bits 11):

Reserved for future use and

SHOULD NOT

 be used. Upon reception, an

implementation

MUST

 treat it like Type 0.

The details of the SR Policy steering mechanisms based on these Color-Only types are specified in
Section 8.8 of [RFC9256]
.

One or more Color Extended Communities
8.4.1, 8.5.1, and 8.8.2 of
Color Extended Communities are associated with a BGP route.

 be associated with a BGP route update. Sections
 specify the steering behaviors over SR Policies when multiple

[RFC9256]

MAY

Previdi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9830

Segment Routing Policies in BGP

September 2025

4.  SR Policy Operations

As mentioned in Section 1, BGP is not the actual consumer of an SR Policy NLRI. BGP is in charge
of the origination and propagation of the SR Policy NLRI, but its installation and use are outside
the scope of BGP. The details of SR Policy installation and use are specified in

[RFC9256]
.

4.1.  Advertisement of SR Policies

Typically, but not limited to, an SR Policy is computed by a controller or a Path Computation
Engine (PCE) and originated by a BGP speaker on its behalf.

Multiple SR Policy NLRIs may be present with the same <Color, Endpoint> tuple but with
different distinguishers when these SR policies are intended for different headends.

The distinguisher of each SR Policy NLRI prevents undesired BGP route selection among these
SR Policy NLRIs and allows their propagation across RRs

[RFC4456]
.

Moreover, one or more route targets
route target identifies one or more intended headends for the advertised SR Policy update.

 be attached to the advertisement, where each

SHOULD

If no route target is attached to the SR Policy NLRI, then it is assumed that the originator sends
the SR Policy update directly (e.g., through a BGP session) to the intended receiver. In such a
[RFC1997] MUST
case, the NO_ADVERTISE community
further details in Section 4.2.3).

 be attached to the SR Policy update (see

4.2.  Reception of an SR Policy NLRI

On reception of an SR Policy NLRI, a BGP speaker first determines if it is valid as described in
Section 4.2.1; then, the BGP speaker performs the decision process for selection of the best route
Section 9.1 of [RFC4271]
(
does not download the selected best routes of the SR Policy SAFI into the forwarding; instead, it
considers them "usable" for passing on to the SRPM for further processing as described in Section
4.2.2. The selected best route is "propagated" (
4.2.3, irrespective of its "usability" by the local router.

). The key difference from the base BGP decision process is that BGP

Section 9.1.3 of [RFC4271]

) as described in Section

4.2.1.  Validation of an SR Policy NLRI

When a BGP speaker receives an SR Policy NLRI from a neighbor, it
validation based on the following rules in addition to the validation described in Section 5:

 first perform

MUST

•

The SR Policy NLRI
the length of the NLRI
the Endpoint).

MUST

 include a distinguisher, Color, and Endpoint field that implies that
 be either 12 or 24 octets (depending on the address family of

MUST

•

MUST

The SR Policy update
Target extended community in IPv4-address format, or both. If a router supporting this
specification receives an SR Policy update with no Route Target extended communities and
no NO_ADVERTISE community, the update
MUST

 have either the NO_ADVERTISE community, at least one Route

 be considered to be malformed.

Previdi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9830

Segment Routing Policies in BGP

September 2025

•

The Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute
MUST

 have a Tunnel Type TLV set to SR Policy (code point is 15).

MUST

 be attached to the BGP UPDATE message and

A router that receives an SR Policy update that is not valid according to these criteria
the update as malformed, and the SR Policy CP

 be passed to the SRPM.

MUST NOT

MUST

 treat

4.2.2.  Eligibility for Local Use of an SR Policy NLRI

An SR Policy NLRI update that does not have a Route Target extended community but does have
the NO_ADVERTISE community is considered usable.

If one or more route targets are present, then at least one route target
Identifier of the receiver for the update to be considered usable. The BGP Identifier is defined in
[RFC4271]
 as a 4-octet, unsigned, non-zero
integer. Therefore, the Route Target extended community
 be of the same format.

 as a 4-octet IPv4 address and is updated by

[RFC6286]
MUST

 match the BGP

MUST

If one or more route targets are present, and none matches the local BGP Identifier, then, while
the SR Policy NLRI is valid, the SR Policy NLRI is not usable on the receiver node.

When the SR Policy tunnel type includes any sub-TLV that is unrecognized or unsupported, the
update
ignoring unsupported sub-TLVs.

 be considered usable. An implementation

 provide an option for

SHOULD NOT

MAY

Once BGP on the receiving node has determined that the SR Policy NLRI is usable, it passes the
SR Policy CP to the SRPM. Note that, along with the CP details, BGP also passes the originator
information for breaking ties in the CP selection process as described in

Section 2.4 of [RFC9256]
.

When an update for an SR Policy NLRI results in its becoming unusable, BGP
corresponding SR Policy CP from the SRPM.

MUST

 delete its

The SRPM applies the rules defined in
CP is valid and to select the active CP for a given SR Policy.

Section 2 of [RFC9256]

 to determine whether the SR Policy

4.2.3.  Propagation of an SR Policy

SR Policy NLRIs that have the NO_ADVERTISE community attached to them
propagated.

MUST NOT

 be

By default, a BGP node receiving an SR Policy NLRI
(EBGP) neighbor. An implementation
 provide an explicit configuration to override this and
enable the propagation of valid SR Policy NLRIs to specific EBGP neighbors where the SR domain
comprises multiple ASes within a single service provider domain (see Section 7 for details).

 propagate it to any External BGP

MUST NOT

MAY

A BGP node advertises a received SR Policy NLRI to its Internal BGP (IBGP) neighbors according
to normal IBGP propagation rules.

By default, a BGP node receiving an SR Policy NLRI
extended community before propagation. An implementation
configuration to filter and/or remove the Route Target extended community before propagation.

 remove the Route Target
 provide support for

SHOULD NOT

MAY

Previdi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9830

Segment Routing Policies in BGP

September 2025

A BGP node
Attribute during propagation.

MUST NOT

 alter the SR Policy information carried in the Tunnel Encapsulation

5.  Error Handling and Fault Management

This section describes the error-handling actions, as described in
performed for the handling of the BGP UPDATE messages for the BGP SR Policy SAFI.

[RFC7606]

, that are to be

MUST

 perform the following syntactic validation of the SR Policy NLRI to

A BGP speaker
determine if it is malformed. This includes the validation of the length of each NLRI and the total
length of the MP_REACH_NLRI and MP_UNREACH_NLRI attributes. It also includes the validation
of the consistency of the NLRI length with the AFI and the endpoint address as specified in
Section 2.1.

When the error determined allows for the router to skip the malformed NLRI(s) and continue
the processing of the rest of the BGP UPDATE message, then it
NLRIs as 'treat-as-withdraw'. In other cases, where the error in the NLRI encoding results in the
inability to process the BGP UPDATE message (e.g., length-related encoding errors), then the
router
besides SR Policy are being advertised over the same session. Alternately, the router
perform "session reset" when the session is only being used for SR Policy or when a "AFI/SAFI
disable" action is not possible.

 handle such malformed NLRIs as "AFI/SAFI disable" when other AFI/SAFIs
MUST

 handle such malformed

SHOULD

MUST

MUST

 be performed to determine if they are malformed or invalid.

The validation of the TLVs/sub-TLVs introduced in this document and defined in their respective
subsections of Section 2.4
The validation of the Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute itself and the other TLVs/sub-TLVs specified
in
detected, either at the attribute or its TLV/sub-TLV level, the "treat-as-withdraw" strategy
MUST
be applied. This is because an SR Policy update without a valid Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute
(comprised of all valid TLVs/sub-TLVs) is not usable.

 be done as described in that document. In case of any error

Section 13 of [RFC9012] MUST

An SR Policy update that is determined not to be valid (and, therefore, malformed) based on the
rules described in Section 4.2.1

 be handled by the "treat-as-withdraw" strategy.

MUST

The validation of the individual fields of the TLVs/sub-TLVs defined in Section 2.4 are beyond the
scope of BGP as they are handled by the SRPM as described in the individual TLV/sub-TLV
subsections. A BGP implementation
MUST NOT
consider the SR Policy update to be invalid or not usable based on such validation.

 perform semantic verification of such fields nor

An implementation
analysis.

SHOULD

 log any errors found during the above validation for further

Previdi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9830

Segment Routing Policies in BGP

September 2025

6.  IANA Considerations

This document uses code point allocations from the following existing registries in the
"Subsequent Address Family Identifiers (SAFI) Parameters" registry group:

•

The "SAFI Values" registry

This document uses code point allocations from the following existing registries in the "Border
Gateway Protocol (BGP) Tunnel Encapsulation" registry group:

•

The "BGP Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute Tunnel Types" registry

•

The "BGP Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute Sub-TLVs" registry

•

The "Color Extended Community Flags" registry

This document creates the following new registries in the "Border Gateway Protocol (BGP)
Tunnel Encapsulation" registry group:

•

The "SR Policy Segment List Sub-TLVs" registry

•

The "SR Policy Binding SID Flags" registry

•

The "SR Policy SRv6 Binding SID Flags" registry

•

The "SR Policy Segment Flags" registry

•

The "Color Extended Community Color-Only Types" registry

This document creates the following new registry in the "Segment Routing" registry group:

•

The "SR Policy ENLP Values" registry

6.1.  Subsequent Address Family Identifiers (SAFI) Parameters

This document registers a SAFI code point in the "SAFI Values" registry of the "Subsequent
Address Family Identifiers (SAFI) Parameters" registry group as follows:

Value

Description

Reference

73

SR Policy SAFI

RFC 9830

Table 1: BGP SAFI Code Point

6.2.  BGP Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute Tunnel Types

This document registers a Tunnel Type code point in the "BGP Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute
Tunnel Types" registry under the "Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) Tunnel Encapsulation"
registry group.

Previdi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9830

Segment Routing Policies in BGP

September 2025

Value

Description

Reference

15

SR Policy

RFC 9830

Table 2: Tunnel Type Code Point

6.3.  BGP Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute Sub-TLVs

This document defines sub-TLVs in the "BGP Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute Sub-TLVs" registry
under the "Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) Tunnel Encapsulation" registry group.

Value Description

Reference

Change Controller

12

13

14

15

20

128

129

130

Preference sub-TLV

RFC 9830

IETF

Binding SID sub-TLV

RFC 9830

IETF

ENLP sub-TLV

Priority sub-TLV

RFC 9830

IETF

RFC 9830

IETF

SRv6 Binding SID sub-TLV

RFC 9830

IETF

Segment List sub-TLV

RFC 9830

IETF

SR Policy Candidate Path Name sub-TLV

RFC 9830

IETF

SR Policy Name sub-TLV

RFC 9830

IETF

Table 3: BGP Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute Sub-TLV Code Points

6.4.  Color Extended Community Flags

This document defines the use of 2 bits in the "Color Extended Community Flags" registry under
the "Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) Tunnel Encapsulation" registry group.

Bit Position Description

Reference

0-1

Color-only Types Field

RFC 9830

Table 4: Color Extended Community Flag Bits

6.5.  SR Policy Segment List Sub-TLVs

This document creates a new registry called "SR Policy Segment List Sub-TLVs" under the
"Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) Tunnel Encapsulation" registry group. The registration policy of
this registry is "IETF Review" (see

[RFC8126]

).

The following initial sub-TLV code points are assigned by this document:

Previdi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 9830

Segment Routing Policies in BGP

September 2025

Value

Description

Reference

0

1

2

Reserved

RFC 9830

Type A Segment sub-TLV

RFC 9830

Deprecated

RFC 9830

3-8

Unassigned

9

10

11

12

13

Weight sub-TLV

RFC 9830

Deprecated

Deprecated

Deprecated

RFC 9830

RFC 9830

RFC 9830

Type B Segment sub-TLV

RFC 9830

14-255

Unassigned

Table 5: SR Policy Segment List Sub-TLV Code Points

6.6.  SR Policy Binding SID Flags

This document creates a new registry called "SR Policy Binding SID Flags" under the "Border
Gateway Protocol (BGP) Tunnel Encapsulation" registry group. The registration policy of this
registry is "Standards Action" (see

[RFC8126]

).

The following flags are defined:

Bit Description

Reference

0

1

Specified-BSID-Only Flag (S-Flag)

RFC 9830

Drop-Upon-Invalid Flag (I-Flag)

RFC 9830

2-7

Unassigned

Table 6: SR Policy Binding SID Flags

6.7.  SR Policy SRv6 Binding SID Flags

This document creates a new registry called "SR Policy SRv6 Binding SID Flags" under the
"Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) Tunnel Encapsulation" registry group. The registration policy of
this registry is "Standards Action" (see

[RFC8126]

).

The following flags are defined:

Previdi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 9830

Segment Routing Policies in BGP

September 2025

Bit Description

Specified-BSID-Only Flag (S-Flag)

Drop-Upon-Invalid Flag (I-Flag)

0

1

2

Reference

RFC 9830

RFC 9830

SRv6 Endpoint Behavior & SID Structure Flag (B-Flag)

RFC 9830

3-7

Unassigned

Table 7: SR Policy SRv6 Binding SID Flags

6.8.  SR Policy Segment Flags

This document creates a new registry called "SR Policy Segment Flags" under the "Border
Gateway Protocol (BGP) Tunnel Encapsulation" registry group. The registration policy of this
registry is "IETF Review" (see

[RFC8126]

).

The following flags are defined:

Bit Description

0

Segment Verification Flag (V-Flag)

1-2

Unassigned

Reference

RFC 9830

3

SRv6 Endpoint Behavior & SID Structure Flag (B-Flag)

RFC 9830

4-7

Unassigned

Table 8: SR Policy Segment Flags

6.9.  Color Extended Community Color-Only Types

This document creates a new registry called "Color Extended Community Color-Only Types"
under the "Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) Tunnel Encapsulation" registry group for assignment
of code points (values 0 through 3) in the Color-Only Type field of the Color Extended
Community Flags field. The registration policy of this registry is "Standards Action" (see
[RFC8126]

).

The following types are defined:

Type Description

Reference

0

1

2

Specific Endpoint Match

RFC 9830

Specific or Null Endpoint Match

RFC 9830

Specific, Null, or Any Endpoint Match

RFC 9830

Previdi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 9830

Segment Routing Policies in BGP

September 2025

Type Description

3

Unassigned

Reference

RFC 9830

Table 9: Color Extended Community Color-Only Types

6.10.  SR Policy ENLP Values

IANA will maintain a new registry under the "Segment Routing" registry group with the
registration policy of "Standards Action" (see
). The new registry is called "SR Policy
ENLP Values" and contains the code points allocated to the ENLP field defined in Section 2.4.5.
The registry contains the following code points:

[RFC8126]

Code
Point

Description

Reference

RFC 9830

RFC 9830

0

1

2

3

4

Reserved

Push an IPv4 Explicit NULL label on an unlabeled IPv4 packet but
do not push an IPv6 Explicit NULL label on an unlabeled IPv6 packet

Push an IPv6 Explicit NULL label on an unlabeled IPv6 packet but
do not push an IPv4 Explicit NULL label on an unlabeled IPv4 packet

RFC 9830

Push an IPv6 Explicit NULL label on an unlabeled IPv6 packet and
push an IPv4 Explicit NULL label on an unlabeled IPv4 packet

Do not push an Explicit NULL label

RFC 9830

RFC 9830

5-255

Unassigned

Table 10: SR Policy ENLP Values

7.  Security Considerations

The security mechanisms of the base BGP security model apply to the extensions described in
this document as well. See the Security Considerations section of
 for a discussion of
[RFC4272]
BGP security. Also, refer to

 for analysis of security issues for BGP.

[RFC4271]

[RFC6952]

 and

[RFC8402]

The BGP SR Policy extensions specified in this document enable traffic engineering and service
programming use cases within an SR domain as described in
trusted SR domain
; its security considerations also apply to BGP sessions when
carrying SR Policy information. The SR Policies distributed by BGP are expected to be used
entirely within this trusted SR domain, which comprises a single AS or multiple ASes / domains
within a single provider network. Therefore, precaution is necessary to ensure that the SR Policy
information advertised via BGP sessions is limited to nodes in a secure manner within this
trusted SR domain. BGP peering sessions for address families other than those that use the SR

. SR operates within a

[RFC9256]

Previdi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 9830

Segment Routing Policies in BGP

September 2025

Policy SAFI may be set up to routers outside the SR domain. The isolation of BGP SR Policy SAFI
peering sessions may be used to ensure that the SR Policy information is not advertised by
accident or in error to an EBGP peering session outside the SR domain.

Additionally, it may be a consideration that the export of SR Policy information, as described in
this document, constitutes a risk to confidentiality of mission-critical or commercially sensitive
information about the network (more specifically endpoint/node addresses, SR SIDs, and the SR
Policies deployed). BGP peerings are not automatic and require configuration; thus, it is the
responsibility of the network operator to ensure that only trusted nodes (that include both
routers and controller applications) within the SR domain are configured to receive such
information.

8.  Manageability Considerations

The specification of BGP models is an ongoing work based on
extensions are expected to cover the SR Policy SAFI. Existing BGP operational procedures also
apply to the SAFI specified in this document. The management, operations, and monitoring of
BGP speakers and the SR Policy SAFI sessions between them are not very different from other
BGP sessions and can be managed using the same data models.

[BGP-YANG-MODEL]

; its future

The YANG data model for the operation and management of SR Policies
reports the SR Policies provisioned via BGP SR Policy SAFI along with their operational states.

[SR-POLICY-YANG]

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[RFC1997]

[RFC2119]

[RFC2545]

[RFC3032]

[RFC4271]

Chandra, R. Traina, P.
10.17487/RFC1997

,
T. Li "BGP Communities Attribute" RFC 1997 DOI
, and
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1997>
, August 1996,

,

.

,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

F. Dupont "Use of BGP-4 Multiprotocol Extensions for IPv6

 and

Marques, P.
Inter-Domain Routing" RFC 2545 DOI 10.17487/RFC2545
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2545>
.

,

,

, March 1999,

<https://

,

Rosen, E. Tappan, D. Fedorkow, G. Rekhter, Y. Farinacci, D. Li, T.
"MPLS Label Stack Encoding" RFC 3032 DOI 10.17487/RFC3032
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3032>

.

,

,

,

,

,

, and

A. Conta
, January 2001,

,

,

Rekhter, Y., Ed. Li, T., Ed.
(BGP-4)" RFC 4271 DOI 10.17487/RFC4271
editor.org/info/rfc4271>

, and

,

,

.

,
, January 2006,

S. Hares, Ed. "A Border Gateway Protocol 4

<https://www.rfc-

Previdi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 9830

Segment Routing Policies in BGP

September 2025

[RFC4360]

[RFC4760]

[RFC5462]

[RFC6286]

[RFC7606]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8402]

[RFC8660]

[RFC8754]

[RFC8986]

[RFC9012]

Sangli, S. Tappan, D.
,
RFC 4360 DOI 10.17487/RFC4360
,
info/rfc4360>

, and

.

Y. Rekhter "BGP Extended Communities Attribute"
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, February 2006,

,

,

Bates, T. Chandra, R. Katz, D.
,
BGP-4" RFC 4760 DOI 10.17487/RFC4760
editor.org/info/rfc4760>

, and

,

,

.

Y. Rekhter "Multiprotocol Extensions for

,

, January 2007,

<https://www.rfc-

 and

Andersson, L.
Entry: "EXP" Field Renamed to "Traffic Class" Field" RFC 5462 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5462

R. Asati "Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) Label Stack

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5462>

, February 2009,

,

,

,

.

 and

Chen, E.
,
BGP-4" RFC 6286 DOI 10.17487/RFC6286
,
info/rfc6286>

,

.

J. Yuan "Autonomous-System-Wide Unique BGP Identifier for

, June 2011,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

,

K. Patel "Revised Error
, and
Chen, E., Ed. Scudder, J., Ed. Mohapatra, P.
Handling for BGP UPDATE Messages" RFC 7606 DOI 10.17487/RFC7606
,
2015,
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7606>

,

,

,

, August

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

, June

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Filsfils, C., Ed. Previdi, S., Ed. Ginsberg, L. Decraene, B. Litkowski, S.
Shakir "Segment Routing Architecture" RFC 8402 DOI 10.17487/RFC8402
2018,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8402>

.

,

,

,

,

,

, and

R.
, July

,

Bashandy, A., Ed. Filsfils, C., Ed. Previdi, S. Decraene, B. Litkowski, S.
R.
Shakir "Segment Routing with the MPLS Data Plane" RFC 8660 DOI 10.17487/
,
RFC8660

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8660>

, December 2019,

, and

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

Filsfils, C., Ed. Dukes, D., Ed. Previdi, S. Leddy, J. Matsushima, S.
"IPv6 Segment Routing Header (SRH)" RFC 8754 DOI 10.17487/RFC8754
2020,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8754>

, and

,
,

,

,

,

.

D. Voyer
,
, March

,

Filsfils, C., Ed. Camarillo, P., Ed. Leddy, J. Voyer, D. Matsushima, S.
"Segment Routing over IPv6 (SRv6) Network Programming" RFC 8986 DOI
10.17487/RFC8986

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8986>

, February 2021,

, and
,

Z. Li

,

,

,

,

.

,

,

Patel, K. Van de Velde, G. Sangli, S.
Encapsulation Attribute" RFC 9012 DOI 10.17487/RFC9012
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9012>

, and
,

,
,

,

.

J. Scudder "The BGP Tunnel

, April 2021,

<https://

Previdi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 33

RFC 9830

Segment Routing Policies in BGP

September 2025

[RFC9256]

,

Filsfils, C. Talaulikar, K., Ed. Voyer, D. Bogdanov, A.
Routing Policy Architecture" RFC 9256 DOI 10.17487/RFC9256
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9256>

, and

,
,

,
,

.

P. Mattes "Segment
,
, July 2022,

9.2.  Informative References

[BGP-LS-SR-POLICY]

Previdi, S. Talaulikar, K., Ed. Dong, J. Gredler, H.

,

,

,

, and

"Advertisement of Segment Routing Policies using BGP Link-State" Work in
Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-idr-bgp-ls-sr-policy-17
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-idr-bgp-ls-sr-policy-17>

, 6 March 2025,

,

.

<https://

J. Tantsura
,

,

[BGP-YANG-MODEL]

Jethanandani, M. Patel, K. Hares, S.
,

, and

J. Haas "YANG Model for

,

Border Gateway Protocol (BGP-4)" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-
idr-bgp-model-18
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-
ietf-idr-bgp-model-18>

.

,

,
,
, 21 October 2024,

[RFC4272]

[RFC4456]

[RFC6952]

[RFC9552]

[RFC9831]

Murphy, S. "BGP Security Vulnerabilities Analysis" RFC 4272 DOI 10.17487/
RFC4272

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4272>

, January 2006,

,

,

,

.

, and

Bates, T. Chen, E.
,
Mesh Internal BGP (IBGP)" RFC 4456 DOI 10.17487/RFC4456
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4456>

,

,

.

R. Chandra "BGP Route Reflection: An Alternative to Full

,

, April 2006,

,

Jethanandani, M. Patel, K.
L. Zheng "Analysis of BGP, LDP, PCEP, and MSDP
,
Issues According to the Keying and Authentication for Routing Protocols (KARP)
Design Guide" RFC 6952 DOI 10.17487/RFC6952
,
editor.org/info/rfc6952>
.

<https://www.rfc-

, May 2013,

, and

,

Talaulikar, K., Ed. "Distribution of Link-State and Traffic Engineering
Information Using BGP" RFC 9552 DOI 10.17487/RFC9552
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9552>

.

,

,

, December 2023,

Talaulikar, K., Ed. Filsfils, C. Previdi, S. Mattes, P.
, and
Extensions for BGP Segment Routing (SR) Policy" RFC 9831 DOI 10.17487/
,
RFC9831

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9831>

, September 2025,

D. Jain "Segment Type

,

,

,

,

,

.

[SR-POLICY-YANG]

,

Raza, K., Ed. Saleh, T. Shunwan, Z. Voyer, D. Durrani, M. Matsushima, S.
,
V. Beeram "YANG Data Model for Segment Routing Policy" Work in

and
Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-spring-sr-policy-yang-05
, 25 May 2025,
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-spring-sr-policy-yang-05>
.

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

Acknowledgments

,

The authors of this document would like to thank
Krol Alex id Bogdanov Nandan Saha Bruno Decraene Gurusiddesh Nidasesi Kausik Majumdar
,
Zafar Ali Swadesh Agarwal Jakob Heitz Viral Patel Peng Shaofu Cheng Li Martin Vigoureux
,
John Scudder Vincent Roca Brian Haberman Mohamed Boucadair Shunwan Zhuang Andrew
,
Alston Jeffrey (Zhaohui) Zhang Nagendra Nainar Rajesh Melarcode Venkateswaran Nat Kao
,

Shyam Sethuram John Scudder Przemyslaw

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Previdi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 34

RFC 9830

Segment Routing Policies in BGP

September 2025

,

Boris Hassanov Vincent Roca Russ Housley
review of this document. The authors would like to thank
review that helped in improving the document.

, and

,

Dan Romascanu

 for their comments and

Susan Hares

 for her detailed shepherd

Contributors

Eric Rosen
Juniper Networks
United States of America
Email:

erosen@juniper.net

Arjun Sreekantiah
Cisco Systems
United States of America
Email:

asreekan@cisco.com

Acee Lindem
Cisco Systems
United States of America
Email:

acee@cisco.com

Siva Sivabalan
Cisco Systems
United States of America
Email:
msiva@cisco.com

Imtiyaz Mohammad
Arista Networks
India
Email:

imtiyaz@arista.com

Gaurav Dawra
Cisco Systems
United States of America
Email:

gdawra.ietf@gmail.com

Peng Shaofu
ZTE Corporation
China
Email:

peng.shaofu@zte.com.cn

Steven Lin
Calix
United States of America
Email:

steven.lin@calix.com

Previdi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 35

RFC 9830

Segment Routing Policies in BGP

September 2025

Authors' Addresses

Stefano Previdi
Huawei Technologies
Italy
Email:

stefano@previdi.net

Clarence Filsfils
Cisco Systems
Brussels
Belgium
Email:

cfilsfil@cisco.com

editor
)

Ketan Talaulikar (
Cisco Systems
India
Email:

ketant.ietf@gmail.com

Paul Mattes
Microsoft
One Microsoft Way
Redmond WA 98052
,
United States of America
Email:

pamattes@microsoft.com

Dhanendra Jain
Google
Email:

dhanendra.ietf@gmail.com

Previdi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 36

