Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9448
Standards Track
September 2023
2070-1721
C. Wendt
Somos Inc.

D. Hancock
Somos Inc.

M. Barnes
Neustar Inc.

J. Peterson
Neustar Inc.

RFC 9448
TNAuthList Profile of Automated Certificate
Management Environment (ACME) Authority Token

Abstract

This document defines a profile of the Automated Certificate Management Environment (ACME)
Authority Token for the automated and authorized creation of certificates for Voice over IP (VoIP)
telephone providers to support Secure Telephone Identity (STI) using the TNAuthList defined by
STI certificates.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9448
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in effect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Wendt, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9448

ACME TNAuthList Authority Token

September 2023

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Requirements Language

3.  ACME New-Order Identifiers for TNAuthList

4.  TNAuthList Identifier Authorization

5.  TNAuthList Authority Token

5.1.  "iss" Claim

5.2.  "exp" Claim

5.3.  "jti" Claim

5.4.  "atc" Claim

5.5.  Acquiring the Token from the Token Authority

5.6.  Token Authority Responsibilities

5.7.  Scope of the TNAuthList

6.  Validating the TNAuthList Authority Token

7.  Using ACME-Issued Certificates with JSON Web Signature

8.  Usage Considerations

8.1.  Large Number of Noncontiguous TNAuthList Values

9.  IANA Considerations

10. Security Considerations

11. References

11.1.  Normative References

11.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

3

3

3

5

7

7

7

7

8

8

9

10

10

11

12

12

12

13

13

13

14

14

14

Wendt, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9448

ACME TNAuthList Authority Token

September 2023

1.  Introduction

 describes a mechanism for automating certificate management on the Internet. It

[RFC8555]
enables administrative entities to prove effective control over resources like domain names, and
it automates the process of generating and issuing certificates.
provide a general method of extending the authority and authorization of entities to control a
resource via a third party Token Authority beyond the certification authority (CA).

 extends ACME to

[RFC9447]

[RFC9447]
.

[RFC7340]

, which identifies the need for Internet credentials that can

This document is a profile document using the Authority Token mechanism defined in
It is a profile that specifically addresses the Secure Telephone Identity Revisited (STIR) problem
statement described in
attest authority for the originator of VoIP calls in order to detect impersonation, which is
currently an enabler for common attacks associated with illegal robocalling, voicemail hacking,
and swatting. These credentials are used to sign Personal Assertion Tokens (PASSporTs)
[RFC8225]
defined credentials for this purpose are the certificates specified in
TNAuthList. This document defines the use of the TNAuthList Authority Token in the ACME
challenge to prove the authoritative use of the contents of the TNAuthList, including a Service
Provider Code (SPC), a telephone number, or a set of telephone numbers or telephone number
blocks.

, which can be carried in using protocols such as SIP

. Currently, the only
 using the

[RFC8226]

[RFC8224]

This document also describes the ability for a telephone authority to authorize the creation of CA
types of certificates for delegation, as defined in

[RFC9060]
.

2.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  ACME New-Order Identifiers for TNAuthList

Section 7 of [RFC8555]
 defines the procedure that an ACME client uses to order a new certificate
from a CA. The new-order request contains an identifier field that specifies the identifier objects
the order corresponds to. This document defines a new type of identifier object called
TNAuthList. A TNAuthList identifier contains the identity information to be populated in the
TNAuthList of the new certificate. For the TNAuthList identifier, the new-order request includes a
type set to the string "TNAuthList". The value of the TNAuthList identifier
details of the TNAuthList requested.

 be set to the

MUST

Wendt, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9448

ACME TNAuthList Authority Token

September 2023

The string that represents the TNAuthList
described in
The base64url encoding
object

Section 5 of [RFC4648]
MUST NOT

MUST

 be encoded using DER encoding rules.

 be constructed using base64url encoding, as

MUST
 and as defined in
 include any padding characters, and the TNAuthList ASN.1

Section 2 of JSON Web Signature [RFC7515]
.

An example of an ACME order object "identifiers" field containing a TNAuthList certificate is as
follows:

 "identifiers": [{"type":"TNAuthList","value":"F83n2a...avn27DN3"}]

where the "value" object string represents the arbitrary length of the base64url-encoded string.

A full new-order request would look as follows:

POST /acme/new-order HTTP/1.1
Host: example.com
Content-Type: application/jose+json

{
  "protected": base64url({
    "alg": "ES256",
    "kid": "https://example.com/acme/acct/evOfKhNU60wg",
    "nonce": "5XJ1L3lEkMG7tR6pA00clA",
    "url": "https://example.com/acme/new-order"
  }),
  "payload": base64url({
    "identifiers": [{"type":"TNAuthList","value":"F83n...n27DN3"}],
    "notBefore": "2021-01-01T00:00:00Z",
    "notAfter": "2021-01-08T00:00:00Z"
  }),
  "signature": "H6ZXtGjTZyUnPeKn...wEA4TklBdh3e454g"
}

On receiving a valid new-order request, the ACME server creates an authorization object
[RFC8555], Section 7.1.4
(
demonstrate authority for the identifiers specified by the new order (in this case, the TNAuthList
identifier). The CA adds the authorization object URL to the "authorizations" field of the order
object and returns the order object to the ACME client in the body of a 201 (Created) response.

), containing the challenge that the ACME client must satisfy to

Wendt, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9448

ACME TNAuthList Authority Token

September 2023

HTTP/1.1 201 Created
Content-Type: application/json
Replay-Nonce: MYAuvOpaoIiywTezizk5vw
Location: https://example.com/acme/order/1234

{
  "status": "pending",
  "expires": "2022-01-08T00:00:00Z",

  "notBefore": "2022-01-01T00:00:00Z",
  "notAfter": "2022-01-08T00:00:00Z",
  "identifiers":[{"type":"TNAuthList",
                 "value":"F83n2a...avn27DN3"}],

  "authorizations": [
   "https://example.com/acme/authz/1234"
  ],
  "finalize": "https://example.com/acme/order/1234/finalize"
}

4.  TNAuthList Identifier Authorization

On receiving the new-order response, the ACME client queries the referenced authorization
object to obtain the challenges for the identifier contained in the new-order request, as shown in
the following example request and response.

POST /acme/authz/1234 HTTP/1.1
    Host: example.com
    Content-Type: application/jose+json

    {
      "protected": base64url({
        "alg": "ES256",
        "kid": " https://example.com/acme/acct/evOfKhNU60wg",
        "nonce": "uQpSjlRb4vQVCjVYAyyUWg",
        "url": "https://example.com/acme/authz/1234"
      }),
      "payload": "",
      "signature": "nuSDISbWG8mMgE7H...QyVUL68yzf3Zawps"
    }

Wendt, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9448

ACME TNAuthList Authority Token

September 2023

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json
Link: <https://example.com/acme/some-directory>;rel="index"

{
  "status": "pending",
  "expires": "2022-01-08T00:00:00Z",

  "identifier": {
    "type":"TNAuthList",
    "value":"F83n2a...avn27DN3"
  },

  "challenges": [
    {
      "type": "tkauth-01",
      "tkauth-type": "atc",
      "token-authority": "https://authority.example.org",
      "url": "https://example.com/acme/chall/prV_B7yEyA4",
      "token": "IlirfxKKXAsHtmzK29Pj8A"
    }
  ]
}

When processing a certificate order containing an identifier of type "TNAuthList", a CA uses the
Authority Token challenge type of "tkauth-01" with a "tkauth-type" of "atc" in
 to verify
that the requesting ACME client has authenticated and authorized control over the requested
resources represented by the "TNAuthList" value.

[RFC9447]

The challenge "token-authority" parameter is only used in cases where the VoIP telephone
network requires the CA to identify the Token Authority. This is currently not the case for the
Signature-based Handling of Asserted information using toKENs (SHAKEN)
certificate framework governance but may be used by other frameworks. If a "token-authority"
parameter is present, then the ACME client
 use the "token-authority" value to identify the
URL representing the Token Authority that will provide the TNAuthList Authority Token response
to the challenge. If the "token-authority" parameter is not present, then the ACME client
identify the Token Authority based on locally configured information or local policies.

[ATIS-1000080]

MUST

MAY

The ACME client responds to the challenge by posting the TNAuthList Authority Token to the
challenge URL identified in the returned ACME authorization object, an example of which
follows:

Wendt, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9448

ACME TNAuthList Authority Token

September 2023

POST /acme/chall/prV_B7yEyA4 HTTP/1.1
Host: boulder.example.com
Content-Type: application/jose+json

{
  "protected": base64url({
  "alg": "ES256",
  "kid": "https://example.com/acme/acct/evOfKhNU60wg",
  "nonce": "Q_s3MWoqT05TrdkM2MTDcw",
  "url": "https://boulder.example.com/acme/authz/asdf/0"
  }),
  "payload": base64url({
  "tkauth": "DGyRejmCefe7v4N...vb29HhjjLPSggwiE"
  }),
  "signature": "9cbg5JO1Gf5YLjjz...SpkUfcdPai9uVYYQ"
}

The "tkauth" field is defined as a new field in the challenge object specific to the tkauth-01
challenge type that should contain the TNAuthList Authority Token defined in the next section.

5.  TNAuthList Authority Token

The TNAuthList Authority Token is a profile instance of the ACME Authority Token defined in
[RFC9447]
.

The TNAuthList Authority Token protected header
Section 6.2 of [RFC8555]
).
(

MUST

 comply with "Request Authentication"

The TNAuthList Authority Token Payload
"atc" and
subsections.

MAY

 include the mandatory claims "exp", "jti", and
 include the optional claims defined for the Authority Token detailed in the next

MUST

5.1.  "iss" Claim

The "iss" claim is an optional claim defined in
identifying the Token Authority that issued the TNAuthList Authority Token beyond the "x5u" or
other header claims that identify the location of the certificate or certificate chain of the Token
Authority used to validate the TNAuthList Authority Token.

. It can be used as a URL

[RFC7519], Section 4.1.1

5.2.  "exp" Claim

The "exp" claim, defined in
value of the ending date and time that the TNAuthList Authority Token expires.

[RFC7519], Section 4.1.4 MUST

,

 be included and contains the DateTime

5.3.  "jti" Claim

The "jti" claim, defined in
identifier for this TNAuthList Authority Token transaction.

[RFC7519], Section 4.1.7 MUST

,

 be included and contains a unique

Wendt, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9448

ACME TNAuthList Authority Token

September 2023

5.4.  "atc" Claim

The "atc" claim
following elements:

MUST

 be included and is defined in

[RFC9447]

. It contains a JSON object with the

•

a "tktype" key with a string value equal to "TNAuthList" to represent a TNAuthList profile of
the Authority Token
MUST

 defined by this document. "tktype" is a required key and

 be included.

[RFC9447]

•

a "tkvalue" key with a string value equal to the base64url encoding of the TNAuthList
certificate extension ASN.1 object using DER encoding rules. "tkvalue" is a required key and
MUST

 be included.

•

a "ca" key with a boolean value set to either true when the requested certificate is allowed to
be a CA cert for delegation uses or false when the requested certificate is not intended to be a
CA cert, only an end-entity certificate. "ca" is an optional key; if not included, the "ca" value is
considered false by default.

•

a "fingerprint" key constructed as defined in
computation of the "Thumbprint" step using the ACME account key credentials. "fingerprint"
is a required key and

, corresponding to the

[RFC8555], Section 8.1

 be included.

MUST

An example of the TNAuthList Authority Token is as follows:

{
  "protected": base64url({
    "typ":"JWT",
    "alg":"ES256",
    "x5u":"https://authority.example.org/cert"
  }),
  "payload": base64url({
    "iss":"https://authority.example.org",
    "exp":1640995200,
    "jti":"id6098364921",
    "atc":{"tktype":"TNAuthList",
      "tkvalue":"F83n2a...avn27DN3",
      "ca":false,
      "fingerprint":"SHA256 56:3E:CF:AE:83:CA:4D:15:B0:29:FF:1B:71:
       D3:BA:B9:19:81:F8:50:9B:DF:4A:D4:39:72:E2:B1:F0:B9:38:E3"}
  }),
  "signature": "9cbg5JO1Gf5YLjjz...SpkUfcdPai9uVYYQ"
}

5.5.  Acquiring the Token from the Token Authority

Following
POST transaction as follows:

[RFC9447], Section 5

, the Authority Token should be acquired using a RESTful HTTP

Wendt, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9448

ACME TNAuthList Authority Token

September 2023

  POST /at/account/:id/token HTTP/1.1
  Host: authority.example.org
  Content-Type: application/json

The request will pass the account identifier as a string in the request parameter "id". This string
will be managed as an identifier specific to the Token Authority's relationship with a
Communications Service Provider (CSP). There is assumed to also be a corresponding
authentication procedure that can be verified for the success of this transaction, for example, an
HTTP authorization header containing valid authorization credentials, as defined in
[RFC9110],
Section 11.6.2
.

The body of the POST request
values that are requested as the content of the claims in the issued token. As an example, the
body

 contain a JSON object with key value pairs corresponding to

 contain a JSON object as follows:

SHOULD

MUST

 {
   "tktype":"TNAuthList",
   "tkvalue":"F83n2a...avn27DN3",
   "ca":false,
   "fingerprint":"SHA256 56:3E:CF:AE:83:CA:4D:15:B0:29:FF:1B:71:D3
     :BA:B9:19:81:F8:50:9B:DF:4A:D4:39:72:E2:B1:F0:B9:38:E3"
 }

If successful, the response to the POST request returns a 200 (OK) with a JSON body that contains,
at a minimum, the TNAuthList Authority Token as a JSON object with a key of "token" and the
base64url-encoded string representing the atc token. JSON is easily extensible, so users of this
specification may want to pass other pieces of information relevant to a specific application.

An example of a successful response would be as follows:

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json

{"token": "DGyRejmCefe7v4N...vb29HhjjLPSggwiE"}

If the request is not successful, the response should indicate the error condition. Specifically, for
the case that the authorization credentials are invalid or if the account identifier provided does
 follow
not exist, the response code
standard HTTP error condition conventions

 be 403 (Forbidden). Other 4xx and 5xx responses

[RFC9110]
.

MUST

MUST

5.6.  Token Authority Responsibilities

When creating the TNAuthList Authority Token, the Token Authority
information contained in the ASN.1 TNAuthList accurately represents the service provider code
(SPC) or telephone number (TN) resources the requesting party is authorized to represent based
on their pre-established, verified, and secure relationship between the Token Authority and the

 validate that the

MUST

Wendt, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9448

ACME TNAuthList Authority Token

September 2023

requesting party. Note that the fingerprint in the token request is not meant to be verified by the
Token Authority but rather is meant to be signed as part of the token so that the party that
requests the token can, as part of the challenge response, allow the ACME server to validate that
the token requested and used came from the same party that controls the ACME client.

5.7.  Scope of the TNAuthList

, which

[RFC8226]

Because this specification specifically involves the TNAuthList defined in
involves SPC, telephone number ranges, and individual telephone numbers, the client may also
request an Authority Token with some subset of its own authority as the TNAuthList provided in
the "tkvalue" element in the "atc" JSON object. Generally, the scope of authority representing a
CSP is represented by a particular SPC (e.g., in North America, an operating company number
(OCN) or service provider identifier (SPID)). Based on number allocations, that provider is also
generally associated with a particular set of different telephone number ranges and/or telephone
numbers. The TNAuthList can be constructed to define a limited scope of the
) either associated with an
TelephoneNumberRanges or TelephoneNumbers (
SPC or with the scope of telephone number ranges or telephone numbers the client has authority
over.

[RFC8226], Section 9

As recommended in the Security Considerations section in
either have a scope that attests all of the resources that a client is eligible to receive certificates
for or potentially a more limited scope that is intended to capture only those resources for which
a client will receive a certificate from a particular certification authority. Any certification
authority that sees an Authority Token can learn information about the resources a client can
claim. In cases where this incurs a privacy risk, Authority Token scopes should be limited to only
the resources that will be attested by the requested ACME certificate.

, an Authority Token can

[RFC9447]

6.  Validating the TNAuthList Authority Token

Upon receiving a response to the challenge, the ACME server
to determine the validity of the response.

MUST

 perform the following steps

1.

Verify that the value of the "atc" claim is a well-formed JSON object containing the
mandatory key values.

2.

If there is an "x5u" parameter, verify the "x5u" parameter is an HTTPS URL with a reference
to a certificate representing the trusted issuer of Authority Tokens for the ecosystem.

3.

If there is an "x5c" parameter, verify the certificate array contains a certificate representing
the trusted issuer of Authority Tokens for the ecosystem.

4.

Verify the TNAuthList Authority Token signature using the public key of the certificate
referenced by the token's "x5u" or "x5c" parameter.

5.

Verify that "atc" claim contains a "tktype" identifier with the value "TNAuthList".

6.

Verify that the "atc" claim "tkvalue" identifier contains the equivalent base64url-encoded
TNAuthList certificate extension string value as the identifier specified in the original
challenge.

7.

Verify that the remaining claims are valid (e.g., verify that token has not expired).

Wendt, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9448

ACME TNAuthList Authority Token

September 2023

8.

Verify that the "atc" claim "fingerprint" is valid and matches the account key of the client
making the request.

9.

Verify that the "atc" claim "ca" identifier boolean corresponds to the CA boolean in the Basic
Constraints extension in the Certificate Signing Request (CSR) for either CA certificate or end-
entity certificate.

If all steps in the token validation process pass, then the ACME server
object "status" to "valid". If any step of the validation process fails, the "status" in the challenge
object

 be set to "invalid".

 set the challenge

MUST

MUST

7.  Using ACME-Issued Certificates with JSON Web Signature

[RFC7515]

 uses "x5u" to indicate the STIR certificate used to validate the PASSporT JWS object.

JSON Web Signature (JWS)
 objects can include an "x5u" header parameter to refer to a
certificate that is used to validate the JWS signature. For example, the STIR PASSporT framework
[RFC8225]
The URLs used in "x5u" are expected to provide the required certificate in response to a GET
request, not a POST-as-GET, as required for the "certificate" URL in the ACME order object. Thus,
the current mechanism generally requires the ACME client to download the certificate and host it
on a public URL to make it accessible to relying parties. This section defines an optional
mechanism for the certification authority (CA) to host the certificate directly and provide a URL
that the ACME client owner can directly reference in the "x5u" of their signed PASSporTs.

Section 7.4 of [RFC8555]

, when the certificate is ready for making a "finalize"
As described in
request, the server will return a 200 (OK) with the updated order object. In this response, an
ACME server can add a newly defined field called "x5u" that can pass this URL to the ACME client
for usage in generated PASSporTs as a publicly available URL for PASSporT validation.

x5u (optional, string):
of a JWS object

[RFC7515]

a URL that can be used to reference the certificate in the "x5u" parameter

The publishing of the certificates at the new "x5u" URL should follow the GET request
requirement as mentioned above and should be consistent with the timely publication according
to the durations of the certificate life cycle.

The following is an example of the use of "x5u" in the response when the certificate status is
"valid".

Wendt, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9448

ACME TNAuthList Authority Token

September 2023

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json
Replay-Nonce: CGf81JWBsq8QyIgPCi9Q9X
Link: <https://example.com/acme/directory>;rel="index"
Location: https://example.com/acme/order/TOlocE8rfgo

{
  "status": "valid",
  "expires": "2016-01-20T14:09:07.99Z",

  "notBefore": "2016-01-01T00:00:00Z",
  "notAfter": "2016-01-08T00:00:00Z",

  "identifiers": [
    "type":"TNAuthList",
    "value":"F83n2a...avn27DN3"
  ],

  "authorizations": ["https://sti-ca.com/acme/authz/1234"],

  "finalize": "https://example.com/acme/order/TOlocE8rfgo/finalize",

  "certificate": "https://example.com/acme/cert/mAt3xBGaobw",

  "x5u": "https://example.com/cert-repo/giJI53km23.pem"
}

8.  Usage Considerations

8.1.  Large Number of Noncontiguous TNAuthList Values

[RFC8226]

 has provided a somewhat unbounded set of combinations. It's possible that a

There are many scenarios and reasons to have various combinations of SPCs, TNs, and TN
ranges.
complex noncontiguous set of telephone numbers are being managed by a CSP. Best practice may
be simply to split a set of noncontiguous numbers under management into multiple STI
certificates to represent the various contiguous parts of the greater noncontiguous set of TNs,
particularly if the length of the set of values in an identifier object grows to be too large.

9.  IANA Considerations

Per this document, IANA has added a new identifier object type to the "ACME Identifier Types"
registry defined in

Section 9.7.7 of [RFC8555]
.

Label

Reference

TNAuthList

RFC 9448

Table 1

Wendt, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9448

ACME TNAuthList Authority Token

September 2023

10.  Security Considerations

The token represented by this document has the credentials to represent the scope of a telephone
number, a block of telephone numbers, or an entire set of telephone numbers represented by an
SPC. The creation, transport, and any storage of this token
 follow the strictest of security
best practices beyond the recommendations of the use of encrypted transport protocols in this
document to protect it from getting in the hands of bad actors with illegitimate intent to
impersonate telephone numbers.

MUST

This document inherits the security properties of
best practices identified in

[RFC8725]
.

[RFC9447]

. Implementations should follow the

This document only specifies SHA256 for the fingerprint hash. However, the syntax of the
fingerprint object would permit other algorithms if, due to concerns about algorithmic agility, a
more robust algorithm were required at a future time. Future specifications can define new
algorithms for the fingerprint object as needed.

11.  References

11.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC4648]

[RFC7515]

[RFC7519]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8226]

[RFC8555]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Josefsson, S. "The Base16, Base32, and Base64 Data Encodings" RFC 4648 DOI
10.17487/RFC4648

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4648>

, October 2006,

,

,

.

Jones, M. Bradley, J.
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC7515

N. Sakimura "JSON Web Signature (JWS)" RFC 7515
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7515>

, May 2015,

,

,

, and

,

Jones, M. Bradley, J.
,
10.17487/RFC7519

, and

N. Sakimura "JSON Web Token (JWT)" RFC 7519 DOI

,

,

,

, May 2015,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7519>

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

 and

Peterson, J.
RFC 8226 DOI 10.17487/RFC8226
,
info/rfc8226>

.

S. Turner "Secure Telephone Identity Credentials: Certificates"

,

,

, February 2018,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

,

J. Kasten "Automatic
Barnes, R. Hoffman-Andrews, J. McCarney, D.
Certificate Management Environment (ACME)" RFC 8555 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8555

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8555>

, March 2019,

, and
,

,

,

,

.

Wendt, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9448

ACME TNAuthList Authority Token

September 2023

[RFC8725]

[RFC9060]

[RFC9110]

[RFC9447]

Sheffer, Y. Hardt, D.
,
BCP 225 RFC 8725 DOI 10.17487/RFC8725
,
editor.org/info/rfc8725>

, and

,

,

.

M. Jones "JSON Web Token Best Current Practices"
<https://www.rfc-
, February 2020,

,

,

Peterson, J. "Secure Telephone Identity Revisited (STIR) Certificate Delegation"
,
RFC 9060 DOI 10.17487/RFC9060
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/
info/rfc9060>

, September 2021,

,

.

,

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
97 RFC 9110 DOI 10.17487/RFC9110
rfc9110>

,

,

.

, and
, June 2022,

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP Semantics" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

,

,

Peterson, J. Barnes, M. Hancock, D.
, and
Management Environment (ACME) Challenges Using an Authority Token" RFC
9447 DOI 10.17487/RFC9447
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
,
rfc9447>

C. Wendt "Automated Certificate
,

, September 2023,

,

.

11.2.  Informative References

[ATIS-1000080]

[RFC7340]

[RFC8224]

[RFC8225]

,

ATIS "Signature-based Handling of Asserted information using toKENs
(SHAKEN): Governance Model and Certificate Management" ATIS-1000080.v005
,
December 2022,
<https://access.atis.org/apps/group_public/download.php/69428/
ATIS-1000080.v005.pdf>

,

.

,

Peterson, J. Schulzrinne, H.
Problem Statement and Requirements" RFC 7340 DOI 10.17487/RFC7340
September 2014,

H. Tschofenig "Secure Telephone Identity
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7340>

, and

,

,

,

.

,

Peterson, J. Jennings, C. Rescorla, E.
, and
Management in the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)" RFC 8224 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8224

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8224>

C. Wendt "Authenticated Identity

, February 2018,

,

,

,

,

.

Wendt, C.
10.17487/RFC8225

J. Peterson "PASSporT: Personal Assertion Token" RFC 8225 DOI

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8225>

,
, February 2018,

 and

,

.

Acknowledgements

We would like to thank
document.

Richard Barnes

 and

Russ Housley

 for valuable contributions to this

Authors' Addresses

Chris Wendt
Somos Inc.
United States of America
Email:

 chris-ietf@chriswendt.net

Wendt, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9448

ACME TNAuthList Authority Token

September 2023

David Hancock
Somos Inc.
United States of America
Email:

 davidhancock.ietf@gmail.com

Mary Barnes
Neustar Inc.
United States of America
Email:

 mary.ietf.barnes@gmail.com

Jon Peterson
Neustar Inc.
Suite 570
1800 Sutter St
Concord CA 94520
,
United States of America
Email:

 jon.peterson@neustar.biz

Wendt, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

