Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9067
Standards Track
October 2021
2070-1721
Y. Qu
Futurewei

J. Tantsura
Microsoft

A. Lindem
Cisco

X. Liu
Volta Networks

RFC 9067
A YANG Data Model for Routing Policy

Abstract

This document deﬁnes a YANG data model for conﬁguring and managing routing policies in a
vendor-neutral way. The model provides a generic routing policy framework that can be
extended for speciﬁc routing protocols using the YANG 'augment' mechanism.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

.
https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9067

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

Qu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9067

Routing Policy YANG Data Model

October 2021

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Goals and Approach

2.  Terminology and Notation

2.1.  Tree Diagrams

2.2.  Preﬁxes in Data Node Names

3.  Model Overview

4.  Route Policy Expression

4.1.  Deﬁned Sets for Policy Matching

4.2.  Policy Conditions

4.3.  Policy Actions

4.4.  Policy Subroutines

5.  Policy Evaluation

6.  Applying Routing Policy

7.  YANG Module and Tree

7.1.  Routing Policy Model Tree

7.2.  Routing Policy Model

8.  Security Considerations

9.  IANA Considerations

10. References

10.1.  Normative References

10.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Routing Protocol-Speciﬁc Policies

Appendix B.  Policy Examples

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

Qu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9067

Routing Policy YANG Data Model

October 2021

1.  Introduction

This document describes a YANG data model
operational usage and best practices in a variety of service provider networks. The model is
intended to be vendor neutral to allow operators to manage policy conﬁguration consistently in
environments with routers supplied by multiple vendors.

 for routing policy conﬁguration based on

[RFC7950]

The YANG modules in this document conform to the Network Management Datastore
Architecture (NMDA)

[RFC8342]

.

1.1.  Goals and Approach

This model does not aim to be feature complete; it is a subset of the policy conﬁguration
parameters available in a variety of vendor implementations but supports widely used
constructs for managing how routes are imported, exported, and modiﬁed across diﬀerent
routing protocols. The model development approach has been to examine actual policy
conﬁgurations in use across several operator networks. Hence, the focus is on enabling policy
conﬁguration capabilities and structure that are in wide use.

Despite the diﬀerences in details of policy expressions and conventions in various vendor
implementations, the model reﬂects the observation that a relatively simple condition-action
approach can be readily mapped to several existing vendor implementations and also gives
operators a familiar and straightforward way to express policy. A side eﬀect of this design
decision is that other methods for expressing policies are not considered.

Consistent with the goal to produce a data model that is vendor neutral, only policy expressions
that are deemed to be widely available in prevalent implementations are included in the model.
Those conﬁguration items that are only available from a single implementation are omitted
from the model with the expectation they will be available in separate vendor-provided modules
that augment the current model.

2.  Terminology and Notation

", "
The key words "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
"
", "
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

Routing policy:

A routing policy deﬁnes how routes are imported, exported, modiﬁed, and

advertised between routing protocol instances or within a single routing protocol instance.

Policy chain:

A policy chain is a sequence of policy deﬁnitions. They can be referenced from

diﬀerent contexts.

Qu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9067

Routing Policy YANG Data Model

October 2021

Policy statement: Policy statements consist of a set of conditions and actions (either of which

may be empty).

The following terms are deﬁned in

[RFC8342]

:

•

client

•

server

•

conﬁguration

•

system state

•

operational state

•

intended conﬁguration

The following terms are deﬁned in

[RFC7950]

:

•

action

•

augment

•

container

•

container with presence

•

data model

•

data node

•

feature

•

leaf

•

list

•

mandatory node

•

module

•

schema tree

•

RPC (Remote Procedure Call) operation

2.1.  Tree Diagrams

Tree diagrams used in this document follow the notation deﬁned in

[RFC8340]

.

2.2.  Preﬁxes in Data Node Names

In this document, names of data nodes, actions, and other data model objects are often used
without a preﬁx if it is clear in which YANG module each name is deﬁned given the context.
Otherwise, names are preﬁxed using the standard preﬁx associated with the corresponding YANG
module, as shown in Table 1.

Preﬁx

YANG module

Reference

if

rt

ietf-interfaces

[RFC8343]

ietf-routing

[RFC8349]

Qu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9067

Routing Policy YANG Data Model

October 2021

Preﬁx

YANG module

Reference

yang

ietf-yang-types

[RFC6991]

inet

ietf-inet-types

[RFC6991]

Table 1: Preﬁxes and Corresponding YANG
Modules

3.  Model Overview

The routing policy module has three main parts:

•

A generic framework is provided to express policies as sets of related conditions and actions.
This includes match sets and actions that are useful across many routing protocols.

•

A structure that allows routing protocol models to add protocol-speciﬁc policy conditions
and actions through YANG augmentations is also provided. There is a complete example of
this for
BGP data model [IDR-BGP-
MODEL]
accomplished. Note that this section is not normative, as the BGP model is still evolving.

BGP [RFC4271]
. Appendix A provides an example of how an augmentation for BGP policies might be

 policies in the proposed vendor-neutral

•

Finally, a reusable grouping is deﬁned for attaching import and export rules in the context of
routing conﬁguration for diﬀerent protocols, Virtual Routing and Forwarding (VRF)
instances, etc. This also enables the creation of policy chains and the expression of default
policy behavior. In this document, policy chains are sequences of policy deﬁnitions that are
applied in order (described in Section 4).

The module makes use of the standard Internet types, such as IP addresses, autonomous system
numbers, etc., deﬁned in

RFC 6991 [RFC6991]

.

4.  Route Policy Expression

Policies are expressed as a sequence of top-level policy deﬁnitions, each of which consists of a
sequence of policy statements. Policy statements in turn consist of simple condition-action
tuples. Conditions may include multiple match or comparison operations, and similarly, actions
may include multiple changes to route attributes or indicate a ﬁnal disposition of accepting or
rejecting the route. This structure is shown below.

Qu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9067

Routing Policy YANG Data Model

October 2021

  +--rw routing-policy
     +--rw policy-definitions
        +--ro match-modified-attributes?   boolean
        +--rw policy-definition* [name]
           +--rw name          string
           +--rw statements
              +--rw statement* [name]
                 +--rw name          string
                 +--rw conditions
                 |     ...
                 +--rw actions
                       ...

4.1.  Deﬁned Sets for Policy Matching

The model provides a collection of generic sets that can be used for matching in policy
conditions. These sets are applicable for route selection across multiple routing protocols. They
may be further augmented by protocol-speciﬁc models that have their own deﬁned sets. The
deﬁned sets include:

preﬁx sets:

Each preﬁx set deﬁnes a set of IP preﬁxes, each with an associated IP preﬁx and

netmask range (or exact length).

neighbor sets:

Each neighbor set deﬁnes a set of neighboring nodes by their IP addresses. A

neighbor set is used for selecting routes based on the neighbors advertising the routes.

tag sets:

Each tag set deﬁnes a set of generic tag values that can be used in matches for selecting

routes.

The model structure for deﬁned sets is shown below.

    +--rw routing-policy
       +--rw defined-sets
       |  +--rw prefix-sets
       |  |  +--rw prefix-set* [name]
       |  |     +--rw name        string
       |  |     +--rw mode?       enumeration
       |  |     +--rw prefixes
       |  |        +--rw prefix-list* [ip-prefix mask-length-lower
       |  |                            mask-length-upper]
       |  |           +--rw ip-prefix           inet:ip-prefix
       |  |           +--rw mask-length-lower    uint8
       |  |           +--rw mask-length-upper    uint8
       |  +--rw neighbor-sets
       |  |  +--rw neighbor-set* [name]
       |  |     +--rw name       string
       |  |     +--rw address*   inet:ip-address
       |  +--rw tag-sets
       |     +--rw tag-set* [name]
       |        +--rw name         string
       |        +--rw tag-value*   tag-type

Qu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9067

Routing Policy YANG Data Model

October 2021

4.2.  Policy Conditions

Policy statements consist of a set of conditions and actions (either of which may be empty).
Conditions are used to match route attributes against a deﬁned set (e.g., a preﬁx set) or to
compare attributes against a speciﬁc value.

Match conditions may be further modiﬁed using the match-set-options conﬁguration, which
allows network operators to change the behavior of a match. Three options are supported:

'all':

Match is true only if the given value matches all members of the set.

'any':

Match is true if the given value matches any member of the set.

'invert':

Match is true if the given value does not match any member of the given set.

Not all options are appropriate for matching against all deﬁned sets (e.g., match 'all' in a preﬁx
set does not make sense). In the model, a restricted set of match options is used where applicable.

Comparison conditions may similarly use options to change how route attributes should be
tested, e.g., for equality or inequality, against a given value.

While most policy conditions will be added by individual routing protocol models via
augmentation, this routing policy model includes several generic match conditions and the
ability to test which protocol or mechanism installed a route (e.g., BGP, IGP, static, etc.). The
conditions included in the model are shown below.

  +--rw routing-policy
     +--rw policy-definitions
        +--rw policy-definition* [name]
           +--rw name          string
           +--rw statements
              +--rw statement* [name]
                 +--rw conditions
                 |  +--rw call-policy?
                 |  +--rw source-protocol?
                 |  +--rw match-interface
                 |  |  +--rw interface?
                 |  +--rw match-prefix-set
                 |  |  +--rw prefix-set?
                 |  |  +--rw match-set-options?
                 |  +--rw match-neighbor-set
                 |  |  +--rw neighbor-set?
                 |  +--rw match-tag-set
                 |  |  +--rw tag-set?
                 |  |  +--rw match-set-options?
                 |  +--rw match-route-type
                 |     +--rw route-type*

Qu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9067

Routing Policy YANG Data Model

October 2021

4.3.  Policy Actions

When policy conditions are satisﬁed, policy actions are used to set various attributes of the route
being processed or to indicate the ﬁnal disposition of the route, i.e., accept or reject.

Similar to policy conditions, the routing policy model includes generic actions in addition to the
basic route disposition actions. These are shown below.

  +--rw routing-policy
     +--rw policy-definitions
        +--rw policy-definition* [name]
           +--rw statements
              +--rw statement* [name]
                 +--rw actions
                    +--rw policy-result?   policy-result-type
                    +--rw set-metric
                    |  +--rw metric-modification?
                    |  |         metric-modification-type
                    |  +--rw metric?                 uint32
                    +--rw set-metric-type
                    |  +--rw metric-type?   identityref
                    +--rw set-route-level
                    |  +--rw route-level?   identityref
                    +--rw set-route-preference?      uint16
                    +--rw set-tag?               tag-type
                    +--rw set-application-tag?   tag-type

4.4.  Policy Subroutines

Policy 'subroutines' (or nested policies) are supported by allowing policy statement conditions to
reference other policy deﬁnitions using the call-policy conﬁguration. Called policies apply their
conditions and actions before returning to the calling policy statement and resuming evaluation.
The outcome of the called policy aﬀects the evaluation of the calling policy. If the called policy
results in an accept-route, then the subroutine returns an eﬀective Boolean true value to the
calling policy. For the calling policy, this is equivalent to a condition statement evaluating to a
true value, thus the calling party continues in its evaluation of the policy (see Section 5). Note that
the called policy may also modify attributes of the route in its action statements. Similarly, a
reject-route action returns false, and the calling policy evaluation will be aﬀected accordingly.
When the end of the subroutine policy statements is reached, the default route disposition action
is returned (i.e., Boolean false for reject-route). Consequently, a subroutine cannot explicitly
accept or reject a route. Rather, the called policy returns Boolean true if its outcome is accept-
route or Boolean false if its outcome is reject-route. Route acceptance or rejection is solely
determined by the top-level policy.

Note that the called policy may itself call other policies (subject to implementation limitations).
The model does not prescribe a nesting depth because this varies among implementations. For
example, an implementation may only support a single level of subroutine recursion. As with any
routing policy construction, care must be taken with nested policies to ensure that the eﬀective

Qu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9067

Routing Policy YANG Data Model

October 2021

return value results in the intended behavior. Nested policies are a convenience in many routing
policy constructions, but creating policies nested beyond a small number of levels (e.g., two to
three) is discouraged. Also, implementations
MUST
recursion among nested routing policies.

 perform validation to ensure that there is no

5.  Policy Evaluation

Evaluation of each policy deﬁnition proceeds by evaluating its individual policy statements in
the order that they are deﬁned. When all the condition statements in a policy statement are
satisﬁed, the corresponding action statements are executed. If the actions include either accept-
route or reject-route actions, evaluation of the current policy deﬁnition stops, and no further
policy statement is evaluated. If there are multiple policies in the policy chain, subsequent
policies are not evaluated. Policy chains are sequences of policy deﬁnitions (as described in
Section 4).

If the conditions are not satisﬁed, then evaluation proceeds to the next policy statement. If none
of the policy statement conditions are satisﬁed, then evaluation of the current policy deﬁnition
stops, and the next policy deﬁnition in the chain is evaluated. When the end of the policy chain is
reached, the default route disposition action is performed (i.e., reject-route unless an alternate
default action is speciﬁed for the chain).

Whether the route's pre-policy attributes are used for testing policy statement conditions is
dependent on the implementation-speciﬁc value of the match-modiﬁed-attributes leaf. If match-
modiﬁed-attributes is false and actions modify route attributes, these modiﬁcations are not used
for policy statement conditions. Conversely, if match-modiﬁed-attributes is true and actions
modify the policy application-speciﬁc attributes, the attributes as modiﬁed by the policy are used
for policy condition statements.

6.  Applying Routing Policy

Routing policy is applied by deﬁning and attaching policy chains in various routing contexts.
Policy chains are sequences of policy deﬁnitions (described in Section 4). They can be referenced
from diﬀerent contexts. For example, a policy chain could be associated with a routing protocol
and used to control its interaction with its protocol peers, or it could be used to control the
interaction between a routing protocol and the local routing information base. A policy chain has
an associated direction (import or export) with respect to the context in which it is referenced.

The routing policy model deﬁnes an apply-policy grouping that can be imported and used by
other models. As shown below, it allows deﬁnition of import and export policy chains, as well as
speciﬁes the default route disposition to be used when no policy deﬁnition in the chain results in a
ﬁnal decision.

Qu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9067

Routing Policy YANG Data Model

October 2021

      +--rw apply-policy
      |  +--rw import-policy*
      |  +--rw default-import-policy?   default-policy-type
      |  +--rw export-policy*
      |  +--rw default-export-policy?   default-policy-type

The default policy deﬁned by the model is to reject the route for both import and export policies.

7.  YANG Module and Tree

7.1.  Routing Policy Model Tree

The tree of the routing policy model is shown below.

Qu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9067

Routing Policy YANG Data Model

October 2021

module: ietf-routing-policy
  +--rw routing-policy
     +--rw defined-sets
     |  +--rw prefix-sets
     |  |  +--rw prefix-set* [name mode]
     |  |     +--rw name        string
     |  |     +--rw mode        enumeration
     |  |     +--rw prefixes
     |  |        +--rw prefix-list* [ip-prefix mask-length-lower
     |  |                            mask-length-upper]
     |  |           +--rw ip-prefix            inet:ip-prefix
     |  |           +--rw mask-length-lower    uint8
     |  |           +--rw mask-length-upper    uint8
     |  +--rw neighbor-sets
     |  |  +--rw neighbor-set* [name]
     |  |     +--rw name       string
     |  |     +--rw address*   inet:ip-address
     |  +--rw tag-sets
     |     +--rw tag-set* [name]
     |        +--rw name         string
     |        +--rw tag-value*   tag-type
     +--rw policy-definitions
        +--ro match-modified-attributes?   boolean
        +--rw policy-definition* [name]
           +--rw name          string
           +--rw statements
              +--rw statement* [name]
                 +--rw name          string
                 +--rw conditions
                 |  +--rw call-policy?       -> ../../../../../..
                 |                           /policy-definitions
                 |                           /policy-definition/name
                 |  +--rw source-protocol?      identityref
                 |  +--rw match-interface
                 |  |  +--rw interface?      if:interface-ref
                 |  +--rw match-prefix-set
                 |  |  +--rw prefix-set?     -> ../../../../../../..
                 |  |                        /defined-sets
                 |  |                        /prefix-sets
                 |  |                        /prefix-set/name
                 |  |  +--rw match-set-options?
                 |  |                        match-set-options-type
                 |  +--rw match-neighbor-set
                 |  |  +--rw neighbor-set?   -> ../../../../../../..
                 |  |                        /defined-sets
                 |  |                        /neighbor-sets
                 |  |                        /neighbor-set/name
                 |  +--rw match-tag-set
                 |  |  +--rw tag-set?        -> ../../../../../../..
                 |  |                        /defined-sets/tag-sets
                 |  |                        /tag-set/name
                 |  |  +--rw match-set-options?
                 |  |                        match-set-options-type
                 |  +--rw match-route-type
                 |     +--rw route-type*     identityref
                 +--rw actions
                    +--rw policy-result?         policy-result-type

Qu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9067

Routing Policy YANG Data Model

October 2021

                    +--rw set-metric
                    |  +--rw metric-modification?
                    |                        metric-modification-type
                    |  +--rw metric?                uint32
                    +--rw set-metric-type
                    |  +--rw metric-type?   identityref
                    +--rw set-route-level
                    |  +--rw route-level?   identityref
                    +--rw set-route-preference?        uint16
                    +--rw set-tag?               tag-type
                    +--rw set-application-tag?   tag-type

7.2.  Routing Policy Model

The following RFCs are not referenced in the document text but are referenced in the ietf-routing-
policy.yang module:

[RFC2328] [RFC3101] [RFC5130] [RFC5302] [RFC6991]

[RFC8343]

, and

,

,

,

,

.

Qu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9067

Routing Policy YANG Data Model

October 2021

<CODE BEGINS> file "ietf-routing-policy@2021-10-11.yang"

module ietf-routing-policy {
  yang-version 1.1;
  namespace "urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-routing-policy";
  prefix rt-pol;

  import ietf-inet-types {
    prefix inet;
    reference
      "RFC 6991: Common YANG Data Types";
  }
  import ietf-yang-types {
    prefix yang;
    reference
      "RFC 6991: Common YANG Data Types";
  }
  import ietf-interfaces {
    prefix if;
    reference
      "RFC 8343: A YANG Data Model for Interface
                 Management";
  }
  import ietf-routing {
    prefix rt;
    reference
      "RFC 8349: A YANG Data Model for Routing
                 Management (NMDA Version)";
  }

  organization
    "IETF RTGWG - Routing Area Working Group";
  contact
    "WG Web:   <https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/rtgwg/>
     WG List:  <mailto: rtgwg@ietf.org>

     Editors:  Yingzhen Qu
               <mailto: yingzhen.qu@futurewei.com>
               Jeff Tantsura
               <mailto: jefftant.ietf@gmail.com>
               Acee Lindem
               <mailto: acee@cisco.com>
               Xufeng Liu
               <mailto: xufeng.liu.ietf@gmail.com>";
  description
    "This module describes a YANG data model for routing policy
     configuration. It is a limited subset of all of the policy
     configuration parameters available in the variety of vendor
     implementations, but supports widely used constructs for
     managing how routes are imported, exported, modified, and
     advertised across different routing protocol instances or
     within a single routing protocol instance.  This module is
     intended to be used in conjunction with routing protocol
     configuration modules (e.g., BGP) defined in other models.

     This YANG module conforms to the Network Management
     Datastore Architecture (NMDA), as described in RFC 8342.

Qu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9067

Routing Policy YANG Data Model

October 2021

     The key words 'MUST', 'MUST NOT', 'REQUIRED', 'SHALL', 'SHALL
     NOT', 'SHOULD', 'SHOULD NOT', 'RECOMMENDED', 'NOT RECOMMENDED',
     'MAY', and 'OPTIONAL' in this document are to be interpreted as
     described in BCP 14 (RFC 2119) (RFC 8174) when, and only when,
     they appear in all capitals, as shown here.

     Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identified as
     authors of the code.  All rights reserved.

     Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or
     without modification, is permitted pursuant to, and subject to
     the license terms contained in, the Simplified BSD License set
     forth in Section 4.c of the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions
     Relating to IETF Documents
     (https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info).

     This version of this YANG module is part of RFC 9067;
     see the RFC itself for full legal notices.";

  reference
    "RFC 9067: A YANG Data Model for Routing Policy.";

  revision 2021-10-11 {
    description
      "Initial revision.";
    reference
      "RFC 9067: A YANG Data Model for Routing Policy.";
  }

  /* Identities */

  identity metric-type {
    description
      "Base identity for route metric types.";
  }

  identity ospf-type-1-metric {
    base metric-type;
    description
      "Identity for the OSPF type 1 external metric types.  It
       is only applicable to OSPF routes.";
    reference
      "RFC 2328: OSPF Version 2";
  }

  identity ospf-type-2-metric {
    base metric-type;
    description
      "Identity for the OSPF type 2 external metric types.  It
       is only applicable to OSPF routes.";
    reference
      "RFC 2328: OSPF Version 2";
  }

  identity isis-internal-metric {
    base metric-type;
    description

Qu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9067

Routing Policy YANG Data Model

October 2021

      "Identity for the IS-IS internal metric types.  It is only
       applicable to IS-IS routes.";
    reference
      "RFC 5302: Domain-Wide Prefix Distribution with
       Two-Level IS-IS";
  }

  identity isis-external-metric {
    base metric-type;
    description
      "Identity for the IS-IS external metric types.  It is only
       applicable to IS-IS routes.";
    reference
      "RFC 5302: Domain-Wide Prefix Distribution with
       Two-Level IS-IS";
  }

  identity route-level {
    description
      "Base identity for route import level.";
  }

  identity ospf-normal {
    base route-level;
    description
      "Identity for OSPF importation into normal areas.
       It is only applicable to routes imported
       into the OSPF protocol.";
    reference
      "RFC 2328: OSPF Version 2";
  }

  identity ospf-nssa-only {
    base route-level;
    description
      "Identity for the OSPF Not-So-Stubby Area (NSSA) area
       importation.  It is only applicable to routes imported
       into the OSPF protocol.";
    reference
      "RFC 3101: The OSPF Not-So-Stubby Area (NSSA) Option";
  }

  identity ospf-normal-nssa {
    base route-level;
    description
      "Identity for OSPF importation into both normal and NSSA
       areas.  It is only applicable to routes imported into
       the OSPF protocol.";
    reference
      "RFC 3101: The OSPF Not-So-Stubby Area (NSSA) Option";
  }

  identity isis-level-1 {
    base route-level;
    description
      "Identity for IS-IS Level 1 area importation.  It is only
       applicable to routes imported into the IS-IS protocol.";
    reference

Qu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9067

Routing Policy YANG Data Model

October 2021

      "RFC 5302: Domain-Wide Prefix Distribution with
       Two-Level IS-IS";
  }

  identity isis-level-2 {
    base route-level;
    description
      "Identity for IS-IS Level 2 area importation.  It is only
       applicable to routes imported into the IS-IS protocol.";
    reference
      "RFC 5302: Domain-Wide Prefix Distribution with
       Two-Level IS-IS";
  }

  identity isis-level-1-2 {
    base route-level;
    description
      "Identity for IS-IS importation into both Level 1 and Level 2
       areas.  It is only applicable to routes imported into the
       IS-IS protocol.";
    reference
      "RFC 5302: Domain-Wide Prefix Distribution with
       Two-Level IS-IS";
  }

  identity proto-route-type {
    description
      "Base identity for route type within a protocol.";
  }

  identity isis-level-1-type {
    base proto-route-type;
    description
      "Identity for IS-IS Level 1 route type.  It is only
       applicable to IS-IS routes.";
    reference
      "RFC 5302: Domain-Wide Prefix Distribution with
       Two-Level IS-IS";
  }

  identity isis-level-2-type {
    base proto-route-type;
    description
      "Identity for IS-IS Level 2 route type.  It is only
       applicable to IS-IS routes.";
    reference
      "RFC 5302: Domain-Wide Prefix Distribution with
       Two-Level IS-IS";
  }

  identity ospf-internal-type {
    base proto-route-type;
    description
      "Identity for OSPF intra-area or inter-area route type.
       It is only applicable to OSPF routes.";
    reference
      "RFC 2328: OSPF Version 2";
  }

Qu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9067

Routing Policy YANG Data Model

October 2021

  identity ospf-external-type {
    base proto-route-type;
    description
      "Identity for OSPF external type 1/2 route type.
       It is only applicable to OSPF routes.";
    reference
      "RFC 2328: OSPF Version 2";
  }

  identity ospf-external-t1-type {
    base ospf-external-type;
    description
      "Identity for OSPF external type 1 route type.
       It is only applicable to OSPF routes.";
    reference
      "RFC 2328: OSPF Version 2";
  }

  identity ospf-external-t2-type {
    base ospf-external-type;
    description
      "Identity for OSPF external type 2 route type.
       It is only applicable to OSPF routes.";
    reference
      "RFC 2328: OSPF Version 2";
  }

  identity ospf-nssa-type {
    base proto-route-type;
    description
      "Identity for OSPF NSSA type 1/2 route type.
       It is only applicable to OSPF routes.";
    reference
      "RFC 3101: The OSPF Not-So-Stubby Area (NSSA) Option";
  }

  identity ospf-nssa-t1-type {
    base ospf-nssa-type;
    description
      "Identity for OSPF NSSA type 1 route type.
       It is only applicable to OSPF routes.";
    reference
      "RFC 3101: The OSPF Not-So-Stubby Area (NSSA) Option";
  }

  identity ospf-nssa-t2-type {
    base ospf-nssa-type;
    description
      "Identity for OSPF NSSA type 2 route type.
       It is only applicable to OSPF routes.";
    reference
      "RFC 3101: The OSPF Not-So-Stubby Area (NSSA) Option";
  }

  identity bgp-internal {
    base proto-route-type;
    description

Qu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9067

Routing Policy YANG Data Model

October 2021

      "Identity for routes learned from internal BGP (IBGP).
       It is only applicable to BGP routes.";
    reference
      "RFC 4271: A Border Gateway Protocol 4 (BGP-4)";
  }

  identity bgp-external {
    base proto-route-type;
    description
      "Identity for routes learned from external BGP (EBGP).
       It is only applicable to BGP routes.";
    reference
      "RFC 4271: A Border Gateway Protocol 4 (BGP-4)";
  }

  /* Type Definitions */

  typedef default-policy-type {
    type enumeration {
      enum accept-route {
        description
          "Default policy to accept the route.";
      }
      enum reject-route {
        description
          "Default policy to reject the route.";
      }
    }
    description
      "Type used to specify route disposition in
       a policy chain.  This typedef is used in
       the default import and export policy.";
  }

  typedef policy-result-type {
    type enumeration {
      enum accept-route {
        description
          "Policy accepts the route.";
      }
      enum reject-route {
        description
          "Policy rejects the route.";
      }
    }
    description
      "Type used to specify route disposition in
       a policy chain.";
  }

  typedef tag-type {
    type union {
      type uint32;
      type yang:hex-string;
    }
    description
      "Type for expressing route tags on a local system,
       including IS-IS and OSPF; may be expressed as either decimal

Qu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9067

Routing Policy YANG Data Model

October 2021

       or hexadecimal integer.";
    reference
      "RFC 2328: OSPF Version 2
       RFC 5130: A Policy Control Mechanism in IS-IS Using
                 Administrative Tags";
  }

  typedef match-set-options-type {
    type enumeration {
      enum any {
        description
          "Match is true if given value matches any member
           of the defined set.";
      }
      enum all {
        description
          "Match is true if given value matches all
           members of the defined set.";
      }
      enum invert {
        description
          "Match is true if given value does not match any
           member of the defined set.";
      }
    }
    default "any";
    description
      "Options that govern the behavior of a match statement.  The
       default behavior is any, i.e., the given value matches any
       of the members of the defined set.";
  }

  typedef metric-modification-type {
    type enumeration {
      enum set-metric {
        description
          "Set the metric to the specified value.";
      }
      enum add-metric {
        description
          "Add the specified value to the existing metric.
           If the result overflows the maximum metric
           (0xffffffff), set the metric to the maximum.";
      }
      enum subtract-metric {
        description
          "Subtract the specified value from the existing metric.  If
           the result is less than 0, set the metric to 0.";
      }
    }
    description
      "Type used to specify how to set the metric given the
       specified value.";
  }

  /* Groupings */

  grouping prefix {

Qu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9067

Routing Policy YANG Data Model

October 2021

    description
      "Configuration data for a prefix definition.

       The combination of mask-length-lower and mask-length-upper
       define a range for the mask length or single 'exact'
       length if mask-length-lower and mask-length-upper are
       equal.

       Example: 192.0.2.0/24 through 192.0.2.0/26 would be
       expressed as prefix: 192.0.2.0/24,
                    mask-length-lower=24,
                    mask-length-upper=26

       Example: 192.0.2.0/24 (an exact match) would be
       expressed as prefix: 192.0.2.0/24,
                    mask-length-lower=24,
                    mask-length-upper=24

       Example: 2001:DB8::/32 through 2001:DB8::/64 would be
       expressed as prefix: 2001:DB8::/32,
                    mask-length-lower=32,
                    mask-length-upper=64";
    leaf ip-prefix {
      type inet:ip-prefix;
      mandatory true;
      description
        "The IP prefix represented as an IPv6 or IPv4 network
         number followed by a prefix length with an intervening
         slash character as a delimiter.  All members of the
         prefix-set MUST be of the same address family as the
         prefix-set mode.";
    }
    leaf mask-length-lower {
      type uint8 {
        range "0..128";
      }
      description
        "Mask length range lower bound.  It MUST NOT be less than
         the prefix length defined in ip-prefix.";
    }
    leaf mask-length-upper {
      type uint8 {
        range "1..128";
      }
      must '../mask-length-upper >= ../mask-length-lower' {
        error-message "The upper bound MUST NOT be less "
                    + "than lower bound.";
      }
      description
        "Mask length range upper bound.  It MUST NOT be less than
         lower bound.";
    }
  }

  grouping match-set-options-group {
    description
      "Grouping containing options relating to how a particular set
       will be matched.";

Qu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9067

Routing Policy YANG Data Model

October 2021

    leaf match-set-options {
      type match-set-options-type;
      description
        "Optional parameter that governs the behavior of the
         match operation.";
    }
  }

  grouping match-set-options-restricted-group {
    description
      "Grouping for a restricted set of match operation
       modifiers.";
    leaf match-set-options {
      type match-set-options-type {
        enum any {
          description
            "Match is true if given value matches any
             member of the defined set.";
        }
        enum invert {
          description
            "Match is true if given value does not match
             any member of the defined set.";
        }
      }
      description
        "Optional parameter that governs the behavior of the
         match operation.  This leaf only supports
         the 'any' and 'invert' match options.
         Matching on 'all' is not supported.";
    }
  }

  grouping apply-policy-group {
    description
      "Top-level container for routing policy applications.  This
       grouping is intended to be used in routing models where
       needed.";
    container apply-policy {
      description
        "Anchor point for routing policies in the model.
         Import and export policies are with respect to the local
         routing table, i.e., export (send) and import (receive),
         depending on the context.";
      leaf-list import-policy {
        type leafref {
          path "/rt-pol:routing-policy/rt-pol:policy-definitions/"
             + "rt-pol:policy-definition/rt-pol:name";
          require-instance true;
        }
        ordered-by user;
        description
          "List of policy names in sequence to be applied on
           receiving redistributed routes from another routing
           protocol or receiving a routing update in the current
           context, e.g., for the current peer group, neighbor,
           address family, etc.";
      }

Qu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9067

Routing Policy YANG Data Model

October 2021

      leaf default-import-policy {
        type default-policy-type;
        default "reject-route";
        description
          "Explicitly set a default policy if no policy definition
           in the import policy chain is satisfied.";
      }
      leaf-list export-policy {
        type leafref {
          path "/rt-pol:routing-policy/rt-pol:policy-definitions/"
             + "rt-pol:policy-definition/rt-pol:name";
          require-instance true;
        }
        ordered-by user;
        description
          "List of policy names in sequence to be applied on
           redistributing routes from one routing protocol to another
           or sending a routing update in the current context, e.g.,
           for the current peer group, neighbor, address family,
           etc.";
      }
      leaf default-export-policy {
        type default-policy-type;
        default "reject-route";
        description
          "Explicitly set a default policy if no policy definition
           in the export policy chain is satisfied.";
      }
    }
  }

  container routing-policy {
    description
      "Top-level container for all routing policy.";
    container defined-sets {
      description
        "Predefined sets of attributes used in policy match
         statements.";
      container prefix-sets {
        description
          "Data definitions for a list of IPv4 or IPv6
           prefixes that are matched as part of a policy.";
        list prefix-set {
          key "name mode";
          description
            "List of the defined prefix sets";
          leaf name {
            type string;
            description
              "Name of the prefix set; this is used as a label to
               reference the set in match conditions.";
          }
          leaf mode {
            type enumeration {
              enum ipv4 {
                description
                  "Prefix set contains IPv4 prefixes only.";
              }

Qu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9067

Routing Policy YANG Data Model

October 2021

              enum ipv6 {
                description
                  "Prefix set contains IPv6 prefixes only.";
              }
            }
            description
              "Indicates the mode of the prefix set in terms of
               which address families (IPv4 or IPv6) are present.
               The mode provides a hint; all prefixes MUST be of
               the indicated type.  The device MUST validate
               all prefixes and reject the configuration if there
               is a discrepancy.";
          }
          container prefixes {
            description
              "Container for the list of prefixes in a policy
               prefix list.  Since individual prefixes do not have
               unique actions, the order in which the prefix in
               prefix-list are matched has no impact on the outcome
               and is left to the implementation.  A given prefix-set
               condition is satisfied if the input prefix matches
               any of the prefixes in the prefix-set.";
            list prefix-list {
              key "ip-prefix mask-length-lower mask-length-upper";
              description
                "List of prefixes in the prefix set.";
              uses prefix;
            }
          }
        }
      }
      container neighbor-sets {
        description
          "Data definition for a list of IPv4 or IPv6
           neighbors that can be matched in a routing policy.";
        list neighbor-set {
          key "name";
          description
            "List of defined neighbor sets for use in policies.";
          leaf name {
            type string;
            description
              "Name of the neighbor set; this is used as a label
               to reference the set in match conditions.";
          }
          leaf-list address {
            type inet:ip-address;
            description
              "List of IP addresses in the neighbor set.";
          }
        }
      }
      container tag-sets {
        description
          "Data definitions for a list of tags that can
           be matched in policies.";
        list tag-set {
          key "name";

Qu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9067

Routing Policy YANG Data Model

October 2021

          description
            "List of tag set definitions.";
          leaf name {
            type string;
            description
              "Name of the tag set; this is used as a label to
               reference the set in match conditions.";
          }
          leaf-list tag-value {
            type tag-type;
            description
              "Value of the tag set member.";
          }
        }
      }
    }
    container policy-definitions {
      description
        "Enclosing container for the list of top-level policy
         definitions.";
      leaf match-modified-attributes {
        type boolean;
        config false;
        description
          "This boolean value dictates whether matches are performed
           on the actual route attributes or route attributes
           modified by policy statements preceding the match.";
      }
      list policy-definition {
        key "name";
        description
          "List of top-level policy definitions, keyed by unique
           name.  These policy definitions are expected to be
           referenced (by name) in policy chains specified in
           import or export configuration statements.";
        leaf name {
          type string;
          description
            "Name of the top-level policy definition; this name
             is used in references to the current policy.";
        }
        container statements {
          description
            "Enclosing container for policy statements.";
          list statement {
            key "name";
            ordered-by user;
            description
              "Policy statements group conditions and actions
               within a policy definition.  They are evaluated in
               the order specified.";
            leaf name {
              type string;
              description
                "Name of the policy statement.";
            }
            container conditions {
              description

Qu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9067

Routing Policy YANG Data Model

October 2021

                "Condition statements for the current policy
                 statement.";
              leaf call-policy {
                type leafref {
                  path "../../../../../../"
                     + "rt-pol:policy-definitions/"
                     + "rt-pol:policy-definition/rt-pol:name";
                  require-instance true;
                }
                description
                  "Applies the statements from the specified policy
                   definition and then returns control to the current
                   policy statement.  Note that the called policy
                   may itself call other policies (subject to
                   implementation limitations).  This is intended to
                   provide a policy 'subroutine' capability.  The
                   called policy SHOULD contain an explicit or a
                   default route disposition that returns an
                   effective true (accept-route) or false
                   (reject-route); otherwise, the behavior may be
                   ambiguous. The call-policy MUST NOT have been
                   previously called without returning (i.e.,
                   recursion is not allowed).";
              }
              leaf source-protocol {
                type identityref {
                  base rt:control-plane-protocol;
                }
                description
                  "Condition to check the protocol / method used to
                   install the route into the local routing table.";
              }
              container match-interface {
                leaf interface {
                  type if:interface-ref;
                  description
                    "Reference to a base interface.";
                }
                description
                  "Container for interface match conditions";
              }
              container match-prefix-set {
                leaf prefix-set {
                  type leafref {
                    path "../../../../../../../defined-sets/"
                       + "prefix-sets/prefix-set/name";
                  }
                  description
                    "References a defined prefix set.";
                }
                uses match-set-options-restricted-group;
                description
                  "Match a referenced prefix-set according to the
                   logic defined in the match-set-options leaf.";
              }
              container match-neighbor-set {
                leaf neighbor-set {
                  type leafref {

Qu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9067

Routing Policy YANG Data Model

October 2021

                    path "../../../../../../../defined-sets/"
                       + "neighbor-sets/neighbor-set/name";
                    require-instance true;
                  }
                  description
                    "References a defined neighbor set.";
                }
                description
                  "Match a referenced neighbor set.";
              }
              container match-tag-set {
                leaf tag-set {
                  type leafref {
                    path "../../../../../../../defined-sets/"
                       + "tag-sets/tag-set/name";
                    require-instance true;
                  }
                  description
                    "References a defined tag set.";
                }
                uses match-set-options-group;
                description
                  "Match a referenced tag set according to the logic
                   defined in the match-set-options leaf.";
              }
              container match-route-type {
                description
                  "This container provides route-type match
                   condition";
                leaf-list route-type {
                  type identityref {
                    base proto-route-type;
                  }
                  description
                    "Condition to check the protocol-specific type
                     of route.  This is normally used during route
                     importation to select routes or to set
                     protocol-specific attributes based on the route
                     type.";
                }
              }
            }
            container actions {
              description
                "Top-level container for policy action
                 statements.";
              leaf policy-result {
                type policy-result-type;
                description
                  "Select the final disposition for the route,
                   either accept or reject.";
              }
              container set-metric {
                leaf metric-modification {
                  type metric-modification-type;
                  description
                    "Indicates how to modify the metric.";
                }

Qu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9067

Routing Policy YANG Data Model

October 2021

                leaf metric {
                  type uint32;
                  description
                    "Metric value to set, add, or subtract.";
                }
                description
                  "Set the metric for the route.";
              }
              container set-metric-type {
                leaf metric-type {
                  type identityref {
                    base metric-type;
                  }
                  description
                    "Route metric type.";
                }
                description
                  "Set the metric type for the route.";
              }
              container set-route-level {
                leaf route-level {
                  type identityref {
                    base route-level;
                  }
                  description
                    "Route import level.";
                }
                description
                  "Set the level for importation or
                   exportation of routes.";
              }
              leaf set-route-preference {
                type uint16;
                description
                  "Set the preference for the route.  It is also
                   known as 'administrative distance' and allows for
                   selecting the preferred route among routes with
                   the same destination prefix.  A smaller value is
                   more preferred.";
              }
              leaf set-tag {
                type tag-type;
                description
                  "Set the tag for the route.";
              }
              leaf set-application-tag {
                type tag-type;
                description
                  "Set the application tag for the route.
                   The application-specific tag is an additional tag
                   that can be used by applications that require
                   semantics and/or policy different from that of the
                   tag.  For example, the tag is usually
                   automatically advertised in OSPF AS-External Link
                   State Advertisements (LSAs) while this
                   application-specific tag is not advertised
                   implicitly.";
              }

Qu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9067

Routing Policy YANG Data Model

October 2021

            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}

<CODE ENDS>

8.  Security Considerations

The YANG module speciﬁed in this document deﬁnes a schema for data that is designed to be
accessed via network management protocols such as NETCONF
[RFC8040]
implement secure transport is Secure Shell (SSH)
and the mandatory-to-implement secure transport is TLS

. The lowest NETCONF layer is the secure transport layer, and the mandatory-to-

 or RESTCONF

[RFC6242]

[RFC6241]

[RFC8446]

. The lowest RESTCONF layer is HTTPS,

.

The Network Conﬁguration Access Control Model (NACM)
restrict access for particular NETCONF or RESTCONF users to a preconﬁgured subset of all
available NETCONF or RESTCONF protocol operations and content.

 provides the means to

[RFC8341]

There are a number of data nodes deﬁned in this YANG module that are writable/creatable/
deletable (i.e., conﬁg true, which is the default). These data nodes may be considered sensitive or
vulnerable in some network environments. Write operations (e.g., edit-conﬁg) to these data
nodes without proper protection can have a negative eﬀect on network operations. These are the
subtrees and data nodes and their sensitivity/vulnerability:

/routing-policy/deﬁned-sets/preﬁx-sets

Modiﬁcation to preﬁx sets could result in a Denial-of-Service (DoS) attack. An attacker may
try to modify preﬁx sets and redirect or drop traﬃc. Redirection of traﬃc could be used as
part of a more elaborate attack to either collect sensitive information or masquerade a
service. Additionally, a control plane DoS attack could be accomplished by allowing a large
number of routes to be leaked into a routing protocol domain (e.g., BGP).

/routing-policy/deﬁned-sets/neighbor-sets

Modiﬁcation to the neighbor sets could be used to mount a DoS attack or more elaborate
attack as with preﬁx sets. For example, a DoS attack could be mounted by changing the
neighbor set from which routes are accepted.

/routing-policy/deﬁned-sets/tag-sets

Modiﬁcation to the tag sets could be used to mount a DoS attack. Routes with certain tags
might be redirected or dropped. The implications are similar to preﬁx sets and neighbor sets.
However, the attack may be more diﬃcult to detect as the routing policy usage of route tags
and intent must be understood to recognize the breach. Conversely, the implications of preﬁx
set or neighbor set modiﬁcation are easier to recognize.

Qu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 9067

Routing Policy YANG Data Model

October 2021

/routing-policy/policy-deﬁnitions/policy-deﬁnition/statements/statement/conditions

Modiﬁcation to the conditions could be used to mount a DoS attack or other attack. An
attacker may change a policy condition and redirect or drop traﬃc. As with preﬁx sets,
neighbor sets, or tag sets, traﬃc redirection could be used as part of a more elaborate attack.

/routing-policy/policy-deﬁnitions/policy-deﬁnition/statements/statement/actions

Modiﬁcation to actions could be used to mount a DoS attack or other attack. Traﬃc may be
redirected or dropped. As with preﬁx sets, neighbor sets, or tag sets, traﬃc redirection could be
used as part of a more elaborate attack. Additionally, route attributes may be changed to
mount a second-level attack that is more diﬃcult to detect.

Some of the readable data nodes in the YANG module may be considered sensitive or vulnerable
in some network environments. It is thus important to control read access (e.g., via get, get-
conﬁg, or notiﬁcation) to these data nodes. These are the subtrees and data nodes and their
sensitivity/vulnerability:

/routing-policy/deﬁned-sets/preﬁx-sets

Knowledge of these data nodes can be used to ascertain which local preﬁxes are susceptible to
a DoS attack.

/routing-policy/deﬁned-sets/neighbor-sets

Knowledge of these data nodes can be used to ascertain local neighbors against whom to
mount a DoS attack.

/routing-policy/policy-deﬁnitions/policy-deﬁnition/statements/

Knowledge of these data nodes can be used to attack the local router with a DoS attack.
Additionally, policies and their attendant conditions and actions should be considered
proprietary and disclosure could be used to ascertain partners, customers, and suppliers.
Furthermore, the policies themselves could represent intellectual property and disclosure
could diminish their corresponding business advantage.

Routing policy conﬁguration has a signiﬁcant impact on network operations, and as such, other
YANG data models that reference routing policies are also susceptible to vulnerabilities relating to
the YANG data nodes speciﬁed above.

9.  IANA Considerations

IANA has registered the following URI in the "ns" subregistry of the "IETF XML Registry"

[RFC3688]

:

urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-routing-policy

URI:
Registrant Contact:
XML:

The IESG

N/A; the requested URI is an XML namespace.

IANA has registered the following YANG module in the "YANG Module Names" subregistry
[RFC6020]

 within the "YANG Parameters" registry:

Qu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 9067

Routing Policy YANG Data Model

October 2021

ietf-routing-policy

Name:
Maintained by IANA?
Namespace:
Preﬁx:
Reference:

rt-pol

RFC 9067

N

urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-routing-policy

10.  References

10.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC2328]

[RFC3101]

[RFC3688]

[RFC4271]

[RFC5130]

[RFC5302]

[RFC6020]

[RFC6241]

[RFC6242]

[RFC6991]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
,
, March 1997,
.
rfc2119>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

,
,
Moy, J. "OSPF Version 2" STD 54 RFC 2328 DOI 10.17487/RFC2328
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2328>

,

, April 1998,

Murphy, P. "The OSPF Not-So-Stubby Area (NSSA) Option" RFC 3101 DOI 10.17487/
RFC3101

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3101>
.

, January 2003,

,

,

,

Mealling, M. "The IETF XML Registry" BCP 81 RFC 3688 DOI 10.17487/RFC3688
,
,
,
January 2004,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3688>
.

,

Rekhter, Y., Ed. Li, T., Ed.
,
RFC 4271 DOI 10.17487/RFC4271
,
rfc4271>
.

, and

S. Hares, Ed. "A Border Gateway Protocol 4 (BGP-4)"
,

,

, January 2006,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

Previdi, S. Shand, M., Ed.
Using Administrative Tags" RFC 5130 DOI 10.17487/RFC5130
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5130>

C. Martin "A Policy Control Mechanism in IS-IS
, February 2008,

, and
,

,

,

,

, and

Li, T. Smit, H.
,
,
Level IS-IS" RFC 5302 DOI 10.17487/RFC5302
.
editor.org/info/rfc5302>

,

T. Przygienda "Domain-Wide Preﬁx Distribution with Two-

, October 2008,

<https://www.rfc-

Bjorklund, M., Ed. "YANG - A Data Modeling Language for the Network
Conﬁguration Protocol (NETCONF)" RFC 6020 DOI 10.17487/RFC6020
2010,

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6020>

,

,

, October

,

Enns, R., Ed. Bjorklund, M., Ed. Schoenwaelder, J., Ed.
,
"Network Conﬁguration Protocol (NETCONF)" RFC 6241 DOI 10.17487/RFC6241
June 2011,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6241>

,
A. Bierman, Ed.

, and
,

,

,

,
Wasserman, M. "Using the NETCONF Protocol over Secure Shell (SSH)" RFC 6242
DOI 10.17487/RFC6242

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6242>

, June 2011,

,

,

Schoenwaelder, J., Ed. "Common YANG Data Types" RFC 6991 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6991

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6991>

, July 2013,

,

,

,

Qu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 9067

Routing Policy YANG Data Model

October 2021

[RFC7950]

[RFC8040]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8340]

[RFC8341]

[RFC8342]

[RFC8343]

[RFC8349]

[RFC8446]

Bjorklund, M., Ed. "The YANG 1.1 Data Modeling Language" RFC 7950 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7950>
10.17487/RFC7950
.

,
, August 2016,

,

,

Bierman, A. Bjorklund, M.
,
10.17487/RFC8040

, and
, January 2017,

K. Watsen "RESTCONF Protocol" RFC 8040 DOI
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8040>
.

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
,
rfc8174>
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

Bjorklund, M.
10.17487/RFC8340

 and

L. Berger, Ed. "YANG Tree Diagrams" BCP 215 RFC 8340 DOI

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8340>

, March 2018,

,

,

,

Bierman, A.
,
STD 91 RFC 8341 DOI 10.17487/RFC8341
.
info/rfc8341>

 and
,
M. Bjorklund "Network Conﬁguration Access Control Model"
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, March 2018,

,

,

,
R. Wilton "Network
Bjorklund, M. Schoenwaelder, J. Shafer, P. Watsen, K.
,
Management Datastore Architecture (NMDA)" RFC 8342 DOI 10.17487/RFC8342
March 2018,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8342>

, and
,

,

,

,

Bjorklund, M. "A YANG Data Model for Interface Management" RFC 8343 DOI
10.17487/RFC8343

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8343>

, March 2018,

,

,

,

,
, and
Lhotka, L. Lindem, A.
Y. Qu "A YANG Data Model for Routing Management
,
(NMDA Version)" RFC 8349 DOI 10.17487/RFC8349
.
editor.org/info/rfc8349>

, March 2018,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

,
,
Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>

, August 2018,

,

10.2.  Informative References

[IDR-BGP-MODEL]

,
Jethanandani, M. Patel, K. Hares, S.

,

Service Provider Networks" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-idr-bgp-
model-09
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-idr-bgp-
.
model-09>

, 28 June 2020,

,

, and
J. Haas "BGP YANG Model for
,

,

[W3C.REC-xml11]

Bray, T. Paoli, J. Sperberg-McQueen, M. Maler, E. Yergeau, F.

,

,

,

,

, and

J. Cowan

,

"Extensible Markup Language (XML) 1.1 (Second Edition)" W3C Consortium
Recommendation REC-xml11-20060816
.
2006/REC-xml11-20060816>

, 16 August 2006,

<https://www.w3.org/TR/

,

Appendix A.  Routing Protocol-Speciﬁc Policies

Routing models that require the ability to apply routing policy may augment the routing policy
model with protocol or other speciﬁc policy conﬁguration. The routing policy model assumes that
additional deﬁned sets, conditions, and actions may all be added by other models.

Qu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 9067

Routing Policy YANG Data Model

October 2021

The example below illustrates how another data model can augment parts of this routing policy
data model. It uses speciﬁc examples from draft-ietf-idr-bgp-model-09 to show in a concrete
manner how the diﬀerent pieces ﬁt together. This example is not normative with respect to
BGP-MODEL]
corresponding sections of the routing policy model. In the example below, the XPath preﬁx "bp:"
speciﬁes import from the ietf-bgp-policy sub-module and the XPath preﬁx "bt:" speciﬁes import
from the ietf-bgp-types sub-module

. The model similarly augments BGP-speciﬁc conditions and actions in the

[IDR-BGP-MODEL]

.

[IDR-

Qu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 9067

Routing Policy YANG Data Model

October 2021

module: ietf-routing-policy
  +--rw routing-policy
     +--rw defined-sets
     |  +--rw prefix-sets
     |  |  +--rw prefix-set* [name]
     |  |     +--rw name        string
     |  |     +--rw mode?       enumeration
     |  |     +--rw prefixes
     |  |        +--rw prefix-list* [ip-prefix mask-length-lower
     |  |                            mask-length-upper]
     |  |           +--rw ip-prefix            inet:ip-prefix
     |  |           +--rw mask-length-lower    uint8
     |  |           +--rw mask-length-upper    uint8
     |  +--rw neighbor-sets
     |  |  +--rw neighbor-set* [name]
     |  |     +--rw name       string
     |  |     +--rw address*   inet:ip-address
     |  +--rw tag-sets
     |  |  +--rw tag-set* [name]
     |  |     +--rw name         string
     |  |     +--rw tag-value*   tag-type
     |  +--rw bp:bgp-defined-sets
     |     +--rw bp:community-sets
     |     |  +--rw bp:community-set* [name]
     |     |     +--rw bp:name      string
     |     |     +--rw bp:member*   union
     |     +--rw bp:ext-community-sets
     |     |  +--rw bp:ext-community-set* [name]
     |     |     +--rw bp:name      string
     |     |     +--rw bp:member*   union
     |     +--rw bp:as-path-sets
     |        +--rw bp:as-path-set* [name]
     |           +--rw bp:name      string
     |           +--rw bp:member*   string
     +--rw policy-definitions
        +--ro match-modified-attributes?   boolean
        +--rw policy-definition* [name]
           +--rw name          string
           +--rw statements
              +--rw statement* [name]
                 +--rw name          string
                 +--rw conditions
                 |  +--rw call-policy?
                 |  +--rw source-protocol?          identityref
                 |  +--rw match-interface
                 |  |  +--rw interface?        if:interface-ref
                 |  +--rw match-prefix-set
                 |  |  +--rw prefix-set?       prefix-set/name
                 |  |  +--rw match-set-options?
                 |  |                         match-set-options-type
                 |  +--rw match-neighbor-set
                 |  |  +--rw neighbor-set?
                 |  +--rw match-tag-set
                 |  |  +--rw tag-set?
                 |  |  +--rw match-set-options?
                 |  |                         match-set-options-type
                 |  +--rw match-route-type

Qu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 33

RFC 9067

Routing Policy YANG Data Model

October 2021

                 |     +--rw route-type*     identityref
                 |  +--rw bp:bgp-conditions
                 |     +--rw bp:med-eq?       uint32
                 |     +--rw bp:origin-eq?    bt:bgp-origin-attr-type
                 |     +--rw bp:next-hop-in*  inet:ip-address-no-zone
                 |     +--rw bp:afi-safi-in*  identityref
                 |     +--rw bp:local-pref-eq?  uint32
                 |     +--rw bp:route-type?     enumeration
                 |     +--rw bp:community-count
                 |     +--rw bp:as-path-length
                 |     +--rw bp:match-community-set
                 |     |  +--rw bp:community-set?
                 |     |  +--rw bp:match-set-options?
                 |     +--rw bp:match-ext-community-set
                 |     |  +--rw bp:ext-community-set?
                 |     |  +--rw bp:match-set-options?
                 |     +--rw bp:match-as-path-set
                 |        +--rw bp:as-path-set?
                 |        +--rw bp:match-set-options?
                 +--rw actions
                    +--rw policy-result?         policy-result-type
                    +--rw set-metric
                    |  +--rw metric-modification?
                    |  +--rw metric?                uint32
                    +--rw set-metric-type
                    |  +--rw metric-type?   identityref
                    +--rw set-route-level
                    |  +--rw route-level?   identityref
                    +--rw set-route-preference?        uint16
                    +--rw set-tag?               tag-type
                    +--rw set-application-tag?   tag-type
                    +--rw bp:bgp-actions
                       +--rw bp:set-route-origin?
                       |                    bt:bgp-origin-attr-type
                       +--rw bp:set-local-pref?   uint32
                       +--rw bp:set-next-hop?     bgp-next-hop-type
                       +--rw bp:set-med?          bgp-set-med-type
                       +--rw bp:set-as-path-prepend
                       |  +--rw bp:repeat-n?   uint8
                       +--rw bp:set-community
                       |  +--rw bp:method?      enumeration
                       |  +--rw bp:options?
                       |  +--rw bp:inline
                       |  |  +--rw bp:communities*   union
                       |  +--rw bp:reference
                       |     +--rw bp:community-set-ref?
                       +--rw bp:set-ext-community
                          +--rw bp:method?      enumeration
                          +--rw bp:options?
                          +--rw bp:inline
                          |  +--rw bp:communities*   union
                          +--rw bp:reference
                             +--rw bp:ext-community-set-ref?

Qu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 34

RFC 9067

Routing Policy YANG Data Model

October 2021

Appendix B.  Policy Examples

Below, we show examples of XML-encoded conﬁguration data using the routing policy and BGP
models to illustrate both how policies are deﬁned and how they can be applied. Note that the XML
[W3C.REC-xml11]

 has been simpliﬁed for readability.

The following example shows how preﬁx set and tag set can be deﬁned. The policy condition is to
match a preﬁx set and a tag set, and the action is to accept routes that match the condition.

Qu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 35

RFC 9067

Routing Policy YANG Data Model

October 2021

  <config xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0">
    <routing-policy
     xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-routing-policy">

        <defined-sets>
          <prefix-sets>
            <prefix-set>
              <name>prefix-set-A</name>
              <mode>ipv4</mode>
              <prefixes>
                <prefix-list>
                  <ip-prefix>192.0.2.0/24</ip-prefix>
                  <mask-length-lower>24</mask-length-lower>
                  <mask-length-upper>32</mask-length-upper>
                </prefix-list>
                <prefix-list>
                  <ip-prefix>198.51.100.0/24</ip-prefix>
                  <mask-length-lower>24</mask-length-lower>
                  <mask-length-upper>32</mask-length-upper>
                </prefix-list>
              </prefixes>
            </prefix-set>
            <prefix-set>
              <name>prefix-set-B</name>
              <mode>ipv6</mode>
                <prefixes>
                <prefix-list>
                  <ip-prefix>2001:DB8::/32</ip-prefix>
                  <mask-length-lower>32</mask-length-lower>
                  <mask-length-upper>64</mask-length-upper>
                </prefix-list>
              </prefixes>
            </prefix-set>
           </prefix-sets>
           <tag-sets>
            <tag-set>
             <name>cust-tag1</name>
             <tag-value>10</tag-value>
           </tag-set>
         </tag-sets>
       </defined-sets>

       <policy-definitions>
        <policy-definition>
          <name>export-tagged-BGP</name>
          <statements>
            <statement>
              <name>term-0</name>
              <conditions>
                <match-prefix-set>
                  <prefix-set>prefix-set-A</prefix-set>
                </match-prefix-set>
                <match-tag-set>
                  <tag-set>cust-tag1</tag-set>
                </match-tag-set>
              </conditions>
              <actions>

Qu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 36

RFC 9067

Routing Policy YANG Data Model

October 2021

                <policy-result>accept-route</policy-result>
              </actions>
            </statement>
          </statements>
        </policy-definition>
      </policy-definitions>

      </routing-policy>
</config>

In the following example, all routes in the RIB that have been learned from OSPF advertisements
corresponding to OSPF intra-area and inter-area route types should get advertised into IS-IS level
2 advertisements.

<config xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0">
  <routing-policy
   xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-routing-policy">
   <policy-definitions>
    <policy-definition>
     <name>export-all-OSPF-prefixes-into-IS-IS-level-2</name>
      <statements>
       <statement>
         <name>term-0</name>
         <conditions>
           <match-route-type>
             <route-type>ospf-internal-type</route-type>
           </match-route-type>
         </conditions>
         <actions>
           <set-route-level>
             <route-level>isis-level-2</route-level>
           </set-route-level>
           <policy-result>accept-route</policy-result>
         </actions>
       </statement>
      </statements>
    </policy-definition>
   </policy-definitions>
  </routing-policy>
</config>

Acknowledgements

The routing policy module deﬁned in this document is based on the OpenConﬁg route policy
model. The authors would like to thank OpenConﬁg for their contributions, especially those of
Anees Shaikh Rob Shakir Kevin D'Souza

.
Chris Chase

, and

,

,

The authors are grateful for valuable contributions to this document and the associated models
from
Osborne Steve Padgett Juergen Schoenwaelder Jim Uttaro Russ White

Ebben Aires Luyuan Fang Josh George Stephane Litkowski Ina Minei Carl Moberg Eric

,
,
.
, and
John Heasley

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Qu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 37

RFC 9067

Routing Policy YANG Data Model

October 2021

Thanks to
Lambrechts

 for their reviews and comments.

Mahesh Jethanandani John Scudder Alvaro Retana Chris Bowers Tom Petch

,

,

,

,

, and

Kris

Authors' Addresses

Yingzhen Qu
Futurewei
2330 Central Expressway
Santa Clara CA 95050
,
United States of America
Email:

 yingzhen.qu@futurewei.com

Jeﬀ Tantsura
Microsoft
Email:

 jeﬀtant.ietf@gmail.com

Acee Lindem
Cisco
301 Midenhall Way
Cary NC 27513
United States of America
 acee@cisco.com
Email:

,

Xufeng Liu
Volta Networks
Email:

 xufeng.liu.ietf@gmail.com

Qu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 38

