Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9520
2308, 4035, 4697
Standards Track
December 2023
2070-1721
D. Wessels
Verisign

M. Thomas
Verisign

W. Carroll
Verisign

RFC 9520
Negative Caching of DNS Resolution Failures

Abstract

In the DNS, resolvers employ caching to reduce both latency for end users and load on
authoritative name servers. The process of resolution may result in one of three types of
responses: (1) a response containing the requested data, (2) a response indicating the requested
data does not exist, or (3) a non-response due to a resolution failure in which the resolver does
not receive any useful information regarding the data's existence. This document concerns itself
only with the third type.

RFC 2308 specifies requirements for DNS negative caching. There, caching of TYPE 2 responses is
mandatory and caching of TYPE 3 responses is optional. This document updates RFC 2308 to
require negative caching for DNS resolution failures.

RFC 4035 allows DNSSEC validation failure caching. This document updates RFC 4035 to require
caching for DNSSEC validation failures.

RFC 4697 prohibits aggressive requerying for NS records at a failed zone's parent zone. This
document updates RFC 4697 to expand this requirement to all query types and to all ancestor
zones.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9520
.

Wessels, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9520

Caching Resolution Failures

December 2023

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in effect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Motivation

1.2.  Related Work

1.3.  Terminology

2.  Conditions That Lead to DNS Resolution Failures

2.1.  SERVFAIL Responses

2.2.  REFUSED Responses

2.3.  Timeouts and Unreachable Servers

2.4.  Delegation Loops

2.5.  Alias Loops

2.6.  DNSSEC Validation Failures

2.7.  FORMERR Responses

3.  Requirements for Caching DNS Resolution Failures

3.1.  Retries and Timeouts

3.2.  Caching

3.3.  Requerying Delegation Information

3.4.  DNSSEC Validation Failures

4.  IANA Considerations

5.  Security Considerations

6.  Privacy Considerations

3

3

4

5

6

6

7

7

7

8

8

8

9

9

9

10

10

11

11

11

Wessels, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9520

Caching Resolution Failures

December 2023

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

11

11

12

14

14

Caching has always been a fundamental component of DNS resolution on the Internet. For
example,

[RFC0882]

 states:

The sheer size of the database and frequency of updates suggest that it must be
maintained in a distributed manner, with local caching to improve performance.

[RFC0882] [RFC0883] [RFC1034]

The early DNS RFCs (
in the context of what
the requested data. In this case, a TTL is associated with each Resource Record (RR) in the
response. Resolvers can cache and reuse the data until the TTL expires.

[RFC1035]
 calls "positive responses", that is, when the response includes

,
[RFC2308]

) primarily discuss caching

, and

,

Section 4.3.4 of [RFC1034]
talks about name errors (NXDOMAIN). This is the origin of using the SOA MINIMUM field as a
negative caching TTL.

 describes negative response caching, but notes it is optional and only

 updated

[RFC1034]

 to specify new requirements for DNS negative caching, including

[RFC2308]
making it mandatory for caching resolvers to cache name error (NXDOMAIN) and no data
(NODATA) responses when an SOA record is available to provide a TTL.
 further
specified optional negative caching for two DNS resolution failure cases: server failure and dead/
unreachable servers.

[RFC2308]

[RFC2308]

This document updates
provides additional examples of resolution failures,
validation failures, as well as
for NS records at a failed zone's parent zone to all query types and to all ancestor zones.

 to require negative caching of all DNS resolution failures and

 to expand the scope of prohibiting aggressive requerying

 to require caching for DNSSEC

[RFC4697]

[RFC4035]

1.1.  Motivation

Operators of DNS services have known for some time that recursive resolvers become more
aggressive when they experience resolution failures. A number of different anecdotes,
experiments, and incidents support this claim.

Wessels, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9520

Caching Resolution Failures

December 2023

In December 2009, a secondary server for a number of in-addr.arpa subdomains saw its traffic
suddenly double, and queries of type DNSKEY in particular increase by approximately two
orders of magnitude, coinciding with a DNSSEC key rollover by the zone operator
[DNSSEC-
ROLLOVER]
non-root trust anchors to the recursive resolver, which became out of date following the rollover.
Unable to validate responses for the affected in-addr.arpa zones, recursive resolvers aggressively
retried their queries.

. This predated a signed root zone, and an operating system vendor was providing

In 2016, the Internet infrastructure company Dyn experienced a large attack that impacted many
high-profile customers. As documented in a technical presentation detailing the attack (see
[RETRY-STORM]

), Dyn staff wrote:

At this point we are now experiencing botnet attack traffic and what is best classified as
a "retry storm"

Looking at certain large recursive platforms > 10x normal volume

In 2018, the root zone Key Signing Key (KSK) was rolled over
rollover period, the root servers experienced a significant increase in DNSKEY queries. Before
the rollover, a.root-servers.net and j.root-servers.net together received about 15 million DNSKEY
queries per day. At the end of the revocation period, they received 1.2 billion per day: an 80x
increase. Removal of the revoked key from the zone caused DNSKEY queries to drop to post-
rollover but pre-revoke levels, indicating there is still a population of recursive resolvers using
the previous root trust anchor and aggressively retrying DNSKEY queries.

[KSK-ROLLOVER]

. Throughout the

In 2021, Verisign researchers used botnet query traffic to demonstrate that certain large public
recursive DNS services exhibit very high query rates when all authoritative name servers for a
zone return refused (REFUSED) or server failure (SERVFAIL) responses (see
). When the
authoritative servers were configured normally, query rates for a single botnet domain averaged
approximately 50 queries per second. However, with the servers configured to return SERVFAIL,
the query rate increased to 60,000 per second. Furthermore, increases were also observed at the
root and Top-Level Domain (TLD) levels, even though delegations at those levels were unchanged
and continued operating normally.

[BOTNET]

[FB-OUTAGE]

Later that same year, on October 4, Facebook experienced a widespread and well-publicized
outage
were reachable and did not respond to queries. Recursive name servers attempting to resolve
Facebook domains experienced timeouts. During this time, query traffic on the .COM/.NET
infrastructure increased from 7,000 to 900,000 queries per second

. During the 6-hour outage, none of Facebook's authoritative name servers

[OUTAGE-RESOLVER]
.

1.2.  Related Work

 describes negative caching for four types of DNS queries and responses: name errors,

[RFC2308]
no data, server failures, and dead/unreachable servers. It places the strongest requirements on
negative caching for name errors and no data responses, while server failures and dead servers
are left as optional.

Wessels, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9520

Caching Resolution Failures

December 2023

 is a Best Current Practice that documents observed resolution misbehaviors. It

[RFC4697]
describes a number of situations that can lead to excessive queries from recursive resolvers,
including requerying for delegation data, lame servers, responses blocked by firewalls, and
records with zero TTL.
to "

 makes a number of recommendations, varying from "

[RFC4697]

MUST

".

"
SHOULD

[THUNDERING-HERD]
 describes "The DNS thundering herd problem" as a situation arising when
cached data expires at the same time for a large number of users. Although that document is not
focused on negative caching, it does describe the benefits of combining multiple identical queries
to upstream name servers. That is, when a recursive resolver receives multiple queries for the
same name, class, and type that cannot be answered from cached data, it should combine or join
them into a single upstream query rather than emit repeated identical upstream queries.

, "Measures for Making DNS More Resilient against Forged Answers", includes a section

[RFC5452]
that describes the phenomenon known as "Birthday Attacks". Here, again, the problem arises
when a recursive resolver emits multiple identical upstream queries. Multiple outstanding
queries make it easier for an attacker to guess and correctly match some of the DNS message
parameters, such as the port number and ID field. This situation is further exacerbated in the
case of timeout-based resolution failures. Of course, DNSSEC is a suitable defense to spoofing
attacks.

 describes "Serving Stale Data to Improve DNS Resiliency". This permits a recursive

[RFC8767]
resolver to return possibly stale data when it is unable to refresh cached, expired data. It
introduces the idea of a failure recheck timer and says:

Attempts to refresh from non-responsive or otherwise failing authoritative nameservers
are recommended to be done no more frequently than every 30 seconds.

1.3.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

DNS transport:

In this document, "DNS transport" means a protocol used to transport DNS

[RFC1034] [RFC7766]

messages between a client and a server. This includes "classic DNS" transports, i.e., DNS-over-
UDP and DNS-over-TCP
, as well as newer encrypted DNS transports, such
as DNS-over-TLS
similar communication of DNS messages using other protocols. Note: at the time of writing,
not all DNS transports are standardized for all types of servers but may become standardized
in the future.

, DNS-over-HTTPS

, DNS-over-QUIC

[RFC7858]

[RFC8484]

[RFC9250]

, and

Wessels, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9520

Caching Resolution Failures

December 2023

2.  Conditions That Lead to DNS Resolution Failures

A DNS resolution failure occurs when none of the servers available to a resolver client provide
any useful response data for a particular query name, type, and class. A response is considered
useful when it provides either the requested data, a referral to a descendant zone, or an
indication that no data exists at the given name.

It is common for resolvers to have multiple servers from which to choose for a particular query.
For example, in the case of stub-to-recursive, the stub resolver may be configured with multiple
recursive resolver addresses. In the case of recursive-to-authoritative, a given zone usually has
more than one name server (NS record), each of which can have multiple IP addresses and
multiple DNS transports.

Nothing in this document prevents a resolver from retrying a query at a different server or the
same server over a different DNS transport. In the case of timeouts, a resolver can retry the same
server and DNS transport a limited number of times.

If any one of the available servers provides a useful response, then it is not considered a
resolution failure. However, if none of the servers for a given query tuple <name, type, class>
provide a useful response, the result is a resolution failure.

Note that NXDOMAIN and NOERROR/NODATA responses are not conditions for resolution failure.
In these cases, the server is providing a useful response, indicating either that a name does not
exist or that no data of the requested type exists at the name. These negative responses can be
cached as described in

[RFC2308]
.

The remainder of this section describes a number of different conditions that can lead to
resolution failure. This section is not exhaustive. Additional conditions may be expected to cause
similar resolution failures.

2.1.  SERVFAIL Responses

Server failure is defined in
to a problem with the name server." A server failure is signaled by setting the RCODE field to
SERVFAIL.

 as: "The name server was unable to process this query due

[RFC1035]

Authoritative servers return SERVFAIL when they don't have any valid data for a zone. For
example, a secondary server has been configured to serve a particular zone but is unable to
retrieve or refresh the zone data from the primary server.

Recursive servers return SERVFAIL in response to a number of different conditions, including
many described below.

Although the extended DNS errors method exists "primarily to extend SERVFAIL to provide
[RFC8914]
additional information," it "does not change the processing of RCODEs"
operates at the level of resolution failure and does not concern particular causes.

. This document

Wessels, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9520

Caching Resolution Failures

December 2023

2.2.  REFUSED Responses

A name server returns a message with the RCODE field set to REFUSED when it refuses to process
the query, e.g., for policy or other reasons

[RFC1035]
.

Authoritative servers generally return REFUSED when processing a query for which they are not
authoritative. For example, a server that is configured to be authoritative for only the
example.net zone may return REFUSED in response to a query for example.com.

Recursive servers generally return REFUSED for query sources that do not match configured
access control lists. For example, a server that is configured to allow queries from only
2001:db8:1::/48 may return REFUSED in response to a query from 2001:db8:5::1.

2.3.  Timeouts and Unreachable Servers

A timeout occurs when a resolver fails to receive any response from a server within a reasonable
amount of time. Additionally, a DNS transport may more quickly indicate lack of reachability in a
way that wouldn't be considered a timeout: for example, an ICMP port unreachable message, a
TCP "connection refused" error, or a TLS handshake failure.
collectively as "dead / unreachable servers".

 refers to these conditions

[RFC2308]

Note that resolver implementations may have two types of timeouts: a smaller timeout that
might trigger a query retry and a larger timeout after which the server is considered
unresponsive. Section 3.1 discusses the requirements for resolvers when retrying queries.

Timeouts can present a particular problem for negative caching, depending on how the resolver
handles multiple outstanding queries for the same <query name, type, class> tuple. For example,
consider a very popular website in a zone whose name servers are all unresponsive. A recursive
resolver might receive tens or hundreds of queries per second for that website. If the recursive
server implementation joins these outstanding queries together, then it only sends one recursive-
to-authoritative query for the numerous pending stub-to-recursive queries. However, if the
implementation does not join outstanding queries together, then it sends one recursive-to-
authoritative query for each stub-to-recursive query. If the incoming query rate is high and the
timeout is large, this might result in hundreds or thousands of recursive-to-authoritative queries
while waiting for an authoritative server to time out.

A recursive resolver that does not join outstanding queries together is more susceptible to
Birthday Attacks (

), especially when those queries result in timeouts.

[RFC5452], Section 5

2.4.  Delegation Loops

A delegation loop, or cycle, can occur when one domain utilizes name servers in a second
domain, and the second domain uses name servers in the first. For example:

Wessels, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9520

Caching Resolution Failures

December 2023

FOO.EXAMPLE.    NS      NS1.EXAMPLE.COM.
FOO.EXAMPLE.    NS      NS2.EXAMPLE.COM.

EXAMPLE.COM.    NS      NS1.FOO.EXAMPLE.
EXAMPLE.COM.    NS      NS2.FOO.EXAMPLE.

In this example, no names under foo.example or example.com can be resolved because of the
delegation loop. Note that a delegation loop may involve more than two domains. A resolver that
does not detect delegation loops may generate DDoS-levels of attack traffic to authoritative name
servers, as documented in the TsuNAME vulnerability

[TsuNAME]
.

2.5.  Alias Loops

An alias loop, or cycle, can occur when one CNAME or DNAME RR refers to a second name,
which, in turn, is specified as an alias for the first. For example:

APP.FOO.EXAMPLE.        CNAME   APP.EXAMPLE.NET.
APP.EXAMPLE.NET.        CNAME   APP.FOO.EXAMPLE.

The need to detect CNAME loops has been known since at least
3.6.2:

[RFC1034]

, which states in Section

Of course, by the robustness principle, domain software should not fail when presented
with CNAME chains or loops; CNAME chains should be followed and CNAME loops
signalled as an error.

2.6.  DNSSEC Validation Failures

For zones that are signed with DNSSEC, a resolution failure can occur when a security-aware
resolver believes it should be able to establish a chain of trust for an RRset but is unable to do so,
possibly after trying multiple authoritative name servers. DNSSEC validation failures may be due
to signature mismatch, missing DNSKEY RRs, problems with denial-of-existence records, clock
skew, or other reasons.

Section 4.7 of [RFC4035]
failures. Section 3.4 of this document strengthens those requirements.

 already discusses the requirements and reasons for caching validation

2.7.  FORMERR Responses

A name server returns a message with the RCODE field set to FORMERR when it is unable to
interpret the query
processing Extension Mechanisms for DNS (EDNS(0))
. Authoritative servers may
return FORMERR when they do not implement EDNS(0), or when EDNS(0) option fields are
malformed, but not for unknown EDNS(0) options.

. FORMERR responses are often associated with problems
[RFC6891]

[RFC1035]

Wessels, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9520

Caching Resolution Failures

December 2023

Upon receipt of a FORMERR response, some recursive clients will retry their queries without
EDNS(0), while others will not. Nonetheless, resolution failures from FORMERR responses are
rare.

3.  Requirements for Caching DNS Resolution Failures

3.1.  Retries and Timeouts

MUST NOT

A resolver
than twice (i.e., three queries in total) before considering the server address unresponsive over
that DNS transport for that query.

 retry a given query to a server address over a given DNS transport more

MAY

 retry a given query over a different DNS transport to the same server if it has

A resolver
reason to believe the DNS transport is available for that server and is compatible with the
resolver's security policies.

This document does not place any requirements on how long an implementation should wait
before retrying a query (aka a timeout value), which may be implementation or configuration
dependent. It is generally expected that typical timeout values range from 3 to 30 seconds.

3.2.  Caching

MUST

 implement a cache for resolution failures. The purpose of this cache is to

Resolvers
eliminate repeated upstream queries that cannot be resolved. When an incoming query matches
a cached resolution failure, the resolver
until after the cache entries expire.

 send any corresponding outgoing queries

MUST NOT

Implementation details for such a cache are not specified in this document. The implementation
might cache different resolution failure conditions differently. For example, DNSSEC validation
failures might be cached according to the queried name, class, and type, whereas unresponsive
servers might be cached only according to the server's IP address. Developers should document
their implementation choices so that operators know what behaviors to expect when resolution
failures are cached.

MUST

 cache resolution failures for at least 1 second. Resolvers

Resolvers
types of resolution failures for different (i.e., longer) amounts of time. Consistent with
resolution failures

 be cached for longer than 5 minutes.

MUST NOT

MAY

 cache different

[RFC2308]
,

The minimum cache duration
for resolution failures will reduce the processing burden from repeated queries but may also
increase the time to recover from transitory issues.

 be configurable by the operator. A longer cache duration

SHOULD

SHOULD

 employ an exponential or linear backoff algorithm to increase the cache

Resolvers
duration for persistent resolution failures. For example, the initial time for negatively caching a
resolution failure might be set to 5 seconds and increased after each retry that results in another
resolution failure, up to a configurable maximum, not to exceed the 5-minute upper limit.

Wessels, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9520

Caching Resolution Failures

December 2023

Notwithstanding the above, resolvers
exhaustion attacks on the failed resolution cache. That is, the resolver should limit the amount of
memory and/or processing time devoted to this cache.

 implement measures to mitigate resource

SHOULD

3.3.  Requerying Delegation Information

Section 2.1 of [RFC4697]

 identifies circumstances in which:

...every name server in a zone's NS RRSet is unreachable (e.g., during a network outage),
unavailable (e.g., the name server process is not running on the server host), or
misconfigured (e.g., the name server is not authoritative for the given zone, also known
as "lame").

It prohibits unnecessary "aggressive requerying" to the parent of a non-responsive zone by
sending NS queries.

The problem of aggressive requerying to parent zones is not limited to queries of type NS. This
document updates the requirement from

Section 2.1.1 of [RFC4697]

 to apply more generally:

Upon encountering a zone whose name servers are all non-responsive, a resolver
cache the resolution failure. Furthermore, the resolver
responsive zone's parent zone (and to other ancestor zones) just as it would limit
subsequent queries to the non-responsive zone.

 limit queries to the non-

MUST

MUST

3.4.  DNSSEC Validation Failures

Section 4.7 of [RFC4035]

 states:

To prevent such unnecessary DNS traffic, security-aware resolvers
invalid signatures, with some restrictions.

MAY

 cache data with

This document updates

[RFC4035]

 with the following, stronger, requirement:

To prevent such unnecessary DNS traffic, security-aware resolvers
validation failures, with some restrictions.

MUST

 cache DNSSEC

 is to use a small TTL when caching data that fails
One of the restrictions mentioned in
DNSSEC validation. This is, in part, because the provided TTL cannot be trusted. The advice from
Section 3.2 herein can be used as guidance on TTLs for caching DNSSEC validation failures.

[RFC4035]

Wessels, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9520

Caching Resolution Failures

December 2023

4.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

5.  Security Considerations

As noted in Section 3.2, an attacker might attempt a resource exhaustion attack by sending
queries for a large number of names and/or types that result in resolution failure. Resolvers
SHOULD
to caching resolution failures.

 implement measures to protect themselves and bound the amount of memory devoted

Section 2.2 of [RFC7873]

A cache poisoning attack (see
possible because failure messages cannot be signed. An attacker might generate queries and send
forged failure messages, causing the resolver to cease sending queries to the authoritative name
server (see
[TuDoor]
the backoff period and repeated attacks due to the 5-minute cache limit. As in
[RFC4686]

 for a "DNSDoS attack"). However, this would require continued spoofing throughout
Section 4.1.12 of

, this attack's effects would be "localized and of limited duration".

 for a similar "data corruption attack" and Section 5.2 of

) resulting in denial of service may be

Section 2.6 of [RFC4732]

6.  Privacy Considerations

This specification has no impact on user privacy.

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[RFC1034]

[RFC1035]

[RFC2119]

[RFC2308]

[RFC4035]

Mockapetris, P. "Domain names - concepts and facilities" STD 13 RFC 1034 DOI
10.17487/RFC1034

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1034>

, November 1987,

,

,

,

.

Mockapetris, P. "Domain names - implementation and specification" STD 13
,
RFC 1035 DOI 10.17487/RFC1035
info/rfc1035>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, November 1987,

,

,

.

,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Andrews, M. "Negative Caching of DNS Queries (DNS NCACHE)" RFC 2308 DOI
10.17487/RFC2308

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2308>

, March 1998,

,
.

,

,

,

Arends, R. Austein, R. Larson, M. Massey, D.
,
Modifications for the DNS Security Extensions" RFC 4035 DOI 10.17487/
RFC4035

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4035>

S. Rose "Protocol

, March 2005,

, and
,

,
,

,

.

Wessels, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9520

Caching Resolution Failures

December 2023

[RFC4697]

[RFC8174]

Larson, M.
 and
4697 DOI 10.17487/RFC4697
,
rfc4697>

.

P. Barber "Observed DNS Resolution Misbehavior" BCP 123 RFC

,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

, October 2006,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

7.2.  Informative References

[BOTNET]

Wessels, D.
 and
DNS Hierarchy"
841/>

.

,
M. Thomas "Botnet Traffic Observed at Various Levels of the
<https://indico.dns-oarc.net/event/38/contributions/
, May 2021,

[DNSSEC-ROLLOVER]
Die?"

Michaleson, G. Wallström, P. Arends, R.

,
<https://www.potaroo.net/ispcol/2010-02/rollover.html>

G. Huston "Roll Over and
.

, February 2010,

, and

,

,

[FB-OUTAGE]

Janardhan, S. "More details about the October 4 outage"
engineering.fb.com/2021/10/05/networking-traffic/outage-details/>

, October 2021,

,

.

<https://

[KSK-ROLLOVER]

,

,

Müller, M. Thomas, M. Wessels, D. Hardaker, W. Chung, T. Toorop, W.
, and
,
R. van Rijswijk-Deij "Roll, Roll, Roll Your Root: A Comprehensive Analysis of the
First Ever DNSSEC Root KSK Rollover" IMC '19: Proceedings of the Internet
,
Measurement Conference, Pages 1-14 DOI 10.1145/3355369.3355570
,
2019,

<https://doi.org/10.1145/3355369.3355570>

, October

,

,

,

.

[OUTAGE-RESOLVER]

Verisign "Observations on Resolver Behavior During DNS Outages"

,

,

January 2022,

<https://blog.verisign.com/security/facebook-dns-outage/>

.

[RETRY-STORM]

Sullivan, A. "Dyn, DDoS, and DNS"

,

, March 2017,

<https://ccnso.icann.org/sites/

[RFC0882]

[RFC0883]

[RFC4686]

[RFC4732]

[RFC5452]

default/files/file/field-file-attach/2017-04/presentation-oracle-dyn-ddos-
dns-13mar17-en.pdf>

.

Mockapetris, P. "Domain names: Concepts and facilities" RFC 882 DOI 10.17487/
RFC0882

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc882>
.

, November 1983,

,

,

Mockapetris, P. "Domain names: Implementation specification" RFC 883 DOI
10.17487/RFC0883
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc883>

, November 1983,

,

,

,

Fenton, J. "Analysis of Threats Motivating DomainKeys Identified Mail (DKIM)"
RFC 4686 DOI 10.17487/RFC4686
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/
info/rfc4686>

, September 2006,

,
,

.

,

Handley, M., Ed. Rescorla, E., Ed.
,
Considerations" RFC 4732 DOI 10.17487/RFC4732
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4732>

, and

,

,

.

IAB "Internet Denial-of-Service

, December 2006,

<https://

R. van Mook "Measures for Making DNS More Resilient against

 and

Hubert, A.
Forged Answers" RFC 5452 DOI 10.17487/RFC5452
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5452>

,
,

.

, January 2009,

<https://

Wessels, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9520

Caching Resolution Failures

December 2023

[RFC6891]

[RFC7766]

[RFC7858]

[RFC7873]

[RFC8484]

[RFC8767]

[RFC8914]

[RFC9250]

Damas, J. Graff, M.
,
STD 75 RFC 6891 DOI 10.17487/RFC6891
,
editor.org/info/rfc6891>

, and

,

.

P. Vixie "Extension Mechanisms for DNS (EDNS(0))"

,

,

, April 2013,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Dickinson, J. Dickinson, S. Bellis, R. Mankin, A.
over TCP - Implementation Requirements" RFC 7766 DOI 10.17487/RFC7766
March 2016,

D. Wessels "DNS Transport
, and
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7766>

,

,

,

,

.

,

,

,

Hu, Z. Zhu, L. Heidemann, J. Mankin, A. Wessels, D.
"Specification for DNS over Transport Layer Security (TLS)" RFC 7858 DOI
10.17487/RFC7858

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7858>

, May 2016,

P. Hoffman

, and

,

,

,

.

 and

Eastlake 3rd, D.
7873 DOI 10.17487/RFC7873
,
rfc7873>

.

M. Andrews "Domain Name System (DNS) Cookies" RFC

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2016,

,

Hoffman, P.
10.17487/RFC8484

 and

P. McManus "DNS Queries over HTTPS (DoH)" RFC 8484 DOI

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8484>

, October 2018,

,

,

.

Lawrence, D. Kumari, W.
,
Resiliency" RFC 8767 DOI 10.17487/RFC8767
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc8767>

, and

,

.

P. Sood "Serving Stale Data to Improve DNS
, March 2020,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Kumari, W. Hunt, E. Arends, R. Hardaker, W.
,
Errors" RFC 8914 DOI 10.17487/RFC8914
editor.org/info/rfc8914>

,

,

,

.

, and
, October 2020,

,
D. Lawrence "Extended DNS
<https://www.rfc-

Huitema, C. Dickinson, S.
,
Connections" RFC 9250 DOI 10.17487/RFC9250
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc9250>
.

, and

,

A. Mankin "DNS over Dedicated QUIC

, May 2022,

<https://www.rfc-

[THUNDERING-HERD]

 and

Sivaraman, M.
,

,
Progress Internet-Draft, draft-muks-dnsop-dns-thundering-herd-00
2020,
herd-00>

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-muks-dnsop-dns-thundering-

C. Liu "The DNS thundering herd problem" Work in

,
, 25 June

.

[TsuNAME]

[TuDoor]

,

,

Moura, G. C. M. Castro, S. Heidemann, J.
exploiting misconfiguration and vulnerability to DDoS DNS" IMC '21:
Proceedings of the 21st ACM Internet Measurement Conference, Pages 398-418
DOI 10.1145/3487552.3487824
, November 2021,
10.1145/3487552.3487824>

W. Hardaker "TsuNAME:
,

<https://doi.org/

, and

,

.

,

,

,

,

,

,
, and

Q. Li "TuDoor Attack: Systematically Exploring and

Li, X. Xu, W. Liu, B. Zhang, M. Li, Z. Zhang, J. Chang, D. Zheng, X. Wang, C.
Chen, J. Duan, H.
,
Exploiting Logic Vulnerabilities in DNS Response Pre-processing with
Malformed Packets" IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP) DOI 10.1109/
SP54263.2024.00046
SP54263.2024.00046>

<https://doi.ieeecomputersociety.org/10.1109/

,
, 2024,

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

Wessels, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9520

Caching Resolution Failures

December 2023

Acknowledgments

Mukund Sivaraman Petr Spacek Peter van Dijk Tim Wicinksi Joe
,
The authors wish to thank
Abley Evan Hunt Barry Leiba Lucas Pardue Paul Wouters
, and other members of the DNSOP
Working Group for their feedback and contributions.

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Authors' Addresses

,

Duane Wessels
Verisign
12061 Bluemont Way
Reston VA 20190
United States of America
Phone:
 +1 703 948-3200
Email:
 dwessels@verisign.com
URI:

 https://verisign.com

,

William Carroll
Verisign
12061 Bluemont Way
Reston VA 20190
United States of America
Phone:
 +1 703 948-3200
Email:
 wicarroll@verisign.com
URI:

 https://verisign.com

,

Matthew Thomas
Verisign
12061 Bluemont Way
Reston VA 20190
United States of America
Phone:
 +1 703 948-3200
Email:
 mthomas@verisign.com
URI:

 https://verisign.com

Wessels, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

