Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9207
Standards Track
March 2022
2070-1721
K. Meyer zu Selhausen
Hackmanit

D. Fett
yes.com

RFC 9207
OAuth 2.0 Authorization Server Issuer Identiﬁcation

Abstract

This document speciﬁes a new parameter called iss. This parameter is used to explicitly include
the issuer identiﬁer of the authorization server in the authorization response of an OAuth
authorization ﬂow. The iss parameter serves as an eﬀective countermeasure to "mix-up
attacks".

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9207
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

Meyer zu Selhausen & Fett

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9207

OAuth 2.0 Auth Server ID

March 2022

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Conventions and Terminology

2.  Response Parameter iss

2.1.  Example Authorization Response

2.2.  Example Error Response

2.3.  Providing the Issuer Identiﬁer

2.4.  Validating the Issuer Identiﬁer

3.  Authorization Server Metadata

4.  Security Considerations

5.  IANA Considerations

5.1.  OAuth Authorization Server Metadata

5.2.  OAuth Parameters Registration

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

6.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

[RFC6749]
The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework
independent authorization servers under the control of separate entities. Some OAuth grant
types utilize the resource owner's user agent to deliver the authorization server's response to the
OAuth client. One example of this pattern is the authorization response of the authorization code
grant.

 allows clients to interact with multiple

The authorization response as speciﬁed in
information about the identity of the authorization server that issued the response. Therefore,
clients receiving a response from the resource owner's user agent cannot be sure who initially
issued the response and the secrets contained therein. The lack of certainty about the origin of the
response enables a class of attacks called "mix-up attacks".

Section 4.1.2 of [RFC6749]

 does not contain any

Meyer zu Selhausen & Fett

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9207

OAuth 2.0 Auth Server ID

March 2022

Mix-up attacks are a potential threat to all OAuth clients that interact with multiple authorization
servers. When at least one of these authorization servers is under an attacker's control, the
attacker can launch a mix-up attack to acquire authorization codes or access tokens issued by
any one of the other authorization servers. There are multiple ways in which an attacker can gain
control over an authorization server supported by the client; for instance, an authorization
server could become compromised, or the attacker could register their own authorization server,
for example, using dynamic client registration

[RFC7591]

.

OAuth clients that interact with only one authorization server are not vulnerable to mix-up
attacks. However, when such clients decide to add support for a second authorization server in
the future, they become vulnerable and need to apply countermeasures to mix-up attacks.

Mix-up attacks aim to steal an authorization code or access token by tricking the client into
sending the authorization code or access token to the attacker instead of the honest
authorization or resource server. This marks a severe threat to the conﬁdentiality and integrity
of resources whose access is managed with OAuth. A detailed description and diﬀerent variants of
the mix-up attack class can be found in Section 4.4 of "OAuth 2.0 Security Best Current Practice"
[OAUTH-SECURITY-TOPICS]
 as well as in the original research ﬁrst highlighting this attack class,
"On the security of modern Single Sign-On Protocols: Second-Order Vulnerabilities in OpenID
Connect"
1601.01229]

 and "A Comprehensive Formal Security Analysis of OAuth 2.0"

[arXiv.1508.04324]

[arXiv.

.

This document deﬁnes a new parameter in the authorization response called iss. The iss
parameter allows the authorization server to include its identity in the authorization response
explicitly. The client can compare the value of the iss parameter to the issuer identiﬁer of the
authorization server (e.g., retrieved from its metadata) it believes it is interacting with. The iss
parameter gives the client certainty about the authorization server's identity and enables it to
send credentials such as authorization codes and access tokens only to the intended recipients.

The eﬀectiveness of the iss parameter against mix-up attacks was analyzed and formally
proven in "A Comprehensive Formal Security Analysis of OAuth 2.0"

[arXiv.1601.01229]

.

1.1.  Conventions and Terminology

The key words "
", "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
", "
"
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

This speciﬁcation uses the terms "access token", "authorization code", "authorization code grant",
"authorization server", "resource server", "authorization response", "grant type", and "client"
deﬁned by the OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework
. The term "issuer identiﬁer" is
deﬁned by OAuth 2.0 Authorization Server Metadata

[RFC6749]

[RFC8414]

.

Meyer zu Selhausen & Fett

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9207

OAuth 2.0 Auth Server ID

March 2022

2.  Response Parameter iss

In authorization responses to the client, including error responses, an authorization server
supporting this speciﬁcation
response.

 indicate its identity by including the iss parameter in the

MUST

The iss parameter value is the issuer identiﬁer of the authorization server that created the
authorization response, as deﬁned in
scheme without any query or fragment components.

 be a URL that uses the "https"

. Its value

[RFC8414]

MUST

2.1.  Example Authorization Response

The following example shows an authorization response from the authorization server whose
issuer identiﬁer is https://honest.as.example (extra line breaks and indentation are for
display purposes only):

HTTP/1.1 302 Found
Location: https://client.example/cb?
  code=x1848ZT64p4IirMPT0R-X3141MFPTuBX-VFL_cvaplMH58
  &state=ZWVlNDBlYzA1NjdkMDNhYjg3ZjUxZjAyNGQzMTM2NzI
  &iss=https%3A%2F%2Fhonest.as.example

2.2.  Example Error Response

The following example shows an error response from the same authorization server (extra line
breaks and indentation are for display purposes only):

HTTP/1.1 302 Found
Location: https://client.example/cb?
  error=access_denied
  &state=N2JjNGJhY2JiZjRhYzA3MGJkMzNmMDE5OWJhZmJhZjA
  &iss=https%3A%2F%2Fhonest.as.example

2.3.  Providing the Issuer Identiﬁer

Authorization servers supporting this speciﬁcation
clients to validate the iss parameter eﬀectively.

MUST

 provide their issuer identiﬁer to enable

For authorization servers publishing metadata according to

[RFC8414]

, the following rules apply:

•

The issuer identiﬁer included in the server's metadata value issuer
iss parameter's value.

MUST

 be identical to the

•

MUST

 indicate its support for the iss parameter by setting the metadata

The server
parameter authorization_response_iss_parameter_supported, deﬁned in Section 3, to
true.

Meyer zu Selhausen & Fett

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9207

OAuth 2.0 Auth Server ID

March 2022

Authorization servers
mechanism, which is outside of the scope of this speciﬁcation.

MAY

 additionally provide the issuer identiﬁer to clients by any other

2.4.  Validating the Issuer Identiﬁer

MUST

 extract the value of the iss parameter from

Clients that support this speciﬁcation
authorization responses they receive if the parameter is present. Clients
MUST
value from its "application/x-www-form-urlencoded" form according to
Appendix B of [RFC6749]
and compare the result to the issuer identiﬁer of the authorization server where the authorization
request was sent to. This comparison
6.2.1 of [RFC3986]
the authorization response and
responses, clients
server.

 assume that the error originates from the intended authorization

. If the value does not match the expected issuer identiﬁer, clients

 proceed with the authorization grant. For error

 use simple string comparison as deﬁned in

Section
 reject

 then decode the

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

MUST

MUST

 compare the iss parameter value to the issuer value in the server's metadata

More precisely, clients that interact with authorization servers supporting OAuth metadata
[RFC8414] MUST
document. If OAuth metadata is not used, clients
example, a static conﬁguration) to decide if the returned iss value is the expected value in the
current ﬂow (see also Section 4).

 use deployment-speciﬁc ways (for

MUST

MUST

If clients interact with both authorization servers supporting this speciﬁcation and authorization
servers not supporting this speciﬁcation, clients
authorization server supports the iss parameter. Clients
without the iss parameter from authorization servers that do support the parameter according
to the client's conﬁguration. Clients
parameter from authorization servers that do not indicate their support for the parameter.
However, there might be legitimate authorization servers that provide the iss parameter without
indicating their support in their metadata. Local policy or conﬁguration can determine whether
to accept such responses, and speciﬁc guidance is out of scope for this speciﬁcation.

 discard authorization responses with the iss

 retain state about whether each

 reject authorization responses

SHOULD

MUST

In general, clients that support this speciﬁcation
contain the iss parameter or reject them and exclusively support authorization servers that
provide the iss parameter in the authorization response. Local policy or conﬁguration can
determine when to accept such responses, and speciﬁc guidance is out of scope for this
speciﬁcation.

 accept authorization responses that do not

MAY

In OpenID Connect
endpoint, the value in the iss parameter
Token.

[OIDC.Core]

 ﬂows where an ID Token is returned from the authorization
 always be identical to the iss claim in the ID

MUST

Section 4.1.2 of [RFC6749]
MUST

 ignore the unrecognized iss parameter.

 already mandates that clients that do not support this speciﬁcation

Meyer zu Selhausen & Fett

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9207

OAuth 2.0 Auth Server ID

March 2022

[JARM]
Note: The "JWT Secured Authorization Response Mode for OAuth 2.0 (JARM)"
deﬁnes a mechanism that conveys all authorization response parameters in a JSON
Web Token (JWT). This JWT contains an iss claim that provides the same protection
if it is validated as described in Section 2.4. Therefore, an additional iss parameter
outside the JWT is not necessary when JARM is used.

3.  Authorization Server Metadata

The following parameter for the authorization server metadata
the authorization server's support for this speciﬁcation:

[RFC8414]

 is introduced to signal

authorization_response_iss_parameter_supported:

Boolean parameter indicating

whether the authorization server provides the iss parameter in the authorization response as
deﬁned in Section 2. If omitted, the default value is false.

4.  Security Considerations

MUST

 validate the iss parameter precisely as described in Section 2.4 and

 allow
Clients
multiple authorization servers to use the same issuer identiﬁer. In particular, when authorization
server details can be manually conﬁgured in the client, the client
 ensure that the accepted
iss values are unique for each authorization server.

MUST NOT

MUST

The iss parameter enables a client to decide if an authorization server "expects" to be used in an
OAuth ﬂow together with a certain token endpoint and potentially other endpoints, like the
userinfo endpoint
issuer and therefore the respective OAuth metadata document that points to the other endpoints.
When OAuth metadata is not used, the client can use, for example, a statically conﬁgured
expected iss value for each conﬁgured authorization server.

. When OAuth metadata is used, the iss parameter identiﬁes the

[OIDC.Core]

The issuer identiﬁer contained in the authorization response is not cryptographically protected
against tampering. In general, mechanisms such as JWTs (as speciﬁed in
protect the integrity of the authorization response. However, in mix-up attacks, the client
generally receives the authorization response from an uncompromised authorization server. If
an attacker can tamper with this authorization response before it is received by the client, the
attacker would also have direct access to the authorization code. The attacker does not need to
execute a mix-up attack to steal the authorization code. Therefore, integrity protection for the
authorization response is not necessary to defend against mix-up attacks.

[JARM]

) could be used to

Meyer zu Selhausen & Fett

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9207

OAuth 2.0 Auth Server ID

March 2022

MAY

There are also alternative countermeasures to mix-up attacks. When an authorization response
already includes an authorization server's issuer identiﬁer by other means and this identiﬁer is
checked as laid out in Section 2.4, the use and veriﬁcation of the iss parameter is not necessary
and
return an ID Token from the authorization endpoint (e.g., response_type=code id_token) or
[JARM]
 are used. However, if a client receives an authorization response that contains multiple
issuer identiﬁers, the client
 reject the response if these issuer identiﬁers do not match. The
details of alternative countermeasures are outside of the scope of this speciﬁcation.

 be omitted. For example, this is the case when OpenID Connect response types that

MUST

Mix-up attacks are only relevant to clients that interact with multiple authorization servers.
However, clients interacting with only one authorization server might add support for a second
authorization server in the future. By supporting multiple authorization servers, they become
vulnerable to mix-up attacks and need to apply countermeasures.

5.  IANA Considerations

5.1.  OAuth Authorization Server Metadata

IANA has registered the following value in the "OAuth Authorization Server Metadata" registry of
[IANA.OAuth.Parameters]

 established by

[RFC8414]

.

Metadata Name:
Metadata Description:

authorization_response_iss_parameter_supported

Boolean value indicating whether the authorization server provides the

iss parameter in the authorization response.

Change Controller:
Speciﬁcation Document(s):

IETF

Section 3 of RFC 9207

5.2.  OAuth Parameters Registration

IANA has updated the iss entry to appear as follows in the "OAuth Parameters" registry of
[RFC6749]
[IANA.OAuth.Parameters]

 established by

.

iss

Parameter name:
Parameter usage location:
IETF
Change Controller:
Speciﬁcation Document(s):

6.  References

authorization request, authorization response

Section 2 of RFC 9207,

[RFC9101]

, and

Section 4.1.1 of [RFC7519]

.

6.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
,
.
rfc2119>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

Meyer zu Selhausen & Fett

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9207

OAuth 2.0 Auth Server ID

March 2022

[RFC3986]

[RFC6749]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8414]

,

Berners-Lee, T. Fielding, R.
, and
Generic Syntax" STD 66 RFC 3986 DOI 10.17487/RFC3986
,
,
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3986>

L. Masinter "Uniform Resource Identiﬁer (URI):
<https://

, January 2005,

,

,

Hardt, D., Ed. "The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework" RFC 6749 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6749

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6749>

, October 2012,

,

,

,

,
,
Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
.
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

Jones, M. Sakimura, N.
,
,
Metadata" RFC 8414 DOI 10.17487/RFC8414
.
editor.org/info/rfc8414>

, and

,

J. Bradley "OAuth 2.0 Authorization Server
, June 2018,
<https://www.rfc-

6.2.  Informative References

[arXiv.1508.04324]

Mainka, C. Mladenov, V.

,

, and

J. Schwenk "On the security of modern Single

,

Sign-On Protocols: Second-Order Vulnerabilities in OpenID Connect"
2015,

<https://arxiv.org/abs/1508.04324>
.

, August

[arXiv.1601.01229]

,

Fett, D. Kuesters, R.
,

, and
Analysis of OAuth 2.0" DOI 10.1145/2976749.2978385
.
arxiv.org/abs/1601.01229>

G. Schmitz "A Comprehensive Formal Security
<https://

, January 2016,

,

[IANA.OAuth.Parameters]

IANA "OAuth Parameters" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/

,

,
.
oauth-parameters>

[JARM]

 and

Lodderstedt, T.
Authorization Response Mode for OAuth 2.0 (JARM)"
.
openid.net/specs/openid-ﬁnancial-api-jarm.html>

B. Campbell "Financial-grade API: JWT Secured
, October 2018,

,

<https://

[OAUTH-SECURITY-TOPICS]

Lodderstedt, T. Bradley, J. Labunets, A.

,

,

, and

D. Fett "OAuth 2.0

,

Security Best Current Practice" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-
oauth-security-topics-19
.
html/draft-ietf-oauth-security-topics-19>

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/

, 16 December 2021,

,

,

[OIDC.Core]

[RFC7519]

[RFC7591]

,

,
Sakimura, N. Bradley, J. Jones, M. de Medeiros, B.
Connect Core 1.0 incorporating errata set 1"
.
specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html>

,

, and
, November 2014,

C. Mortimore "OpenID

,

<https://openid.net/

,
Jones, M. Bradley, J.
10.17487/RFC7519

, and
, May 2015,

N. Sakimura "JSON Web Token (JWT)" RFC 7519 DOI

,

,

,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7519>

,

,
P. Hunt "OAuth 2.0
Richer, J., Ed. Jones, M. Bradley, J. Machulak, M.
Dynamic Client Registration Protocol" RFC 7591 DOI 10.17487/RFC7591
2015,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7591>

, and
,

,

,

,

, July

Meyer zu Selhausen & Fett

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9207

OAuth 2.0 Auth Server ID

March 2022

[RFC9101]

,

Sakimura, N. Bradley, J.
,
JWT-Secured Authorization Request (JAR)" RFC 9101 DOI 10.17487/RFC9101
,
August 2021,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9101>
.

M. Jones "The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework:

, and

,

Acknowledgements

We would like to thank
,
Takahiko Kawasaki Torsten Lodderstedt Christian Mainka Vladislav Mladenov Warren Parad
,
Aaron Parecki

Brian Campbell Roman Danyliw Vladimir Dzhuvinov Joseph Heenan

,
Rifaat Shekh-Yusef
, and

 for their valuable feedback on this document.

,

,

,

,

,

,

Authors' Addresses

Karsten Meyer zu Selhausen
Hackmanit
Email:

 karsten.meyerzuselhausen@hackmanit.de

Daniel Fett
yes.com
Email:

 mail@danielfett.de

Meyer zu Selhausen & Fett

Standards Track

Page 9

