Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9015
Standards Track
June 2021
2070-1721

A. Farrel
Old Dog Consulting

J. Drake
Juniper Networks

E. Rosen
Juniper Networks

J. Uttaro
AT&T

L. Jalil
Verizon

RFC 9015
BGP Control Plane for the Network Service Header in
Service Function Chaining

Abstract

This document describes the use of BGP as a control plane for networks that support service
function chaining. The document introduces a new BGP address family called the "Service
Function Chain (SFC) Address Family Identiﬁer / Subsequent Address Family Identiﬁer" (SFC AFI/
SAFI) with two Route Types. One Route Type is originated by a node to advertise that it hosts a
particular instance of a speciﬁed service function. This Route Type also provides "instructions"
on how to send a packet to the hosting node in a way that indicates that the service function has
to be applied to the packet. The other Route Type is used by a controller to advertise the paths of
"chains" of service functions and give a unique designator to each such path so that they can be
used in conjunction with the Network Service Header (NSH) deﬁned in RFC 8300.

This document adopts the service function chaining architecture described in RFC 7665.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9015

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

1.2.  Terminology

2.  Overview

2.1.  Overview of Service Function Chaining

2.2.  Control Plane Overview

3.  BGP SFC Routes

3.1.  Service Function Instance Route (SFIR)

3.1.1.  SFIR Pool Identiﬁer Extended Community

3.1.2.  MPLS Mixed Swapping/Stacking Extended Community

3.2.  Service Function Path Route (SFPR)

3.2.1.  The SFP Attribute

3.2.2.  General Rules for the SFP Attribute

4.  Mode of Operation

4.1.  Route Targets

4.2.  Service Function Instance Routes

4.3.  Service Function Path Routes

4.4.  Classiﬁer Operation

4.5.  Service Function Forwarder Operation

4.5.1.  Processing with "Gaps" in the SI Sequence

5.  Selection within Service Function Paths

6.  Looping, Jumping, and Branching

6.1.  Protocol Control of Looping, Jumping, and Branching

6.2.  Implications for Forwarding State

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

7.  Advanced Topics

7.1.  Correlating Service Function Path Instances

7.2.  Considerations for Stateful Service Functions

7.3.  VPN Considerations and Private Service Functions

7.4.  Flow Speciﬁcation for SFC Classiﬁers

7.5.  Choice of Data Plane SPI/SI Representation

7.5.1.  MPLS Representation of the SPI/SI

7.6.  MPLS Label Swapping/Stacking Operation

7.7.  Support for MPLS-Encapsulated NSH Packets

8.  Examples

8.1.  Example Explicit SFP with No Choices

8.2.  Example SFP with Choice of SFIs

8.3.  Example SFP with Open Choice of SFIs

8.4.  Example SFP with Choice of SFTs

8.5.  Example Correlated Bidirectional SFPs

8.6.  Example Correlated Asymmetrical Bidirectional SFPs

8.7.  Example Looping in an SFP

8.8.  Example Branching in an SFP

8.9.  Examples of SFPs with Stateful Service Functions

8.9.1.  Forward and Reverse Choice Made at the SFF

8.9.2.  Parallel End-to-End SFPs with Shared SFF

8.9.3.  Parallel End-to-End SFPs with Separate SFFs

8.9.4.  Parallel SFPs Downstream of the Choice

8.10. Examples Using IPv6 Addressing

8.10.1.  Example Explicit SFP with No Choices

8.10.2.  Example SFP with Choice of SFIs

8.10.3.  Example SFP with Open Choice of SFIs

8.10.4.  Example SFP with Choice of SFTs

9.  Security Considerations

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

10. IANA Considerations

10.1.  New BGP AF/SAFI

10.2.  "SFP attribute" BGP Path Attribute

10.3.  "SFP Attribute TLVs" Registry

10.4.  "SFP Association Type" Registry

10.5.  "Service Function Chaining Service Function Types" Registry

10.6.  Flow Speciﬁcation for SFC Classiﬁers

10.7.  New BGP Transitive Extended Community Type

10.8.  "SFC Extended Community Sub-Types" Registry

10.9.  New SPI/SI Representation Sub-TLV

10.10. "SFC SPI/SI Representation Flags" Registry

11. References

11.1.  Normative References

11.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

[RFC7498]

, the delivery of end-to-end services can require a packet to pass

As described in
through a series of Service Functions (SFs) -- e.g., WAN and application accelerators, Deep Packet
Inspection (DPI) engines, ﬁrewalls, TCP optimizers, and server load balancers -- in a speciﬁed
order; this is termed "service function chaining". There are a number of issues associated with
deploying and maintaining service function chaining in production networks, which are
described below.

Historically, if a packet needed to travel through a particular service chain, the nodes hosting the
service functions of that chain were placed in the network topology in such a way that the packet
could not reach its ultimate destination without ﬁrst passing through all the service functions in
the proper order. This need to place the service functions at particular topological locations

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

limited the ability to adapt a service function chain to changes in network topology (e.g., link or
node failures), network utilization, or oﬀered service load. These topological restrictions on
where the service functions could be placed raised the following issues:

1.

The process of conﬁguring or modifying a service function chain is operationally complex
and may require changes to the network topology.

2.

Alternate or redundant service functions may need to be co-located with the primary service
functions.

3.

When there is more than one path between source and destination, forwarding may be
asymmetric, and it may be diﬃcult to support bidirectional service function chains using
simple routing methodologies and protocols without adding mechanisms for traﬃc steering
or traﬃc engineering.

In order to address these issues, the service function chaining architecture describes service
function chains that are built in their own overlay network (the service function overlay
network), coexisting with other overlay networks, over a common underlay network
A service function chain is a sequence of service functions through which packet ﬂows that
satisfy speciﬁed criteria will pass.

.
[RFC7665]

This document describes the use of BGP as a control plane for networks that support service
function chaining. The document introduces a new BGP address family called the "Service
Function Chain (SFC) Address Family Identiﬁer / Subsequent Address Family Identiﬁer" (SFC AFI/
SAFI) with two Route Types. One Route Type is originated by a node to advertise that it hosts a
particular instance of a speciﬁed service function. This Route Type also provides "instructions"
on how to send a packet to the hosting node in a way that indicates that the service function has
to be applied to the packet. The other Route Type is used by a controller (a centralized network
component responsible for planning and coordinating service function chaining within the
network) to advertise the paths of "chains" of service functions and give a unique designator to
each such path so that they can be used in conjunction with the Network Service Header (NSH)
.
[RFC8300]

This document adopts the service function chaining architecture described in

.
[RFC7665]

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

1.2.  Terminology

This document uses the following terms from

[RFC7665]
:

•

Bidirectional Service Function Chain

•

Classiﬁer

•

Service Function (SF)

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

•

Service Function Chain (SFC)

•

Service Function Forwarder (SFF)

•

Service Function Instance (SFI)

•

Service Function Path (SFP)

•

SFC branching

Additionally, this document uses the following terms from

[RFC8300]
:

•

Network Service Header (NSH)

•

Service Index (SI)

•

Service Path Identiﬁer (SPI)

This document introduces the following terms:

Service Function Instance Route (SFIR):

A new BGP Route Type advertised by the node that
hosts an SFI to describe the SFI and to announce the way to forward a packet to the node
through the underlay network.

Service Function Overlay Network:

The logical network comprised of classiﬁers, SFFs, and SFIs

that are connected by paths or tunnels through underlay transport networks.

Service Function Path Route (SFPR):
advertise the details of each SFP.

A new BGP Route Type originated by controllers to

Service Function Type (SFT):

An indication of the function and features of an SFI.

2.  Overview

This section provides an overview of service function chaining in general and the control plane
deﬁned in this document. After reading this section, readers may ﬁnd it helpful to look through
Section 8 for some simple worked examples.

2.1.  Overview of Service Function Chaining

[RFC8300]

, a Service Function Chain (SFC) is an ordered list of Service Functions (SFs). A
In
Service Function Path (SFP) is an indication of which instances of SFs are acceptable to be
traversed in an instantiation of an SFC in a service function overlay network. The Service Path
Identiﬁer (SPI) is a 24-bit number that identiﬁes a speciﬁc SFP, and a Service Index (SI) is an 8-bit
number that identiﬁes a speciﬁc point in that path. In the context of a particular SFP (identiﬁed
by an SPI), an SI represents a particular service function and indicates the order of that SF in the
SFP.

Within the context of a speciﬁc SFP, an SI references a set of one or more SFs. Each of those SFs
may be supported by one or more Service Function Instances (SFIs). Thus, an SI may represent a
choice of SFIs of one or more service function types. By deploying multiple SFIs for a single SF,
one can provide load balancing and redundancy.

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

A special functional element, called a "classiﬁer", is located at each ingress point to a service
function overlay network. It assigns the packets of a given packet ﬂow to a speciﬁc SFP. This may
be done by comparing speciﬁc ﬁelds in a packet's header with local policy, which may be
customer/network/service speciﬁc. The classiﬁer picks an SFP and sets the SPI accordingly; it
then sets the SI to the value of the SI for the ﬁrst hop in the SFP, and then prepends a Network
Service Header (NSH)
classiﬁer and the node that hosts the ﬁrst SF in an SFP need not be located at the same point in
the service function overlay network.

 containing the assigned SPI/SI to that packet. Note that the

[RFC8300]

Note that the presence of the NSH can make it diﬃcult for nodes in the underlay network to
locate the ﬁelds in the original packet that would normally be used to constrain equal-cost
multipath (ECMP) forwarding. Therefore, it is recommended that the node prepending the NSH
also provide some form of entropy indicator that can be used in the underlay network. How this
indicator is generated and supplied, and how an SFF generates a new entropy indicator when it
forwards a packet to the next SFF, are out of the scope of this document.

The Service Function Forwarder (SFF) receives a packet from the previous node in an SFP,
removes the packet's link layer or tunnel encapsulation, and hands the packet and the NSH to the
SFI for processing. The SFI has no knowledge of the SFP.

When the SFF receives the packet and the NSH back from the SFI, it must select the next SFI
along the path using the SPI and SI in the NSH and potentially choosing between multiple SFIs
(possibly of diﬀerent SFTs), as described in Section 5. In the normal case, the SPI remains
unchanged, and the SI will have been decremented to indicate the next SF along the path. But
other possibilities exist if the SF makes other changes to the NSH through a process of
reclassiﬁcation:

•

The SI in the NSH may indicate:
◦

A previous SF in the path; this is known as "looping" (see Section 6).

◦

An SF further down the path; this is known as "jumping" (again see Section 6).

•

The SPI and the SI may point to an SF on a diﬀerent SFP; this is known as "branching" (see
Section 6).

Such modiﬁcations are limited to within the same service function overlay network. That is, an
SPI is known within the scope of service function overlay network. Furthermore, the new SI
value is interpreted in the context of the SFP identiﬁed by the SPI.

As described in
drops the packet; such errors should be logged, and such logs are subject to rate limits.

, an SPI that is unknown or not valid is treated as an error, and the SFF

[RFC8300]

[RFC8300]

Also, as described in
, an SFF receiving an SI that is unknown in the context of the SPI
can reduce the value to the next meaningful SI value in the SFP indicated by the SPI. If no such
value exists, or if the SFF does not support reducing the SI, the SFF drops the packet and should
log the event; such logs are also subject to rate limits.

The SFF then selects an SFI that provides the SF denoted by the SPI/SI and forwards the packet to
the SFF that supports that SFI.

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

[RFC8300]
domain.

 makes it clear that the intended scope is for use within a single provider's operational

This document adopts the service function chaining architecture described in
adds a control plane to support the functions, as described in Section 2.2. An essential component
of this solution is the controller. This is a network component responsible for planning SFPs
within the network. It gathers information about the availability of SFIs and SFFs, instructs the
control plane about the SFPs to be programmed, and instructs the classiﬁers how to assign traﬃc
ﬂows to individual SFPs.

[RFC7665]

 and

2.2.  Control Plane Overview

To accomplish the function described in Section 2.1, this document introduces the Service
Function Type (SFT), which is the category of SF that is supported by an SFF (such as "ﬁrewall").
An IANA registry of service function types is introduced in Section 10.5 and is consistent with
types used in other work, such as
SFTs, and it may support multiple SFIs of each SF.

. An SFF may support SFs of multiple diﬀerent

[BGP-LS-SR]

The registry of SFT values (see Section 10.5) is split into three ranges with assignment policies per
:
[RFC8126]

•

The special-purpose SFT values range is assigned through Standards Action. Values in that
range are used for special SFC operations and do not apply to the types of SF that may form
part of the SFP.

•

The First Come First Served range tracks assignments of SFT values made by any party that
deﬁnes an SF type. Reference through an Internet-Draft is desirable, but not required.

•

The Private Use range is not tracked by IANA and is primarily intended for use in private
networks where the meaning of the SFT values is locally tracked and under the control of a
local administrator.

It is envisaged that the majority of SFT values used will be assigned from the First Come First
Served space in the registry. This will ensure interoperability, especially in situations where
software and hardware from diﬀerent vendors are deployed in the same networks, or when
networks are merged. However, operators of private networks may choose to develop their own
SFs and manage the conﬁguration and operation of their network through their own list of SFT
values.

This document also introduces a new BGP AFI/SAFI (values 31 and 9, respectively) for "SFC
Routes". Two SFC Route Types are deﬁned by this document: the Service Function Instance Route
(SFIR) and the Service Function Path Route (SFPR). As detailed in Section 3, the Route Type is
indicated by a subﬁeld in the Network Layer Reachability Information (NLRI).

•

The SFIR is advertised by the node that provides access to the service function instance (i.e.,
the SFF). The SFIR describes a particular instance of a particular SF (i.e., an SFI) and the way
to forward a packet to it through the underlay network, i.e., IP address and encapsulation
information.

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

•

The SFPRs are originated by controllers. One SFPR is originated for each SFP. The SFPR
speciﬁes:
A.

the SPI of the path,

B.

the sequence of SFTs and/or SFIs of which the path consists, and

C.

for each such SFT or SFI, the SI that represents it in the identiﬁed path.

This approach assumes that there is an underlay network that provides connectivity between
SFFs and controllers and that the SFFs are grouped to form one or more service function overlay
networks through which SFPs are built. We assume that the controllers have BGP connectivity to
all SFFs and all classiﬁers within each service function overlay network.

When choosing the next SFI in a path, the SFF uses the SPI and SI as well as the SFT to choose
among the SFIs, applying, for example, a load-balancing algorithm or direct knowledge of the
underlay network topology, as described in Section 4.

The SFF then encapsulates the packet using the encapsulation speciﬁed by the SFIR of the
selected SFI and forwards the packet. See Figure 1.

Thus, the SFF can be seen as a portal in the underlay network through which a particular SFI is
reached.

Figure 1 shows a reference model for the service function chaining architecture. There are four
SFFs (SFF-1 through SFF-4) connected by tunnels across the underlay network. Packets arrive at a
classiﬁer and are channeled along SFPs to destinations reachable through SFF-4.

SFF-1 and SFF-4 each have one instance of one SF attached (SFa and SFe). SFF-2 has two types of
SF attached: one instance of one (SFc) and three instances of the other (SFb). SFF-3 has just one
instance of an SF (SFd), but in this case, the type of SFd is the same type as SFb (SFTx).

This ﬁgure demonstrates how load balancing can be achieved by creating several SFPs that
satisfy the same SFC. Suppose an SFC needs to include SFa, an SF of type SFTx, and SFc. A number
of SFPs can be constructed using any instance of SFb or using SFd. Load balancing may be
applied at two places:

•

The classiﬁer may distribute diﬀerent ﬂows onto diﬀerent SFPs to share the load in the
network and across SFIs.

•

SFF-2 may distribute diﬀerent ﬂows (on the same SFP) to diﬀerent instances of SFb to share
the processing load.

Note that, for convenience and clarity, Figure 1 shows only a few tunnels between SFFs. There
could be a full mesh of such tunnels, or more likely, a selection of tunnels connecting key SFFs to
enable the construction of SFPs and balance load and traﬃc in the network. Further, the ﬁgure
does not show any controllers; these would each have BGP connectivity to the classiﬁer and all of
the SFFs.

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

    Packets
    | | |
 ------------
|            |
| Classifier |
|            |
 ------+-----
       |
    ---+---                 ---------           -------
   |       |    Tunnel     |         |         |       |
   | SFF-1 |===============|  SFF-2  |=========| SFF-4 |
   |       |               |         |         |       |
   |       |                -+-----+-          |       |
   |       |  ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,/,,     \          |       |
   |       | '  .........../.  '   ..\......   |       |
   |       | ' : SFb      /  : '  :   \ SFc :  |       |
   |       | ' :      ---+-  : '  :  --+--  :  |       |
   |       | ' :    -| SFI | : '  : | SFI | :  |       |
   |       | ' :  -|  -----  : '  :  -----  :  |       |
   |       | ' : |  -----    : '   .........   |       |
   |       | ' :  -----      : '               |       |
   |       | '  .............  '               |       |--- Dests
   |       | '                 '               |       |--- Dests
   |       | '    .........    '               |       |
   |       | '   :  -----  :   '               |       |
   |       | '   : | SFI | :   '               |       |
   |       | '   :  --+--  :   '               |       |
   |       | '   :SFd |    :   '               |       |
   |       | '    ....|....    '               |       |
   |       | '        |        '               |       |
   |       | ' SFTx   |        '               |       |
   |       | ',,,,,,,,|,,,,,,,,'               |       |
   |       |          |                        |       |
   |       |       ---+---                     |       |
   |       |      |       |                    |       |
   |       |======| SFF-3 |====================|       |
    ---+---       |       |                     ---+---
       |           -------                         |
   ....|....                                   ....|....
  :    | SFa:                                 :    | SFe:
  :  --+--  :                                 :  --+--  :
  : | SFI | :                                 : | SFI | :
  :  -----  :                                 :  -----  :
   .........                                   .........

Figure 1: The Service Function Chaining Architecture Reference Model

As previously noted,
use within a single provider's operational domain. This reduces the requirements on the control
plane function.

 makes it clear that the mechanisms it deﬁnes are intended for

[RFC8300]

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

Section 5.2 of [RFC7665]
chaining network. The functions are broken down into six items, the ﬁrst four of which are
completely covered by the mechanisms described in this document:

 sets out the functions provided by a control plane for a service function

1.

Visibility of all SFs and the SFFs through which they are reached.

2.

Computation of SFPs and programming into the network.

3.

Selection of SFIs explicitly in the SFP or dynamically within the network.

4.

Programming of SFFs with forwarding path information.

The ﬁfth and sixth items in the list in RFC 7665 concern the use of metadata. These are more
peripheral to the control plane mechanisms deﬁned in this document but are discussed in
Section 4.4.

3.  BGP SFC Routes

This document deﬁnes a new AFI/SAFI for BGP, known as "SFC", with an NLRI that is described in
this section.

The format of the SFC NLRI is shown in Figure 2.

                 +---------------------------------------+
                 |  Route Type (2 octets)                |
                 +---------------------------------------+
                 |  Length (2 octets)                    |
                 +---------------------------------------+
                 |  Route Type specific (variable)       |
                 +---------------------------------------+

Figure 2: The Format of the SFC NLRI

The "Route Type" ﬁeld determines the encoding of the rest of the Route Type speciﬁc SFC NLRI.

The "Length" ﬁeld indicates the length, in octets, of the "Route Type speciﬁc" ﬁeld of the SFC
NLRI.

This document deﬁnes the following Route Types:

1.

Service Function Instance Route (SFIR)

2.

Service Function Path Route (SFPR)

An SFIR is used to identify an SFI. An SFPR deﬁnes a sequence of SFs (each of which has at least
one instance advertised in an SFIR) that form an SFP.

The detailed encoding and procedures for these Route Types are described in subsequent
sections.

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

 with an
The SFC NLRI is carried in BGP
Address Family Identiﬁer (AFI) of 31 and a Subsequent Address Family Identiﬁer (SAFI) of 9. The
"NLRI" ﬁeld in the MP_REACH_NLRI/MP_UNREACH_NLRI attribute contains the SFC NLRI,
encoded as speciﬁed above.

 using BGP Multiprotocol Extensions

[RFC4760]

[RFC4271]

In order for two BGP speakers to exchange SFC NLRIs, they
advertisements to ensure that they both are capable of properly processing such NLRIs. This is
done as speciﬁed in
, by using capability code 1 (Multiprotocol BGP) with an AFI of 31
and a SAFI of 9.

 use BGP capabilities

[RFC4760]

MUST

The "nexthop" ﬁeld of the MP_REACH_NLRI attribute of the SFC NLRI
address of the advertising SFF.

MUST

 be set to a loopback

3.1.  Service Function Instance Route (SFIR)

Figure 3 shows the Route Type speciﬁc NLRI of the SFIR.

                 +--------------------------------------------+
                 |  Route Distinguisher (RD) (8 octets)       |
                 +--------------------------------------------+
                 |  Service Function Type (2 octets)          |
                 +--------------------------------------------+

Figure 3: SFIR Route Type Speciﬁc NLRI

 deﬁnes a Route Distinguisher (RD) as consisting of a two-byte "Type" ﬁeld and a six-
[RFC4364]
byte "Value" ﬁeld, and it deﬁnes RD types 0, 1, and 2. In this speciﬁcation, the RD (used for the
SFIR)

 be of type 0, 1, or 2.

MUST

If two SFIRs are originated from diﬀerent administrative domains (within the same provider's
operational domain), they
diﬀerent service function overlay networks)
diﬀerent from any non-VPN SFIRs.

 have diﬀerent RDs. In particular, SFIRs from diﬀerent VPNs (for

 have diﬀerent RDs, and those RDs

MUST

MUST

MUST

 be

The SFT identiﬁes the functions/features an SF can oﬀer, e.g., classiﬁer, ﬁrewall, load balancer.
There may be several SFIs that can perform a given service function. Each node hosting an SFI
MUST

 originate an SFIR for each type of SF that it hosts (as indicated by the SFT value), and it

 advertise an SFIR for each instance of each type of SF. A minimal advertisement allows

MAY
construction of valid SFPs and leaves the selection of SFIs to the local SFF; a detailed
advertisement may have scaling concerns but allows a controller that constructs an SFP to make
an explicit choice of SFI.

Note that a node may advertise all its SFIs of one SFT in one shot using normal BGP UPDATE
packing. That is, all of the SFIRs in an Update share a common Tunnel Encapsulation and Route
Target (RT) attribute. See also Section 3.2.1.

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

The SFIR representing a given SFI will contain an NLRI with "RD" ﬁeld set to an RD as speciﬁed
above, and with the "SFT" ﬁeld set to identify that SFI's SFT. The values for the "SFT" ﬁeld are
taken from a registry administered by IANA (see Section 10). A BGP UPDATE containing one or
more SFIRs
to be sent to an SFI identiﬁed in one of the SFIRs, it will be encapsulated as speciﬁed by the
tunnel encapsulation attribute and then transmitted through the underlay network.

 also include a tunnel encapsulation attribute

[RFC9012]

. If a data packet needs

MUST

Note that the tunnel encapsulation attribute
advertising SFF to identify the overlay or VPN network that a received packet is transiting. This is
because the [SPI, SI] in a received packet is speciﬁc to a particular overlay or VPN network.

 contain suﬃcient information to allow the

MUST

3.1.1.  SFIR Pool Identiﬁer Extended Community

This document deﬁnes a new transitive Extended Community
 of type 0x0b called the
"SFC Extended Community". When used with Sub-Type 1, this is called the "SFIR Pool Identiﬁer
extended community". It
 be included in SFIR advertisements, and it is used to indicate the
identity of a pool of SFIRs to which an SFIR belongs. Since an SFIR may be a member of more
than one pool, multiple of these extended communities may be present on a single SFIR
advertisement.

[RFC4360]

MAY

SFIR pools allow SFIRs to be grouped for any purpose. Possible uses include control plane
scalability and stability. A pool identiﬁer may be included in an SFPR to indicate a set of SFIs that
are acceptable at a speciﬁc point on an SFP (see Sections 3.2.1.3 and 4.3).

The SFIR Pool Identiﬁer Extended Community is encoded in 8 octets as shown in Figure 4.

             +--------------------------------------------+
             |  Type = 0x0b (1 octet)                     |
             +--------------------------------------------+
             |  Sub-Type = 1 (1 octet)                    |
             +--------------------------------------------+
             |  SFIR Pool Identifier value (6 octets)     |
             +--------------------------------------------+

Figure 4: The SFIR Pool Identiﬁer Extended Community

The SFIR Pool Identiﬁer value is encoded in a 6-octet ﬁeld in network byte order, and the value is
unique within the scope of an overlay network. This means that pool identiﬁers need to be
centrally managed, which is consistent with the assignment of SFIs to pools.

3.1.2.  MPLS Mixed Swapping/Stacking Extended Community

As noted in Section 3.1.1, this document deﬁnes a new transitive Extended Community of type
0x0b called the "SFC Extended Community". When used with Sub-Type 2, this is called the "MPLS
Mixed Swapping/Stacking Labels Extended Community". The community is encoded as shown in
Figure 5. It contains a pair of MPLS labels: an SFC Context Label and an SF Label, as described in
[RFC8595]
 be
. Each label is 20 bits encoded in a 3-octet (24-bit) ﬁeld with 4 trailing bits that
set to zero.

MUST

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

             +--------------------------------------------+
             |  Type = 0x0b (1 octet)                     |
             +--------------------------------------------|
             |  Sub-Type = 2 (1 octet)                    |
             +--------------------------------------------|
             |  SFC Context Label (3 octets)              |
             +--------------------------------------------|
             |  SF Label (3 octets)                       |
             +--------------------------------------------+

Figure 5: The MPLS Mixed Swapping/Stacking Labels Extended Community

Note that it is assumed that each SFF has one or more globally unique SFC Context Labels and
that the context-label space and the SPI-address space are disjoint. In other words, a label value
cannot be used to indicate both an SFC context and an SPI, and it can be determined from
knowledge of the label spaces whether a label indicates an SFC context or an SPI.

If an SFF supports SFP Traversal with an MPLS Label Stack, it
Community with the SFIRs that it advertises.

MUST

 include this Extended

See Section 7.6 for a description of how this Extended Community is used.

3.2.  Service Function Path Route (SFPR)

Figure 6 shows the Route Type speciﬁc NLRI of the SFPR.

             +-----------------------------------------------+
             |  Route Distinguisher (RD) (8 octets)          |
             +-----------------------------------------------+
             |  Service Path Identifier (SPI) (3 octets)     |
             +-----------------------------------------------+

Figure 6: SFPR Route Type Speciﬁc NLRI

 deﬁnes a Route Distinguisher (RD) as consisting of a two-byte "Type" ﬁeld and a six-
[RFC4364]
byte "Value" ﬁeld, and it deﬁnes RD types 0, 1, and 2. In this speciﬁcation, the RD (used for the
SFPR)

 be of type 0, 1, or 2.

MUST

MUST

 be associated with an RD. The association of an SFP with an RD is determined by

All SFPs
provisioning. If two SFPRs are originated from diﬀerent controllers, they
RDs. Additionally, SFPRs from diﬀerent VPNs (i.e., in diﬀerent service function overlay networks)
MUST

 be diﬀerent from any non-VPN SFPRs.

 have diﬀerent RDs, and those RDs

 have diﬀerent

MUST

MUST

 and is the value to be placed in the "Service
The Service path identiﬁer is deﬁned in
Path Identiﬁer" ﬁeld of the NSH of any packet sent on this SFP. It is expected that one or more
controllers will originate these routes in order to conﬁgure a service function overlay network.

[RFC8300]

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

The SFP is described in a new BGP Path attribute, the SFP attribute. Section 3.2.1 shows the
format of that attribute.

3.2.1.  The SFP Attribute

[RFC4271]
attribute called the "SFP attribute", with value 37. The ﬁrst SFP attribute
subsequent instances

 deﬁnes BGP Path attributes. This document introduces a new Optional Transitive Path
 be processed, and

 be ignored.

MUST

MUST

The common ﬁelds of the SFP attribute are set as follows:

•

The Optional bit is set to 1 to indicate that this is an optional attribute.

•

The Transitive bit is set to 1 to indicate that this is a transitive attribute.

•

The Extended Length bit is set if the length of the SFP attribute is encoded in one octet (set to
[RFC4271]
0) or two octets (set to 1), as described in

.

•

The Attribute Type Code is set to 37.

The content of the SFP attribute is a series of Type-Length-Value (TLV) constructs. Some TLVs may
include Sub-TLVs. All TLVs and Sub-TLVs have a common format:

Type:

A single octet indicating the type of the SFP attribute TLV. Values are taken from the

registry described in Section 10.3.

Length:

A two-octet ﬁeld indicating the length of the data following the "Length" ﬁeld, counted

in octets.

Value:

The contents of the TLV.

The formats of the TLVs deﬁned in this document are shown in the following sections. The
presence rules and meanings are as follows.

•

The SFP attribute contains a sequence of zero or more Association TLVs. That is, the
Association TLV is
SFPR and another SFPR. Each associated SFPR is indicated using the RD with which it is
advertised (we say the SFPR-RD to avoid ambiguity).

. Each Association TLV provides an association between this

OPTIONAL

•

The SFP attribute contains a sequence of one or more Hop TLVs. Each Hop TLV contains all of
the information about a single hop in the SFP.

•

Each Hop TLV contains an SI value and a sequence of one or more SFT TLVs. Each SFT TLV
contains an SFI reference for each instance of an SF that is allowed at this hop of the SFP for
the speciﬁc SFT. Each SFI is indicated using the RD with which it is advertised (we say the
SFIR-RD to avoid ambiguity).

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

 describes the handling of malformed BGP attributes, or those that are in
 revises BGP error handling speciﬁcally for the UPDATE message,

Section 6 of [RFC4271]
error in some way.
provides guidelines for the authors of documents deﬁning new attributes, and revises the error-
handling procedures for a number of existing attributes. This document introduces the SFP
attribute and so deﬁnes error handling as follows:

[RFC7606]

•

When parsing a message, an unknown Attribute Type Code or a length that suggests that the
attribute is longer than the remaining message is treated as a malformed message, and the
"treat-as-withdraw" approach is used as per

[RFC7606]

.

•

When parsing a message that contains an SFP attribute, the following cases constitute errors:
1.

Optional bit is set to 0 in the SFP attribute.

2.

Transitive bit is set to 0 in the SFP attribute.

3.

Unknown "TLV Type" ﬁeld found in the SFP attribute.

4.

TLV length that suggests the TLV extends beyond the end of the SFP attribute.

5.

Association TLV contains an unknown SFPR-RD.

6.

No Hop TLV found in the SFP attribute.

7.

No Sub-TLV found in a Hop TLV.

8.

Unknown SFIR-RD found in an SFT TLV.

•

The errors listed above are treated as follows:
1, 2, 4, 6, 7:

The attribute

approach used as per

MUST
[RFC7606]

.

 be treated as malformed and the "treat-as-withdraw"

3:

Unknown TLVs

MUST

 be ignored, and message processing

MUST

 continue.

5, 8:

The absence of an RD with which to correlate is nothing more than a soft error. The

receiver
SHOULD
advertisement is received.

 store the information from the SFP attribute until a corresponding

3.2.1.1.  The Association TLV

The Association TLV is an optional TLV in the SFP attribute. It
 be present multiple times.
Each occurrence provides an association with another SFP as advertised in another SFPR. The
format of the Association TLV is shown in Figure 7.

MAY

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

             +--------------------------------------------+
             |  Type = 1 (1 octet)                        |
             +--------------------------------------------|
             |  Length (2 octets)                         |
             +--------------------------------------------|
             |  Association Type (1 octet)                |
             +--------------------------------------------|
             |  Associated SFPR-RD (8 octets)             |
             +--------------------------------------------|
             |  Associated SPI (3 octets)                 |
             +--------------------------------------------+

Figure 7: The Format of the Association TLV

The ﬁelds are as follows:

•

"Type" is set to 1 to indicate an Association TLV.

•

"Length" indicates the length in octets of the "Association Type" and "Associated SFPR-RD"
ﬁelds. The value of the "Length" ﬁeld is 12.

•

The "Association Type" ﬁeld indicates the type of association. The values are tracked in an
IANA registry (see Section 10.4). Only one value is deﬁned in this document: Type 1 indicates
association of two unidirectional SFPs to form a bidirectional SFP. An SFP attribute
NOT
present, the ﬁrst one
that documents that deﬁne new association types must also deﬁne the presence rules for
Association TLVs of the new type.

 contain more than one Association TLV with Association Type 1; if more than one is
 be processed, and subsequent instances

 be ignored. Note

SHOULD

MUST

MUST

•

The Associated SFPR-RD contains the RD of the associated SFP as advertised in an SFPR.

•

The Associated SPI contains the SPI of the associated SFP as advertised in an SFPR.

SHOULD

SHOULD

Association TLVs with unknown Association Type values
that contain an Associated SFPR-RD value equal to the RD of the SFPR in which they are
contained
indicated by the Associated SFPR-RD, then the Association TLV
these cases, an implementation
withdraw" approach per
approach may make an implementation less ﬂexible in the event of future extensions to this
protocol.

 be ignored. If the Associated SPI is not equal to the SPI advertised in the SFPR
 be ignored. In all three of
SHOULD
 reject the SFP attribute as malformed and use the "treat-as-
; however, implementors are cautioned that such an

 be ignored. Association TLVs

MAY
[RFC7606]

Note that when two SFPRs reference each other using the Association TLV, one SFPR
advertisement will be received before the other. Therefore, processing of an association
NOT

 be rejected simply because the Associated SFPR-RD is unknown.

MUST

Further discussion of correlation of SFPRs is provided in Section 7.1.

3.2.1.2.  The Hop TLV

There is one Hop TLV in the SFP attribute for each hop in the SFP. The format of the Hop TLV is
shown in Figure 8. At least one Hop TLV

 be present in an SFP attribute.

MUST

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

             +--------------------------------------------+
             |  Type = 2 (1 octet)                        |
             +--------------------------------------------|
             |  Length (2 octets)                         |
             +--------------------------------------------|
             |  Service Index (1 octet)                   |
             +--------------------------------------------|
             |  Hop Details (variable)                    |
             +--------------------------------------------+

Figure 8: The Format of the Hop TLV

The ﬁelds are as follows:

•

"Type" is set to 2 to indicate a Hop TLV.

•

"Length" indicates the length, in octets, of the "Service Index" and "Hop Details" ﬁelds.

•

The Service Index is deﬁned in
of the NSH that an SFF will use to look up to which next SFI a packet is to be sent.

 and is the value found in the "Service Index" ﬁeld

[RFC8300]

•

The "Hop Details" ﬁeld consists of a sequence of one or more Sub-TLVs.

Each hop of the SFP may demand that a speciﬁc type of SF is executed, and that type is indicated
in Sub-TLVs of the Hop TLV. At least one Sub-TLV
SFT Sub-TLV (see Section 3.2.1.3) and the MPLS Swapping/Stacking Sub-TLV (see Section 3.2.1.4);
other Sub-TLVs may be deﬁned in future. The SFT Sub-TLV provides a list of which types of SF
are acceptable at a speciﬁc hop, and for each type it allows a degree of control to be imposed on
the choice of SFIs of that particular type. The MPLS Swapping/Stacking Sub-TLV indicates the
type of SFC encoding to use in an MPLS label stack.

 be present. This document deﬁnes the

MUST

If no Hop TLV is present in an SFP attribute, it is a malformed attribute.

3.2.1.3.  The SFT Sub-TLV

The SFT Sub-TLV
Sub-TLV is shown in Figure 9. The Hop Sub-TLV contains a list of SFIR-RD values each taken from
the advertisement of an SFI. Together they form a list of acceptable SFIs of the indicated type.

 be included in the list of Sub-TLVs of the Hop TLV. The format of the SFT

MAY

             +--------------------------------------------+
             |  Type = 3 (1 octet)                        |
             +--------------------------------------------|
             |  Length (2 octets)                         |
             +--------------------------------------------|
             |  Service Function Type (2 octets)          |
             +--------------------------------------------|
             |  SFIR-RD List (variable)                   |
             +--------------------------------------------+

Figure 9: The Format of the SFT Sub-TLV

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

The ﬁelds are as follows:

•

"Type" is set to 3 to indicate an SFT Sub-TLV.

•

"Length" indicates the length, in octets, of the "Service Function Type" and "SFIR-RD List"
ﬁelds.

•

The SFT value indicates the category (type) of SF that is to be executed at this hop. The types
are as advertised for the SFs supported by the SFFs. SFT values in the range 1-31 are special-
purpose SFT values and have meanings deﬁned by the documents that describe them -- the
value "Change Sequence" is deﬁned in Section 6.1 of this document.

•

The hop description is further qualiﬁed beyond the speciﬁcation of the SFTs by listing, for
each SFT in each hop, the SFIs that may be used at the hop. The SFIs are identiﬁed using the
SFIR-RDs from the advertisements of the SFIs in the SFIRs. Note that if the list contains one or
more SFIR Pool Identiﬁers, then for each, the SFIR-RD list is eﬀectively expanded to include
the SFIR-RD of each SFIR advertised with that SFIR Pool Identiﬁer. An SFIR-RD of value zero
has special meaning, as described in Section 5. Each entry in the list is eight octets long, and
the number of entries in the list can be deduced from the value of the "Length" ﬁeld.

•

Note that an SFIR-RD is of type 0, 1, or 2 (as described in Section 3.1). Thus, the high-order
octet of an RD found in an SFIR-RD List always has a value of 0x00. However, the high-order
octet of an SFIR Pool Identiﬁer (an Extended Community with "Type" ﬁeld 0x0b) will always
have a nonzero value. This allows the node processing the SFIR-RD list to distinguish
between the two types of list entry.

3.2.1.4.  MPLS Swapping/Stacking Sub-TLV

The MPLS Swapping/Stacking Sub-TLV (Type value 4) is a zero-length Sub-TLV that is
in the Hop TLV and is used when the data representation is MPLS (see Section 7.5). When
present, it indicates to the classiﬁer imposing an MPLS label stack that the current hop is to use
an {SFC Context Label, SF label} rather than an {SPI, SF} label pair. See Section 7.6 for more
details.

OPTIONAL

3.2.1.5.  SFP Traversal With MPLS Label Stack TLV

The SFP Traversal With MPLS Label Stack TLV (Type value 5) is a zero-length TLV that can be
carried in the SFP attribute and indicates to the classiﬁer and the SFFs on the SFP that an MPLS
label stack with label swapping/stacking is to be used for packets traversing the SFP. All of the
SFFs speciﬁed at each of the SFP's hops
Extended Community (see Section 3.1.2) for the SFP to be considered usable.

 have advertised an MPLS Mixed Swapping/Stacking

MUST

3.2.2.  General Rules for the SFP Attribute

It is possible for the same SFI, as described by an SFIR, to be used in multiple SFPRs.

When two SFPRs have the same SPI but diﬀerent SFPR-RDs, there can be three cases:

1.

Two or more controllers are originating SFPRs for the same SFP. In this case, the content of
the SFPRs is identical, and the duplication is to ensure receipt and provide controller
redundancy.

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

2.

There is a transition in content of the advertised SFP, and the advertisements may originate
from one or more controllers. In this case, the content of the SFPRs will be diﬀerent.

3.

The reuse of an SPI may result from a conﬁguration error.

There is no way in any of these cases for the receiving SFF to know which SFPR to process, and
the SFPRs could be received in any order. At any point in time, when multiple SFPRs have the
same SPI but diﬀerent SFPR-RDs, the SFF
RD when interpreting the RDs as 8-octet integers in network byte order. The SFF
occurrence to assist with debugging.

 use the SFPR with the numerically lowest SFPR-

SHOULD

MUST

 log this

Furthermore, a controller that wants to change the content of an SFP is
new SPI and so create a new SFP onto which the classiﬁers can transition packet ﬂows before the
SFPR for the old SFP is withdrawn. This avoids any race conditions with SFPR advertisements.

RECOMMENDED

 to use a

Additionally, a controller
until at least a conﬁgurable amount of time has passed. This timer
hour.

 reuse an SPI after it has withdrawn the SFPR that used it
 have a default of one

SHOULD NOT

SHOULD

4.  Mode of Operation

This document describes the use of BGP as a control plane to create and manage a service
function overlay network.

4.1.  Route Targets

The main feature introduced by this document is the ability to create multiple service function
overlay networks through the use of Route Targets (RTs)

[RFC4364]
.

Every BGP UPDATE containing an SFIR or SFPR carries one or more RTs. The RT carried by a
particular SFIR or SFPR is determined by the provisioning of the route's originator.

Every node in a service function overlay network is conﬁgured with one or more import RTs.
Thus, each SFF will import only the SFPRs with matching RTs, allowing the construction of
multiple service function overlay networks or the instantiation of SFCs within a Layer 3 Virtual
Private Network (L3VPN) or Ethernet VPN (EVPN) instance (see Section 7.3). An SFF that has a
presence in multiple service function overlay networks (i.e., one that imports more than one RT)
will usually maintain separate forwarding state for each overlay network.

4.2.  Service Function Instance Routes

The SFIR (see Section 3.1) is used to advertise the existence and location of a speciﬁc SFI; it
consists of:

•

The RT as just described.

•

A Service Function Type (SFT) that is the type of service function that is provided (such as
"ﬁrewall").

•

A Route Distinguisher (RD) that is unique to a speciﬁc overlay.

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

4.3.  Service Function Path Routes

The SFPR (see Section 3.2) describes a speciﬁc path of an SFC. The SFPR contains the Service Path
Identiﬁer (SPI) used to identify the SFP in the NSH in the data plane. It also contains a sequence
of Service Indexes (SIs). Each SI identiﬁes a hop in the SFP, and each hop is a choice between one
or more SFIs.

As described in this document, each SFP route is identiﬁed in the service function overlay
network by an RD and an SPI. The SPI is unique within a single VPN instance supported by the
underlay network.

The SFPR advertisement comprises:

•

An RT as described in Section 4.1.

•

A tuple that identiﬁes the SFPR.
◦

An RD that identiﬁes an advertisement of an SFPR.

◦

The SPI that uniquely identiﬁes this path within the VPN instance distinguished by the RD.
This SPI also appears in the NSH.

•

A series of SIs. Each SI is used in the context of a particular SPI and identiﬁes one or more
SFs (distinguished by their SFTs). For each SF, it identiﬁes a set of SFIs that instantiate the SF.
The values of the SI indicate the order in which the SFs are to be executed in the SFP that is
represented by the SPI.

•

The SI is used in the NSH to identify the entries in the SFP. Note that the SI values have
meaning only relative to a speciﬁc path. They have no semantic other than to indicate the
order of SFs within the path and are assumed to be monotonically decreasing from the start
to the end of the path

[RFC8300]

.

•

Each SI is associated with a set of one or more SFIs that can be used to provide the indexed
SF within the path. Each member of the set comprises:
◦
The RD used in an SFIR advertisement of the SFI.

◦

The SFT that indicates the type of function as used in the same SFIR advertisement of the
SFI.

This may be summarized as follows, where the notations "SFPR-RD" and "SFIR-RD" are used to
distinguish the two diﬀerent RDs, and where "*" indicates a multiplier:

   RT, {SFPR-RD, SPI}, m * {SI, {n * {SFT, p * SFIR-RD} } }

Where:

RT:

Route Target

SFPR-RD:

The Route Descriptor of the SFPR advertisement

SPI:

Service Path Identiﬁer used in the NSH

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

m:

The number of hops in the SFP

n:

The number of choices of SFT for a speciﬁc hop

p:

The number of choices of SFI for a given SFT in a speciﬁc hop

SI:

Service Index used in the NSH to indicate a speciﬁc hop

SFT:

The Service Function Type used in the same advertisement of the SFIR

SFIR-RD:

The Route Descriptor used in an advertisement of the SFIR

That is, there can be multiple SFTs at a given hop, as described in Section 5.

Note that the values of SI are from the set {255, ..., 1} and are monotonically decreasing within
the SFP. SIs
MUST
appear more than once. Gaps
Malformed SFPRs
SFPR-RD and SPI) to be discarded.

 appear in order within the SFPR (i.e., monotonically decreasing) and
 appear in the sequence, as described in Section 4.5.1.

 cause any previous instance of the SFPR (same

MAY
 be discarded and

MUST

MUST

MUST NOT

Note that if the SFIR-RD list in an SFT TLV contains one or more SFIR Pool Identiﬁers, then in the
above expression, "p" is the sum of the number of individual SFIR-RD values and the sum for
each SFIR Pool Identiﬁer of the number of SFIRs advertised with that SFIR Pool Identiﬁer. In
other words, the list of SFIR-RD values is eﬀectively expanded to include the SFIR-RD of each
SFIR advertised with each SFIR Pool Identiﬁer in the SFIR-RD list.

The choice of SFI is explained further in Section 5. Note that an SFIR-RD value of zero has special
meaning, as described in that section.

4.4.  Classiﬁer Operation

As shown in Figure 1, the classiﬁer is a component that is used to assign packets to an SFP.

The classiﬁer is responsible for determining to which packet ﬂow a packet belongs. The
mechanism it uses to achieve that classiﬁcation is out of the scope of this document but might
include inspection of the packet header. The classiﬁer has been instructed (by the controller or
through some other conﬁguration mechanism -- see Section 7.4) which ﬂows are to be assigned to
which SFPs, and so it can impose an NSH on each packet and initialize the NSH with the SPI of
the selected SFP and the SI of its ﬁrst hop.

Note that instructions delivered to the classiﬁer may include information about the metadata to
encode (and the format for that encoding) on packets that are classiﬁed by the classiﬁer to a
particular SFP. As mentioned in Section 2.2, this corresponds to the ﬁfth element of control plane
functionality described in
. Such instructions fall outside the scope of this speciﬁcation
(but see Section 7.4), as do instructions to other service function chaining elements on how to
interpret metadata (as described in the sixth element of control plane functionality described in
[RFC7665]

[RFC7665]

).

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

4.5.  Service Function Forwarder Operation

Each packet sent to an SFF is transmitted encapsulated in an NSH. The NSH includes an SPI and
SI: the SPI indicates the SFPR advertisement that announced the SFP; the tuple SPI/SI indicates a
speciﬁc hop in a speciﬁc path and maps to the RD/SFT of a particular SFIR advertisement.

When an SFF gets an SFPR advertisement, it will ﬁrst determine whether to import the route by
examining the RT. If the SFPR is imported, the SFF then determines whether it is on the SFP by
looking for its own SFIR-RDs or any SFIR-RD with value zero in the SFPR. For each occurrence in
the SFP, the SFF creates forwarding state for incoming packets and forwarding state for outgoing
packets that have been processed by the speciﬁed SFI.

The SFF creates local forwarding state for packets that it receives from other SFFs. This state
makes the association between the SPI/SI in the NSH of the received packet and one or more
speciﬁc local SFIs, as identiﬁed by the SFIR-RD/SFT. If there are multiple local SFIs that match,
this is because a single advertisement was made for a set of equivalent SFIs, and the SFF may use
local policy (such as load balancing) to determine to which SFI to forward a received packet.

The SFF also creates next-hop forwarding state for packets received back from the local SFI that
need to be forwarded to the next hop in the SFP. There may be a choice of next hops, as described
in Section 4.3. The SFF could install forwarding state for all potential next hops or it could choose
to only install forwarding state for a subset of the potential next hops. If a choice is made, then it
will be as described in Section 5.

The installed forwarding state may change over time, reacting to changes in the underlay
network and the availability of particular SFIs. Note that the forwarding state describes how one
SFF sends packets to another SFF, but not how those packets are routed through the underlay
network. SFFs may be connected by tunnels across the underlay, or packets may be sent
addressed to the next SFF and routed through the underlay. In any case, transmission across the
underlay requires encapsulation of packets with a header for transport in the underlay network.

Note that SFFs only create and store forwarding state for the SFPs on which they are included.
They do not retain state for all SFPs advertised.

An SFF may also install forwarding state to support looping, jumping, and branching. The
protocol mechanism for explicit control of looping, jumping, and branching uses a speciﬁc
reserved SFT value at a given hop of an SFPR and is described in Section 6.1.

4.5.1.  Processing with "Gaps" in the SI Sequence

The behavior of an SF, as described in
NSH by one before returning a packet to the local SFF for further processing. This means that
there is a good reason to assume that the SFP is composed of a series of SFs, each indicated by an
SI value one less than the previous.

, is to decrement the value of the "SI" ﬁeld in the

[RFC8300]

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

However, there is an advantage to having nonsuccessive SIs in an SPI. Consider the case where
an SPI needs to be modiﬁed by the insertion or removal of an SF. In the latter case, this would
lead to a "gap" in the sequence of SIs, and in the former case, this could only be achieved if a gap
already existed into which the new SF with its new SI value could be inserted. Otherwise, all
"downstream" SFs would need to be renumbered.

Now, of course, such renumbering could be performed, but it would lead to a signiﬁcant
disruption to the SFC as all the SFFs along the SFP were "reprogrammed". Thus, to achieve
dynamic modiﬁcation of an SFP (and even in-service modiﬁcation), it is desirable to be able to
make these modiﬁcations without changing the SIs of the elements that were present before the
modiﬁcation. This will produce much more consistent/predictable behavior during the
convergence period, where otherwise the change would need to be fully propagated.

Another approach says that any change to an SFP simply creates a new SFP that can be assigned
a new SPI. All that would be needed would be to give a new instruction to the classiﬁer, and
traﬃc would be switched to the new SFP that contains the new set of SFs. This approach is
practical but neglects to consider that the SFP may be referenced by other SFPs (through
"branch" instructions) and used by many classiﬁers. In those cases, the corresponding
conﬁguration resulting from a change in SPI may have wide ripples and create scope for errors
that are hard to trace.

Therefore, while this document requires that the SI values in an SFP are monotonically
decreasing, it makes no assumption that the SI values are sequential. Conﬁguration tools may
apply that rule, but they are not required to. To support this, an SFF
when it receives a packet:

 process as follows

SHOULD

•

If the SI indicates a known entry in the SFP, the SFF
looking up the SI and determining to which local SFI to deliver the packet.

MUST

 process the packet as normal,

•

If the SI does not match an entry in the SFP, the SFF
(smaller) value present in the SFP and process the packet using that SI.

MUST

 reduce the SI value to the next

•

If there is no smaller SI (i.e., if the end of the SFP has been reached), the SFF
SI value as not valid, as described in

[RFC8300]

.

MUST

 treat the

This makes the behavior described in this document a superset of the function in
is, an implementation that strictly follows RFC 8300 in performing SI decrements in units of one
is perfectly in line with the mechanisms deﬁned in this document.

[RFC8300]

. That

SFF implementations
implementation will not support receiving an SI value that is not present in the SFP and will
.
discard the packets as described in
[RFC8300]

 choose to only support contiguous SI values in an SFP. Such an

MAY

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

5.  Selection within Service Function Paths

As described in Section 2, the SPI/SI in the NSH passed back from an SFI to the SFF may leave the
SFF with a choice of next-hop SFTs and a choice of SFIs for each SFT. That is, the SPI indicates an
SFPR, and the SI indicates an entry in that SFPR. Each entry in an SFPR is a set of one or more
SFT/SFIR-RD pairs. The SFF
SFI, and send the packet to that next-hop SFF.

 choose one of these, identify the SFF that supports the chosen

MUST

The choice be may oﬀered for load balancing across multiple SFIs, or for discrimination between
diﬀerent actions necessary at a speciﬁc hop in the SFP. Diﬀerent SFT values may exist at a given
hop in an SFP to support several cases:

•

There may be multiple instances of similar service functions that are distinguished by
diﬀerent SFT values. For example, ﬁrewalls made by vendor A and vendor B may need to be
identiﬁed by diﬀerent SFT values because, while they have similar functionality, their
behavior is not identical. Then, some SFPs may limit the choice of SF at a given hop by
specifying the SFT for vendor A, but other SFPs might not need to control which vendor's SF
is used and so can indicate that either SFT can be used.

•

There may be an obvious branch needed in an SFP, such as the processing after a ﬁrewall
where admitted packets continue along the SFP, but suspect packets are diverted to a
"penalty box". In this case, the next hop in the SFP will be indicated with two diﬀerent SFT
values.

In the typical case, the SFF chooses a next-hop SFF by looking at the set of all SFFs that support
the SFs identiﬁed by the SI (that set having been advertised in individual SFIR advertisements),
ﬁnding the one or more that are "nearest" in the underlay network, and choosing between next-
hop SFFs using its own load-balancing algorithm.

An SFI may inﬂuence this choice process by passing additional information back, along with the
packet and NSH. This information may inﬂuence local policy at the SFF to either cause it to favor
a next-hop SFF (perhaps selecting one that is not nearest in the underlay) or inﬂuence the load-
balancing algorithm.

This selection applies to the normal case but also applies in the case of looping, jumping, and
branching (see Section 6).

Suppose an SFF in a particular service function overlay network (identiﬁed by a particular
import RT, RT-z) needs to forward an NSH-encapsulated packet whose SPI is SPI-x and whose SI is
SI-y. It does the following:

1.

It looks for an installed SFPR that carries RT-z and has SPI-x in its NLRI. If there is none, then
such packets cannot be forwarded.

2.

From the SFP attribute of that SFPR, it ﬁnds the Hop TLV with SI value set to SI-y. If there is
no such Hop TLV, then such packets cannot be forwarded.

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

3.

It then ﬁnds the "relevant" set of SFIRs by going through the list of SFT TLVs contained in the
Hop TLV as follows:
A.

An SFIR is relevant if it carries RT-z, the SFT in its NLRI matches the SFT value in one of the
SFT TLVs, and the RD value in its NLRI matches an entry in the list of SFIR-RDs in that SFT
TLV.

B.

If an entry in the SFIR-RD list of an SFT TLV contains the value zero, then an SFIR is
relevant if it carries RT-z and the SFT in its NLRI matches the SFT value in that SFT TLV.
That is, any SFIR in the service function overlay network deﬁned by RT-z and with the
correct SFT is relevant.

C.

If a pool identiﬁer is in use, then an SFIR is relevant if it is a member of the pool.

Each of the relevant SFIRs identiﬁes a single SFI and contains a tunnel encapsulation attribute
that speciﬁes how to send a packet to that SFI. For a particular packet, the SFF chooses a
particular SFI from the set of relevant SFIRs. This choice is made according to local policy.

A typical policy might be to ﬁgure out the set of SFIs that are closest and load balance among
them. But this is not the only possible policy.

Thus, at any point in time when an SFF selects its next hop, it chooses from the intersection of the
set of next-hop RDs contained in the SFPR and the RDs contained in the SFF's local set of SFIRs
(i.e., according to the determination of "relevance", above). If the intersection is null, the SFPR is
unusable. Similarly, when this condition applies on the controller that originated the SFPR, it
SHOULD

 either withdraw the SFPR or re-advertise it with a new set of RDs for the aﬀected hop.

6.  Looping, Jumping, and Branching

As described in Section 2, an SFI or an SFF may cause a packet to "loop back" to a previous SF on
a path in order that a sequence of functions may be re-executed. This is simply achieved by
replacing the SI in the NSH with a higher value, instead of decreasing it as would normally be the
case, to determine the next hop in the path.

Section 2 also describes how an SFI or SFF may cause a packet to "jump forward" to an SF on a
path that is not the immediate next SF in the SFP. This is simply achieved by replacing the SI in
the NSH with a lower value than would be achieved by decreasing it by the normal amount.

A more complex option to move packets from one SFP to another is described in
 and
Section 2, where it is termed "branching". This mechanism allows an SFI or SFF to make a choice
of downstream treatments for packets based on local policy and the output of the local SF.
Branching is achieved by changing the SPI in the NSH to indicate the new path and setting the SI
to indicate the point in the path at which the packets enter.

[RFC8300]

Note that the NSH does not include a marker to indicate whether a speciﬁc packet has been
around a loop before. Therefore, the use of NSH metadata
prevent inﬁnite loops.

[RFC8300]

 may be required in order to

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

6.1.  Protocol Control of Looping, Jumping, and Branching

If the SFT value in an SFT TLV in an SFPR has the special-purpose SFT value "Change Sequence"
(see Section 10), then this is an indication that the SFF may make a loop, jump, or branch
according to local policy and information returned by the local SFI.

In this case, the SPI and SI of the next hop are encoded in the eight bytes of an entry in the SFIR-
RD list as follows:

3 bytes SPI

1 byte SI

4 bytes Reserved (

SHOULD

 be set to zero and ignored)

If the SI in this encoding is not part of the SFPR indicated by the SPI in this encoding, then this is
an explicit error that
SHOULD
 cause any forwarding state to be installed in the SFF, and packets received with the SPI that
NOT
indicates this SFPR

 be detected by the SFF when it parses the SFPR. The SFPR

 be silently discarded.

SHOULD

SHOULD

If the SPI in this encoding is unknown, the SFF
SFPR but

SHOULD NOT
 hold the SFPR pending receipt of another SFPR that does use the encoded SPI.

 install any forwarding state for this

MAY

If the SPI matches the current SPI for the path, this is a loop or jump. In this case, if the SI is
greater than or equal to the current SI, it is a loop. If the SPI matches and the SI is less than the
next SI, it is a jump.

If the SPI indicates another path, this is a branch, and the SI indicates the point at which to enter
that path.

The Change Sequence SFT is just another SFT that may appear in a set of SFI/SFT tuples within an
SI and is selected as described in Section 5.

Note that special-purpose SFTs
SHOULD

 be ignored.

MUST NOT

 be advertised in SFIRs. If such an SFIR is received, it

6.2.  Implications for Forwarding State

Support for looping and jumping requires that the SFF has forwarding state established to an SFF
that provides access to an instance of the appropriate SF. This means that the SFF must have seen
the relevant SFIR advertisements and mush have known that it needed to create the forwarding
state. This is a matter of local conﬁguration and implementation; for example, an
implementation could be conﬁgured to install forwarding state for speciﬁc looping/jumping.

Support for branching requires that the SFF has forwarding state established to an SFF that
provides access to an instance of the appropriate entry SF on the other SFP. This means that the
SFF must have seen the relevant SFIR and SFPR advertisements and known that it needed to

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

create the forwarding state. This is a matter of local conﬁguration and implementation; for
example, an implementation could be conﬁgured to install forwarding state for speciﬁc
branching (identiﬁed by SPI and SI).

7.  Advanced Topics

This section highlights several advanced topics introduced elsewhere in this document.

7.1.  Correlating Service Function Path Instances

It is often useful to create bidirectional SFPs to enable packet ﬂows to traverse the same set of
SFs, but in the reverse order. However, packets on SFPs in the data plane (per
contain a direction indicator, so each direction must use a diﬀerent SPI.

[RFC8300]

) do not

As described in Section 3.2.1.1, an SFPR can contain one or more correlators encoded in
Association TLVs. If the Association Type indicates "Bidirectional SFP", then the SFP advertised in
the SFPR is one direction of a bidirectional pair of SFPs, where the other in the pair is advertised
in the SFPR with RD as carried in the "Associated SFPR-RD" ﬁeld of the Association TLV. The SPI
carried in the "Associated SPI" ﬁeld of the Association TLV provides a cross-check against the SPI
advertised in the SFPR with RD as carried in the "Associated SFPR-RD" ﬁeld of the Association
TLV.

As noted in Section 3.2.1.1, when SFPRs reference each other, one SFPR advertisement will be
received before the other. Therefore, processing of an association will require that the ﬁrst SFPR
not be rejected simply because the Associated SFPR-RD it carries is unknown. However, the SFP
deﬁned by the ﬁrst SFPR is valid and
the absence of an advertisement of its partner.

 be available for use as a unidirectional SFP, even in

SHOULD

Furthermore, in error cases where SFPR-a associates with SFPR-b, but SFPR-b associates with
SFPR-c such that a bidirectional pair of SFPs cannot be formed, the individual SFPs are still valid
and
situation, because it represents a controller error.

 be available for use as unidirectional SFPs. An implementation

 log this

SHOULD

SHOULD

Usage of a bidirectional SFP may be programmed into the classiﬁers by the controller.
Alternatively, a classiﬁer may look at incoming packets on a bidirectional packet ﬂow, extract the
SPI from the received NSH, and look up the SFPR to ﬁnd the reverse-direction SFP to use when it
sends packets.

See Section 8 for an example of how this works.

7.2.  Considerations for Stateful Service Functions

Some service functions are stateful. That means that they build and maintain state derived from
conﬁguration or the packet ﬂows that they handle. In such cases, it can be important or
necessary that all packets from a ﬂow continue to traverse the same instance of a service
function so that the state can be leveraged and does not need to be regenerated.

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

In the case of bidirectional SFPs, it may be necessary to traverse the same instances of a stateful
service function in both directions. A ﬁrewall is a good example of such a service function.

This issue becomes a concern where there are multiple parallel instances of a service function
and a determination of which one to use could normally be left to the SFF as a load-balancing or
local-policy choice.

For the forward-direction SFP, the concern is that the same choice of SF is made for all packets of
a ﬂow under normal network conditions. It may be possible to guarantee that the load-balancing
functions applied in the SFFs are stable and repeatable, but a controller that constructs SFPs
might not want to trust to this. The controller can, in these cases, build a number of more speciﬁc
SFPs, each traversing a speciﬁc instance of the stateful SFs. In this case, the load-balancing choice
can be left up to the classiﬁer. Thus, the classiﬁer selects which instance of a stateful SF is used
by a particular ﬂow by selecting the SFP that the ﬂow uses.

For bidirectional SFPs where the same instance of a stateful SF must be traversed in both
directions, it is not enough to leave the choice of SFI as a local choice, even if the load balancing
is stable, because coordination would be required between the decision points in the forward
and reverse directions, and this may be hard to achieve in all cases except where it is the same
SFF that makes the choice in both directions.

Note that this approach necessarily increases the amount of SFP state in the network (i.e., there
are more SFPs). It is possible to mitigate this eﬀect by careful construction of SFPs built from a
concatenation of other SFPs.

Section 8.9 includes some simple examples of SFPs for stateful SFs.

7.3.  VPN Considerations and Private Service Functions

Likely deployments include reserving speciﬁc instances of SFs for speciﬁc customers or allowing
customers to deploy their own SFs within the network. Building SFs in such environments
requires that suitable identiﬁers be used to ensure that SFFs distinguish which SFIs can be used
and which cannot.

This problem is similar to a problem in the way that VPNs are supported and is solved in a
similar way. The "RT" ﬁeld is used to indicate a set of SFs from which all choices must be made.

7.4.  Flow Speciﬁcation for SFC Classiﬁers

 deﬁnes a set of BGP routes that can be used to identify the packets in a given ﬂow

[RFC8955]
using ﬁelds in the header of each packet, and a set of actions -- encoded as Extended
Communities -- that can be used to disposition those packets. This document enables the use of
these mechanisms by SFC classiﬁers by deﬁning a new action Extended Community called "Flow
Speciﬁcation for SFC Classiﬁers", identiﬁed by the value 0x0d. Note that implementation of this
section of this speciﬁcation will be controllers or classiﬁers communicating with each other
directly for the purpose of instructing the classiﬁer how to place packets onto an SFP. So that the
implementation of classiﬁers can be kept simple, and to avoid the confusion between the
 include other action
purposes of diﬀerent Extended Communities, a controller

MUST NOT

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

Extended Communities at the same time as a "Flow Speciﬁcation for SFC Classiﬁers" Extended
Community. A "Flow Speciﬁcation for SFC Classiﬁers" Traﬃc Filtering Action Extended
Community advertised with any other Traﬃc Filtering Action Extended Community
treated as malformed in line with
being handled as "treat-as-withdraw", according to

 and result in the ﬂow-speciﬁcation UPDATE message
.

[RFC7606], Section 2

[RFC8955]

MUST

 be

To put the ﬂow speciﬁcation into context, when multiple service function chaining overlays are
present in one network, each FlowSpec update
overlay or VPN network for which it is intended.

 be tagged with the route target of the

MUST

This Extended Community is encoded as an 8-octet value, as shown in Figure 10.

                      1                   2                   3
  0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 | Type=0x80     | Sub-Type=0x0d |  SPI                          |
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |  SPI  (cont.) |   SI          |  SFT                          |
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 10: The Format of the Flow Speciﬁcation for SFC Classiﬁers Extended Community

The Extended Community contains the Service Path Identiﬁer (SPI), Service Index (SI), and
Service Function Type (SFT), as deﬁned elsewhere in this document. Thus, each action extended
community deﬁnes the entry point (not necessarily the ﬁrst hop) into a speciﬁc SFP. This allows,
for example, diﬀerent ﬂows to enter the same SFP at diﬀerent points.

[RFC8955]

Note that, according to
these action Extended Communities. If a given action extended community does not contain an
installed SFPR with the speciﬁed {SPI, SI, SFT}, it
of the speciﬁed ﬂow.

, a given ﬂow-speciﬁcation update may include multiple of

 be used for dispositioning the packets

MUST NOT

The normal case of packet classiﬁcation for service function chaining will see a packet enter the
SFP at its ﬁrst hop. In this case, the SI in the Extended Community is superﬂuous, and the SFT
may also be unnecessary. To allow these cases to be handled, a special meaning is assigned to an
SI of zero (not a valid value) and an SFT of zero (a reserved value in the registry -- see Section
10.5).

•

If an SFC Classiﬁers Extended Community is received with SI = 0, then it means that the ﬁrst
 be used.
hop of the SFP indicated by the SPI

MUST

•

If an SFC Classiﬁers Extended Community is received with SFT = 0, then there are two
subcases:
◦

If there is a choice of SFT in the hop indicated by the value of the SI (including SI = 0), then
SFT = 0 means there is a free choice of which SFT to use, according to local policy).

◦

If there is no choice of SFT in the hop indicated by the value of SI, then SFT = 0 means that
the value of the SFT at that hop, as indicated in the SFPR for the indicated SPI,
used.

MUST

 be

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

One of the ﬁlters that the ﬂow speciﬁcation may describe is the VPN to which the traﬃc belongs.
Additionally, as noted above, to put the indicated SPI into context when multiple SFC overlays are
present in one network, each FlowSpec update
overlay or VPN network for which it is intended.

 be tagged with the route target of the

MUST

Note that future extensions might be made to the Flow Speciﬁcation for SFC Classiﬁers Extended
Community to provide instruction to the classiﬁer about what metadata to add to packets that it
classiﬁes for forwarding on a speciﬁc SFP; however, that is outside the scope of this document.

7.5.  Choice of Data Plane SPI/SI Representation

This document ties together the control and data planes of a service function chaining overlay
network through the use of the SPI/SI that is nominally carried in the NSH of a given packet.
However, in order to handle situations in which the NSH is not ubiquitously deployed, it is also
possible to use alternative data plane representations of the SPI/SI by carrying the identical
semantics in other protocol ﬁelds, such as MPLS labels

[RFC8595]
.

This document deﬁnes a new Sub-TLV for the tunnel encapsulation attribute
SI Representation Sub-TLV of type 16. This Sub-TLV
contained in a tunnel encapsulation attribute when the attribute is carried by an SFIR. The
"Value" ﬁeld of this Sub-TLV is a two-octet ﬁeld of ﬂags numbered counting from the most
signiﬁcant bit, each of which describes how the originating SFF expects to see the SPI/SI
represented in the data plane for packets carried in the tunnels described by the Tunnel TLV.

[RFC9012]
 be present in each Tunnel TLV

MAY

, the SPI/

The following bits are deﬁned by this document and are tracked in an IANA registry described in
Section 10.10:

Bit 0:

If this bit is set, the NSH is to be used to carry the SPI/SI in the data plane.

Bit 1:

If this bit is set, two labels in an MPLS label stack are to be used as described in Section

7.5.1.

If a given Tunnel TLV does not contain an SPI/SI Representation Sub-TLV, then it
processed as if such a Sub-TLV is present with Bit 0 set and no other bits set. That is, the absence
of the Sub-TLV

 be interpreted to mean that the NSH is to be used.

SHALL

MUST

 be

If a given Tunnel TLV contains an SPI/SI Representation Sub-TLV with a "Value" ﬁeld that has no
ﬂag set, then the tunnel indicated by the Tunnel TLV
packets. If a given Tunnel TLV contains an SPI/SI Representation Sub-TLV with both bit 0 and bit
1 set, then the tunnel indicated by the Tunnel TLV
The meaning and rules for the presence of other bits is to be deﬁned in future documents, but
implementations of this speciﬁcation

 set other bits to zero and ignore them on receipt.

 be used for forwarding SFC packets.

 be used for forwarding SFC

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

MUST

If a given Tunnel TLV contains more than one SPI/SI Representation Sub-TLV, then the ﬁrst one
MUST

 be considered and subsequent instances

 be ignored.

MUST

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

Note that the MPLS representation of the logical NSH may be used even if the tunnel is not an
MPLS tunnel. Conversely, MPLS tunnels may be used to carry other encodings of the logical NSH
(speciﬁcally, the NSH itself). It is a requirement that both ends of a tunnel over the underlay
network know that the tunnel is used for service function chaining and know what form of NSH
representation is used. The signaling mechanism described here allows coordination of this
information.

7.5.1.  MPLS Representation of the SPI/SI

If bit 1 is set in the SPI/SI Representation Sub-TLV, then labels in the MPLS label stack are used to
indicate SFC forwarding and processing instructions to achieve the semantics of a logical NSH.
The label stack is encoded as shown in

[RFC8595]

.

7.6.  MPLS Label Swapping/Stacking Operation

When a classiﬁer constructs an MPLS label stack for an SFP, it starts with that SFP's last hop. If
the last hop requires an {SPI, SI} label pair for label swapping, it pushes the SI (set to the SI value
of the last hop) and the SFP's SPI onto the MPLS label stack. If the last hop requires a {context
label, SFI label} label pair for label stacking, it selects a speciﬁc SFIR and pushes that SFIR's SFI
label and context label onto the MPLS label stack.

The classiﬁer then moves sequentially back through the SFP one hop at a time. For each hop, if
the hop requires an {SPI, SI} and there is an {SPI, SI} at the top of the MPLS label stack, the SI is
set to the SI value of the current hop. If there is not an {SPI, SI} at the top of the MPLS label stack,
it pushes the SI (set to the SI value of the current hop) and the SFP's SPI onto the MPLS label
stack.

If the hop requires a {context label, SFI label}, it selects a speciﬁc SFIR and pushes that SFIR's SFI
label and context label onto the MPLS label stack.

7.7.  Support for MPLS-Encapsulated NSH Packets

[RFC8596]
 describes how to transport SFC packets using the NSH over an MPLS transport
network. Signaling that this approach is in use is supported by this document as follows:

•

A "BGP Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute" Sub-TLV is included with the codepoint 10
(representing "MPLS Label Stack") from the "BGP Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute Sub-TLVs"
registry deﬁned in

[RFC9012]

.

•

An "SFP Traversal With MPLS Label Stack" TLV is included containing an "SPI/SI
Representation" Sub-TLV with bit 0 set and bit 1 cleared.

In this case, the MPLS label stack constructed by the SFF to forward a packet to the next SFF on
the SFP will consist of the labels needed to reach that SFF, and if label stacking is used, it will also
include the labels advertised in the MPLS Label Stack Sub-TLV and the labels remaining in the
stack needed to traverse the remainder of the SFP.

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

8.  Examples

Most of the examples in this section use IPv4 addressing. But there is nothing special about IPv4
in the mechanisms described in this document, and they are equally applicable to IPv6. A few
examples using IPv6 addressing are provided in Section 8.10.

Assume we have a service function overlay network with four SFFs (SFF1, SFF2, SFF3, and SFF4).
The SFFs have addresses in the underlay network as follows:

   SFF1 192.0.2.1
   SFF2 192.0.2.2
   SFF3 192.0.2.3
   SFF4 192.0.2.4

Each SFF provides access to some SFIs from the four SFTs, SFT=41, SFT=42, SFT=43, and SFT=44,
as follows:

   SFF1 SFT=41 and SFT=42
   SFF2 SFT=41 and SFT=43
   SFF3 SFT=42 and SFT=44
   SFF4 SFT=43 and SFT=44

The service function network also contains a controller with address 198.51.100.1.

This example service function overlay network is shown in Figure 11.

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 33

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

       --------------
      |  Controller  |
      | 198.51.100.1 |   ------     ------    ------     ------
       --------------   | SFI  |   | SFI  |  | SFI  |   | SFI  |
                        |SFT=41|   |SFT=42|  |SFT=41|   |SFT=43|
                         ------     ------    ------     ------
                              \     /              \     /
                             ---------            ---------
               ----------   |   SFF1  |          |   SFF2  |
   Packet --> |          |  |192.0.2.1|          |192.0.2.2|
   Flows  --> |Classifier|   ---------            ---------  -->Dest
              |          |                                   -->
               ----------    ---------            ---------
                            |   SFF3  |          |   SFF4  |
                            |192.0.2.3|          |192.0.2.4|
                             ---------            ---------
                              /     \              /     \
                         ------     ------    ------     ------
                        | SFI  |   | SFI  |  | SFI  |   | SFI  |
                        |SFT=42|   |SFT=44|  |SFT=43|   |SFT=44|
                         ------     ------    ------     ------

Figure 11: Example Service Function Overlay Network

The SFFs advertise routes to the SFIs they support. These advertisements contain RDs that are set
according to the network operator's conﬁguration model. In all of these IPv4 examples, we use
RDs of Type 1 such that the available six octets are partitioned as four octets for the IPv4 address
of the advertising SFF, and two octets that are a local index of the SFI. This scheme is chosen
purely for convenience of documentation, and an operator is totally free to use any other scheme
so long as it conforms to the deﬁnitions of SFIR and SFPR in Sections 3.1 and 3.2.

Thus, we see the following SFIRs advertised:

   RD = 192.0.2.1/1, SFT = 41
   RD = 192.0.2.1/2, SFT = 42
   RD = 192.0.2.2/1, SFT = 41
   RD = 192.0.2.2/2, SFT = 43
   RD = 192.0.2.3/7, SFT = 42
   RD = 192.0.2.3/8, SFT = 44
   RD = 192.0.2.4/5, SFT = 43
   RD = 192.0.2.4/6, SFT = 44

Note that the addressing used for communicating between SFFs is taken from the tunnel
encapsulation attribute of the SFIR and not from the SFIR-RD.

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 34

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

8.1.  Example Explicit SFP with No Choices

Consider the following SFPR.

   SFP1:  RD = 198.51.100.1/101, SPI = 15,
          [SI = 255, SFT = 41, RD = 192.0.2.1/1],
          [SI = 250, SFT = 43, RD = 192.0.2.2/2]

The SFP consists of an SF of Type 41 located at SFF1, followed by an SF of Type 43 located at SFF2.
This path is fully explicit, and each SFF is oﬀered no choice in forwarding packets along the path.

SFF1 will receive packets on the path from the classiﬁer and will identify the path from the SPI
(15). The initial SI will be 255, and so SFF1 will deliver the packets to the SFI for SFT 41.

When the packets are returned to SFF1 by the SFI, the SI will be decreased to 250 for the next
hop. SFF1 has no ﬂexibility in the choice of SFF to support the next-hop SFI and will forward the
packet to SFF2, which will send the packets to the SFI that supports SFT 43 before forwarding the
packets to their destinations.

8.2.  Example SFP with Choice of SFIs

   SFP2:  RD = 198.51.100.1/102, SPI = 16,
          [SI = 255, SFT = 41, RD = 192.0.2.1/1],
          [SI = 250, SFT = 43, {RD = 192.0.2.2/2,
                                RD = 192.0.2.4/5 } ]

In this example, the path also consists of an SF of Type 41 located at SFF1, and this is followed by
an SF of Type 43. However, in this case, the SI = 250 contains a choice between the SFI located at
SFF2 and the SFI located at SFF4.

SFF1 will receive packets on the path from the classiﬁer and will identify the path from the SPI
(16). The initial SI will be 255, and so SFF1 will deliver the packets to the SFI for SFT 41.

When the packets are returned to SFF1 by the SFI, the SI will be decreased to 250 for the next
hop. SFF1 now has a choice of next-hop SFFs to execute the next hop in the path. It can either
forward packets to SFF2 or SFF4 to execute a function of Type 43. It uses its local load-balancing
algorithm to make this choice. The chosen SFF will send the packets to the SFI that supports SFT
43 before forwarding the packets to their destinations.

8.3.  Example SFP with Open Choice of SFIs

   SFP3:  RD = 198.51.100.1/103, SPI = 17,
          [SI = 255, SFT = 41, RD = 192.0.2.1/1],
          [SI = 250, SFT = 44, RD = 0]

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 35

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

In this example, the path also consists of an SF of Type 41 located at SFF1, and this is followed by
an SI with an RD of zero and SF of Type 44. This means that a choice can be made between any
SFF that supports an SFI of Type 44.

SFF1 will receive packets on the path from the classiﬁer and will identify the path from the SPI
(17). The initial SI will be 255, and so SFF1 will deliver the packets to the SFI for SFT 41.

When the packets are returned to SFF1 by the SFI, the SI will be decreased to 250 for the next
hop. SFF1 now has a free choice of next-hop SFFs to execute the next hop in the path, selecting
between all SFFs that support SFs of Type 44. Looking at the SFIRs it has received, SFF1 knows
that SF Type 44 is supported by SFF3 and SFF4. SFF1 uses its local load-balancing algorithm to
make this choice. The chosen SFF will send the packets to the SFI that supports SFT 44 before
forwarding the packets to their destinations.

8.4.  Example SFP with Choice of SFTs

   SFP4:  RD = 198.51.100.1/104, SPI = 18,
          [SI = 255, SFT = 41, RD = 192.0.2.1/1],
          [SI = 250, {SFT = 43, RD = 192.0.2.2/2,
                      SFT = 44, RD = 192.0.2.3/8 } ]

This example provides a choice of SF type in the second hop in the path. The SI of 250 indicates a
choice between SF Type 43 located at SF2 and SF Type 44 located at SF3.

SFF1 will receive packets on the path from the classiﬁer and will identify the path from the SPI
(18). The initial SI will be 255, and so SFF1 will deliver the packets to the SFI for SFT 41.

When the packets are returned to SFF1 by the SFI, the SI will be decreased to 250 for the next
hop. SFF1 now has a free choice of next-hop SFFs to execute the next hop in the path, selecting
between all SFFs that support an SF of Type 43 and SFF3, which supports an SF of Type 44. These
may be completely diﬀerent functions that are to be executed dependent on speciﬁc conditions,
or they may be similar functions identiﬁed with diﬀerent type identiﬁers (such as ﬁrewalls from
diﬀerent vendors). SFF1 uses its local policy and load-balancing algorithm to make this choice
and may use additional information passed back from the local SFI to help inform its selection.
The chosen SFF will send the packets to the SFI that supports the chosen SFT before forwarding
the packets to their destinations.

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 36

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

8.5.  Example Correlated Bidirectional SFPs

  SFP5:  RD = 198.51.100.1/105, SPI = 19,
         Assoc-Type = 1, Assoc-RD = 198.51.100.1/106, Assoc-SPI = 20,
         [SI = 255, SFT = 41, RD = 192.0.2.1/1],
         [SI = 250, SFT = 43, RD = 192.0.2.2/2]

  SFP6:  RD = 198.51.100.1/106, SPI = 20,
         Assoc-Type = 1, Assoc-RD = 198.51.100.1/105, Assoc-SPI = 19,
         [SI = 254, SFT = 43, RD = 192.0.2.2/2],
         [SI = 249, SFT = 41, RD = 192.0.2.1/1]

This example demonstrates correlation of two SFPs to form a bidirectional SFP, as described in
Section 7.1.

Two SFPRs are advertised by the controller. They have diﬀerent SPIs (19 and 20), so they are
known to be separate SFPs, but they both have Association TLVs with Association Type set to 1,
indicating bidirectional SFPs. Each has an "Associated SFPR-RD" ﬁeld containing the value of the
other SFPR-RD to correlate the two SFPs as a bidirectional pair.

As can be seen from the SFPRs in this example, the paths are symmetric: the hops in SFP5 appear
in the reverse order in SFP6.

8.6.  Example Correlated Asymmetrical Bidirectional SFPs

  SFP7:  RD = 198.51.100.1/107, SPI = 21,
         Assoc-Type = 1, Assoc-RD = 198.51.100.1/108, Assoc-SPI = 22,
         [SI = 255, SFT = 41, RD = 192.0.2.1/1],
         [SI = 250, SFT = 43, RD = 192.0.2.2/2]

  SFP8:  RD = 198.51.100.1/108, SPI = 22,
         Assoc-Type = 1, Assoc-RD = 198.51.100.1/107, Assoc-SPI = 21,
         [SI = 254, SFT = 44, RD = 192.0.2.4/6],
         [SI = 249, SFT = 41, RD = 192.0.2.1/1]

Asymmetric bidirectional SFPs can also be created. This example shows a pair of SFPs with
distinct SPIs (21 and 22) that are correlated in the same way as in the example in Section 8.5.

However, unlike in that example, the SFPs are diﬀerent in each direction. Both paths include a
hop of SF Type 41, but SFP7 includes a hop of SF Type 43 supported at SFF2, while SFP8 includes
a hop of SF Type 44 supported at SFF4.

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 37

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

8.7.  Example Looping in an SFP

   SFP9:  RD = 198.51.100.1/109, SPI = 23,
          [SI = 255, SFT = 41, RD = 192.0.2.1/1],
          [SI = 250, SFT = 44, RD = 192.0.2.4/5],
          [SI = 245, {SFT = 1, RD = {SPI=23, SI=255, Rsv=0},
                      SFT = 42, RD = 192.0.2.3/7 } ]

Looping and jumping are described in Section 6. This example shows an SFP that contains an
explicit loop-back instruction that is presented as a choice within an SFP hop.

The ﬁrst two hops in the path (SI = 255 and SI = 250) are normal. That is, the packets will be
delivered to SFF1 and SFF4 in turn for execution of SFs of Type 41 and 44, respectively.

The third hop (SI = 245) presents SFF4 with a choice of next hop. It can either forward the packets
to SFF3 for an SF of Type 42 (the second choice) or it can loop back.

The loop-back entry in the SFPR for SI = 245 is indicated by the special-purpose SFT value 1
("Change Sequence"). Within this hop, the RD is interpreted as encoding the SPI and SI of the next
hop (see Section 6.1). In this case, the SPI is 23, which indicates that this is a loop or branch, i.e.,
the next hop is on the same SFP. The SI is set to 255; this is a higher number than the current SI
(245), indicating a loop.

SFF4 must make a choice between these two next hops. The packet will be either forwarded to
SFF3 with the NSH SI decreased to 245 or looped back to SFF1 with the NSH SI reset to 255. This
choice will be made according to local policy, information passed back by the local SFI, and
details in the packets' metadata that are used to prevent inﬁnite looping.

8.8.  Example Branching in an SFP

   SFP10:  RD = 198.51.100.1/110, SPI = 24,
          [SI = 254, SFT = 42, RD = 192.0.2.3/7],
          [SI = 249, SFT = 43, RD = 192.0.2.2/2]

   SFP11:  RD = 198.51.100.1/111, SPI = 25,
          [SI = 255, SFT = 41, RD = 192.0.2.1/1],
          [SI = 250, SFT = 1, RD = {SPI=24, SI=254, Rsv=0}]

Branching follows a similar procedure to that for looping (and jumping), as shown in Section 8.7.
However, there are two SFPs involved.

SFP10 shows a normal path with packets forwarded to SFF3 and SFF2 for execution of service
functions of Type 42 and 43, respectively.

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 38

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

SFP11 starts as normal (SFF1 for an SF of Type 41), but then SFF1 processes the next hop in the
path and ﬁnds a "Change Sequence" special-purpose SFT. The "SFIR-RD" ﬁeld includes an SPI of
24, which indicates SFP10, not the current SFP. The SI in the SFIR-RD is 254, so SFF1 knows that it
must set the SPI/SI in the NSH to 24/254 and send the packets to the appropriate SFF, as
advertised in the SFPR for SFP10 (that is, SFF3).

8.9.  Examples of SFPs with Stateful Service Functions

This section provides some examples to demonstrate establishing SFPs when there is a choice of
service functions at a particular hop, and where consistency of choice is required in both
directions. The scenarios that give rise to this requirement are discussed in Section 7.2.

8.9.1.  Forward and Reverse Choice Made at the SFF

Consider the topology shown in Figure 12. There are three SFFs arranged neatly in a line, and the
middle one (SFF2) supports three SFIs all of SFT 42. These three instances can be used by SFF2 to
load balance so that no one instance is swamped.

                ------     ------   ------   ------    ------
               | SFI  |   | SFIa | | SFIb | | SFIc |  | SFI  |
               |SFT=41|   |SFT=42| |SFT=42| |SFT=42|  |SFT=43|
                ------     ------\  ------  /------    ------
                     \            \   |    /           /
                    ---------     ---------     ---------
      ----------   |   SFF1  |   |   SFF2  |   |   SFF3  |
 --> |          |..|192.0.2.1|...|192.0.2.2|...|192.0.2.3|-->
 --> |Classifier|   ---------     ---------     ---------
     |          |
      ----------

Figure 12: Example Where Choice Is Made at the SFF

This leads to the following SFIRs being advertised.

   RD = 192.0.2.1/11, SFT = 41
   RD = 192.0.2.2/11, SFT = 42  (for SFIa)
   RD = 192.0.2.2/12, SFT = 42  (for SFIb)
   RD = 192.0.2.2/13, SFT = 42  (for SFIc)
   RD = 192.0.2.3/11, SFT = 43

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 39

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

The controller can create a single forward SFP (SFP12), giving SFF2 the choice of which SFI to use
to provide a function of SFT 42, as follows. The load-balancing choice between the three available
SFIs is assumed to be within the capabilities of the SFF, and if the SFs are stateful, it is assumed
that the SFF knows this and arranges load balancing in a stable, ﬂow-dependent way.

   SFP12:  RD = 198.51.100.1/112, SPI = 26,
         Assoc-Type = 1, Assoc-RD = 198.51.100.1/113, Assoc-SPI = 27,
          [SI = 255, SFT = 41, RD = 192.0.2.1/11],
          [SI = 254, SFT = 42, {RD = 192.0.2.2/11,
                                     192.0.2.2/12,
                                     192.0.2.2/13 }],
          [SI = 253, SFT = 43, RD = 192.0.2.3/11]

The reverse SFP (SFP13) in this case may also be created as shown below, using association with
the forward SFP and giving the load-balancing choice to SFF2. This is safe, even in the case that
the SFs of Type 42 are stateful, because SFF2 is doing the load balancing in both directions and
can apply the same algorithm to ensure that packets associated with the same ﬂow use the same
SFI regardless of the direction of travel.

   SFP13:  RD = 198.51.100.1/113, SPI = 27,
         Assoc-Type = 1, Assoc-RD = 198.51.100.1/112, Assoc-SPI = 26,
          [SI = 255, SFT = 43, RD = 192.0.2.3/11],
          [SI = 254, SFT = 42, {RD = 192.0.2.2/11,
                                     192.0.2.2/12,
                                     192.0.2.2/13 }],
          [SI = 253, SFT = 41, RD = 192.0.2.1/11]

How an SFF knows that an attached SFI is stateful is out of the scope of this document. It is
assumed that this will form part of the process by which SFIs are registered as local to SFFs.
Section 7.2 provides additional observations about the coordination of the use of stateful SFIs in
the case of bidirectional SFPs.

In general, the problems of load balancing and the selection of the same SFIs in both directions of
a bidirectional SFP can be addressed by using suﬃciently precisely speciﬁed SFPs (specifying the
exact SFIs to use) and suitable programming of the classiﬁers at each end of the SFPs to make
sure that the matching pair of SFPs are used.

8.9.2.  Parallel End-to-End SFPs with Shared SFF

The mechanism described in Section 8.9.1 might not be desirable because of the functional
assumptions it places on SFF2 to be able to load balance with suitable ﬂow identiﬁcation,
stability, and equality in both directions. Instead, it may be desirable to place the responsibility
for ﬂow classiﬁcation in the classiﬁer and let it determine load balancing with the implied choice
of SFIs.

Consider the network graph as shown in Figure 12 and with the same set of SFIRs as listed in
Section 8.9.1. In this case, the controller could specify three forward SFPs with their
corresponding associated reverse SFPs. Each bidirectional pair of SFPs uses a diﬀerent SFI for the

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 40

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

SF of Type 42. The controller can instruct the classiﬁer how to place traﬃc on the three
bidirectional SFPs, or it can treat them as a group, leaving the classiﬁer responsible for balancing
the load.

   SFP14:  RD = 198.51.100.1/114, SPI = 28,
         Assoc-Type = 1, Assoc-RD = 198.51.100.1/117, Assoc-SPI = 31,
          [SI = 255, SFT = 41, RD = 192.0.2.1/11],
          [SI = 254, SFT = 42, RD = 192.0.2.2/11],
          [SI = 253, SFT = 43, RD = 192.0.2.3/11]

   SFP15:  RD = 198.51.100.1/115, SPI = 29,
         Assoc-Type = 1, Assoc-RD = 198.51.100.1/118, Assoc-SPI = 32,
          [SI = 255, SFT = 41, RD = 192.0.2.1/11],
          [SI = 254, SFT = 42, RD = 192.0.2.2/12],
          [SI = 253, SFT = 43, RD = 192.0.2.3/11]

   SFP16:  RD = 198.51.100.1/116, SPI = 30,
         Assoc-Type = 1, Assoc-RD = 198.51.100.1/119, Assoc-SPI = 33,
          [SI = 255, SFT = 41, RD = 192.0.2.1/11],
          [SI = 254, SFT = 42, RD = 192.0.2.2/13],
          [SI = 253, SFT = 43, RD = 192.0.2.3/11]

   SFP17:  RD = 198.51.100.1/117, SPI = 31,
         Assoc-Type = 1, Assoc-RD = 198.51.100.1/114, Assoc-SPI = 28,
          [SI = 255, SFT = 43, RD = 192.0.2.3/11],
          [SI = 254, SFT = 42, RD = 192.0.2.2/11],
          [SI = 253, SFT = 41, RD = 192.0.2.1/11]

   SFP18:  RD = 198.51.100.1/118, SPI = 32,
         Assoc-Type = 1, Assoc-RD = 198.51.100.1/115, Assoc-SPI = 29,
          [SI = 255, SFT = 43, RD = 192.0.2.3/11],
          [SI = 254, SFT = 42, RD = 192.0.2.2/12],
          [SI = 253, SFT = 41, RD = 192.0.2.1/11]

   SFP19:  RD = 198.51.100.1/119, SPI = 33,
         Assoc-Type = 1, Assoc-RD = 198.51.100.1/116, Assoc-SPI = 30,
          [SI = 255, SFT = 43, RD = 192.0.2.3/11],
          [SI = 254, SFT = 42, RD = 192.0.2.2/13],
          [SI = 253, SFT = 41, RD = 192.0.2.1/11]

8.9.3.  Parallel End-to-End SFPs with Separate SFFs

While the examples in Sections 8.9.1 and 8.9.2 place the choice of SFI as subtended from the same
SFF, it is also possible that the SFIs are each subtended from a diﬀerent SFF, as shown in Figure
13. In this case, it is harder to coordinate the choices for forward and reverse paths without some
form of coordination between SFF1 and SFF3. Therefore, it would be normal to consider end-to-
end parallel SFPs, as described in Section 8.9.2.

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 41

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

                                     ------
                                    | SFIa |
                                    |SFT=42|
                                     ------
                      ------           |
                     | SFI  |      ---------
                     |SFT=41|     |   SFF5  |
                      ------    ..|192.0.2.5|..
                        |     ..:  ---------  :..
                    ---------.:                 :.---------
      ----------   |   SFF1  |     ---------     |   SFF3  |
 --> |          |..|192.0.2.1|....|   SFF6  |....|192.0.2.3| -->
 --> |Classifier|   ---------:    |192.0.2.6|    :---------
     |          |            :     ---------     :    |
      ----------             :         |         :  ------
                             :       ------      : | SFI  |
                             :..    | SFIb |   ..: |SFT=43|
                               :..  |SFT=42| ..:    ------
                                 :   ------  :
                                 :.---------.:
                                  |   SFF7  |
                                  |192.0.2.7|
                                   ---------
                                       |
                                     ------
                                    | SFIc |
                                    |SFT=42|
                                     ------

Figure 13: Second Example with Parallel End-to-End SFPs

In this case, ﬁve SFIRs are advertised as follows:

   RD = 192.0.2.1/11, SFT = 41
   RD = 192.0.2.5/11, SFT = 42  (for SFIa)
   RD = 192.0.2.6/11, SFT = 42  (for SFIb)
   RD = 192.0.2.7/11, SFT = 42  (for SFIc)
   RD = 192.0.2.3/11, SFT = 43

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 42

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

In this case, the controller could specify three forward SFPs with their corresponding associated
reverse SFPs. Each bidirectional pair of SFPs uses a diﬀerent SFF and SFI for the middle hop (for
an SF of Type 42). The controller can instruct the classiﬁer how to place traﬃc on the three
bidirectional SFPs, or it can treat them as a group, leaving the classiﬁer responsible for balancing
the load.

   SFP20:  RD = 198.51.100.1/120, SPI = 34,
         Assoc-Type = 1, Assoc-RD = 198.51.100.1/123, Assoc-SPI = 37,
          [SI = 255, SFT = 41, RD = 192.0.2.1/11],
          [SI = 254, SFT = 42, RD = 192.0.2.5/11],
          [SI = 253, SFT = 43, RD = 192.0.2.3/11]

   SFP21:  RD = 198.51.100.1/121, SPI = 35,
         Assoc-Type = 1, Assoc-RD = 198.51.100.1/124, Assoc-SPI = 38,
          [SI = 255, SFT = 41, RD = 192.0.2.1/11],
          [SI = 254, SFT = 42, RD = 192.0.2.6/11],
          [SI = 253, SFT = 43, RD = 192.0.2.3/11]

   SFP22:  RD = 198.51.100.1/122, SPI = 36,
         Assoc-Type = 1, Assoc-RD = 198.51.100.1/125, Assoc-SPI = 39,
          [SI = 255, SFT = 41, RD = 192.0.2.1/11],
          [SI = 254, SFT = 42, RD = 192.0.2.7/11],
          [SI = 253, SFT = 43, RD = 192.0.2.3/11]

   SFP23:  RD = 198.51.100.1/123, SPI = 37,
         Assoc-Type = 1, Assoc-RD = 198.51.100.1/120, Assoc-SPI = 34,
          [SI = 255, SFT = 43, RD = 192.0.2.3/11],
          [SI = 254, SFT = 42, RD = 192.0.2.5/11],
          [SI = 253, SFT = 41, RD = 192.0.2.1/11]

   SFP24:  RD = 198.51.100.1/124, SPI = 38,
         Assoc-Type = 1, Assoc-RD = 198.51.100.1/121, Assoc-SPI = 35,
          [SI = 255, SFT = 43, RD = 192.0.2.3/11],
          [SI = 254, SFT = 42, RD = 192.0.2.6/11],
          [SI = 253, SFT = 41, RD = 192.0.2.1/11]

   SFP25:  RD = 198.51.100.1/125, SPI = 39,
         Assoc-Type = 1, Assoc-RD = 198.51.100.1/122, Assoc-SPI = 36,
          [SI = 255, SFT = 43, RD = 192.0.2.3/11],
          [SI = 254, SFT = 42, RD = 192.0.2.7/11],
          [SI = 253, SFT = 41, RD = 192.0.2.1/11]

8.9.4.  Parallel SFPs Downstream of the Choice

The mechanism of parallel SFPs demonstrated in Section 8.9.3 is perfectly functional and may be
practical in many environments. However, there may be scaling concerns because of the large
amount of state (knowledge of SFPs -- i.e., SFPR advertisements retained) if there is a very large
number of possible SFIs (for example, tens of instances of the same stateful SF) or if there are
multiple choices of stateful SF along a path. This situation may be mitigated using SFP fragments
that are combined to form the end-to-end SFPs.

The example presented here is necessarily simplistic but should convey the basic principle. The
example presented in Figure 14 is similar to that in Section 8.9.3 but with an additional ﬁrst hop.

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 43

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

                                          ------
                                         | SFIa |
                                         |SFT=43|
                                          ------
               ------      ------           |
              | SFI  |    | SFI  |      ---------
              |SFT=41|    |SFT=42|     |   SFF5  |
               ------      ------    ..|192.0.2.5|..
                 |           |     ..:  ---------  :..
             ---------   ---------.:                 :.---------
    ------  |   SFF1  | |   SFF2  |     ---------     |   SFF3  |
-->|Class-|.|192.0.2.1|.|192.0.2.2|....|   SFF6  |....|192.0.2.3|-->
-->| ifier|  ---------   ---------:    |192.0.2.6|    :---------
    ------                        :     ---------     :    |
                                  :         |         :  ------
                                  :       ------      : | SFI  |
                                  :..    | SFIb |   ..: |SFT=44|
                                    :..  |SFT=43| ..:    ------
                                      :   ------  :
                                      :.---------.:
                                       |   SFF7  |
                                       |192.0.2.7|
                                        ---------
                                            |
                                          ------
                                         | SFIc |
                                         |SFT=43|
                                          ------

Figure 14: Example with Parallel SFPs Downstream of Choice

The six SFIs are advertised as follows:

   RD = 192.0.2.1/11, SFT = 41
   RD = 192.0.2.2/11, SFT = 42
   RD = 192.0.2.5/11, SFT = 43  (for SFIa)
   RD = 192.0.2.6/11, SFT = 43  (for SFIb)
   RD = 192.0.2.7/11, SFT = 43  (for SFIc)
   RD = 192.0.2.3/11, SFT = 44

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 44

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

SFF2 is the point at which a load-balancing choice must be made. So "tail-end" SFPs are
constructed as follows. Each takes in a diﬀerent SFF that provides access to an SF of Type 43.

   SFP26:  RD = 198.51.100.1/126, SPI = 40,
         Assoc-Type = 1, Assoc-RD = 198.51.100.1/130, Assoc-SPI = 44,
          [SI = 255, SFT = 43, RD = 192.0.2.5/11],
          [SI = 254, SFT = 44, RD = 192.0.2.3/11]

   SFP27:  RD = 198.51.100.1/127, SPI = 41,
         Assoc-Type = 1, Assoc-RD = 198.51.100.1/131, Assoc-SPI = 45,
          [SI = 255, SFT = 43, RD = 192.0.2.6/11],
          [SI = 254, SFT = 44, RD = 192.0.2.3/11]

   SFP28:  RD = 198.51.100.1/128, SPI = 42,
         Assoc-Type = 1, Assoc-RD = 198.51.100.1/132, Assoc-SPI = 46,
          [SI = 255, SFT = 43, RD = 192.0.2.7/11],
          [SI = 254, SFT = 44, RD = 192.0.2.3/11]

Now an end-to-end SFP with load-balancing choice can be constructed as follows. The choice
made by SFF2 is expressed in terms of entering one of the three "tail-end" SFPs.

   SFP29:  RD = 198.51.100.1/129, SPI = 43,
          [SI = 255, SFT = 41, RD = 192.0.2.1/11],
          [SI = 254, SFT = 42, RD = 192.0.2.2/11],
          [SI = 253, {SFT = 1, RD = {SPI=40, SI=255, Rsv=0},
                               RD = {SPI=41, SI=255, Rsv=0},
                               RD = {SPI=42, SI=255, Rsv=0} } ]

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 45

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

Now, despite the load-balancing choice being made elsewhere than at the initial classiﬁer, it is
possible for the reverse SFPs to be well constructed without any ambiguity. The three reverse
paths appear as follows.

   SFP30:  RD = 198.51.100.1/130, SPI = 44,
         Assoc-Type = 1, Assoc-RD = 198.51.100.1/126, Assoc-SPI = 40,
          [SI = 255, SFT = 44, RD = 192.0.2.4/11],
          [SI = 254, SFT = 43, RD = 192.0.2.5/11],
          [SI = 253, SFT = 42, RD = 192.0.2.2/11],
          [SI = 252, SFT = 41, RD = 192.0.2.1/11]

   SFP31:  RD = 198.51.100.1/131, SPI = 45,
         Assoc-Type = 1, Assoc-RD = 198.51.100.1/127, Assoc-SPI = 41,
          [SI = 255, SFT = 44, RD = 192.0.2.4/11],
          [SI = 254, SFT = 43, RD = 192.0.2.6/11],
          [SI = 253, SFT = 42, RD = 192.0.2.2/11],
          [SI = 252, SFT = 41, RD = 192.0.2.1/11]

   SFP32:  RD = 198.51.100.1/132, SPI = 46,
         Assoc-Type = 1, Assoc-RD = 198.51.100.1/128, Assoc-SPI = 42,
          [SI = 255, SFT = 44, RD = 192.0.2.4/11],
          [SI = 254, SFT = 43, RD = 192.0.2.7/11],
          [SI = 253, SFT = 42, RD = 192.0.2.2/11],
          [SI = 252, SFT = 41, RD = 192.0.2.1/11]

8.10.  Examples Using IPv6 Addressing

This section provides several examples using IPv6 addressing. As will be seen from the examples,
there is nothing special or clever about using IPv6 addressing rather than IPv4 addressing.

The reference network for these IPv6 examples is based on that described at the top of Section 8
and shown in Figure 11.

Assume we have a service function overlay network with four SFFs (SFF1, SFF3, SFF3, and SFF4).
The SFFs have addresses in the underlay network as follows:

      SFF1 2001:db8::192:0:2:1
      SFF2 2001:db8::192:0:2:2
      SFF3 2001:db8::192:0:2:3
      SFF4 2001:db8::192:0:2:4

Each SFF provides access to some SFIs from the four service function types SFT=41, SFT=42,
SFT=43, and SFT=44, just as before:

      SFF1 SFT=41 and SFT=42
      SFF2 SFT=41 and SFT=43
      SFF3 SFT=42 and SFT=44
      SFF4 SFT=43 and SFT=44

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 46

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

The service function network also contains a controller with address 2001:db8::198:51:100:1.

This example service function overlay network is shown in Figure 15.

       ------------------------
      |       Controller       |
      | 2001:db8::198:51:100:1 |
       ------------------------
                    ------     ------        ------     ------
                   | SFI  |   | SFI  |      | SFI  |   | SFI  |
                   |SFT=41|   |SFT=42|      |SFT=41|   |SFT=43|
                    ------     ------        ------     ------
                         \     /                  \     /
                    -------------------     -------------------
                   |       SFF1        |   |       SFF2        |
                   |2001:db8::192:0:2:1|   |2001:db8::192:0:2:2|
                    -------------------     -------------------
               ----------
   Packet --> |          |                                    -->
   Flows  --> |Classifier|                                    -->Dest
              |          |                                    -->
               ----------
                   -------------------      -------------------
                  |       SFF3        |    |       SFF4        |
                  |2001:db8::192:0:2:3|    |2001:db8::192:0:2:4|
                   -------------------      -------------------
                         /     \                  /     \
                    ------     ------        ------     ------
                   | SFI  |   | SFI  |      | SFI  |   | SFI  |
                   |SFT=42|   |SFT=44|      |SFT=43|   |SFT=44|
                    ------     ------        ------     ------

Figure 15: Example Service Function Overlay Network

The SFFs advertise routes to the SFIs they support. These advertisements contain RDs that are set
according to the network operator's conﬁguration model. Note that in an IPv6 network, the RD is
not large enough to contain the full IPv6 address, as only six octets are available. So, in all of
these IPv6 examples, we use RDs of Type 1 such that the available six octets are partitioned as
four octets for an IPv4 address of the advertising SFF, and two octets that are a local index of the
SFI. Furthermore, we have chosen an IPv6 addressing scheme so that the low-order four octets of
the IPv6 address match an IPv4 address of the advertising node. This scheme is chosen purely for
convenience of documentation, and an operator is totally free to use any other scheme so long as
it conforms to the deﬁnitions of SFIR and SFPR in Sections 3.1 and 3.2.

Observant readers will notice that this makes the BGP advertisements shown in these examples
exactly the same as in the previous examples. All that is diﬀerent is that the advertising SFFs and
controller have IPv6 addresses.

Thus, we see the following SFIRs advertised.

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 47

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

The SFFs advertise routes to the SFIs they support. So we see the following SFIRs:

      RD = 192.0.2.1/1, SFT = 41
      RD = 192.0.2.1/2, SFT = 42
      RD = 192.0.2.2/1, SFT = 41
      RD = 192.0.2.2/2, SFT = 43
      RD = 192.0.2.3/7, SFT = 42
      RD = 192.0.2.3/8, SFT = 44
      RD = 192.0.2.4/5, SFT = 43
      RD = 192.0.2.4/6, SFT = 44

Note that the addressing used for communicating between SFFs is taken from the tunnel
encapsulation attribute of the SFIR and not from the SFIR-RD.

8.10.1.  Example Explicit SFP with No Choices

Consider the following SFPR similar to that in Section 8.1.

      SFP1:  RD = 198.51.100.1/101, SPI = 15,
             [SI = 255, SFT = 41, RD = 192.0.2.1/1],
             [SI = 250, SFT = 43, RD = 192.0.2.2/2]

The SFP consists of an SF of Type 41 located at SFF1, followed by an SF of Type 43 located at SFF2.
This path is fully explicit, and each SFF is oﬀered no choice in forwarding a packet along the
path.

SFF1 will receive packets on the path from the classiﬁer and will identify the path from the SPI
(15). The initial SI will be 255, and so SFF1 will deliver the packets to the SFI for SFT 41.

When the packets are returned to SFF1 by the SFI, the SI will be decreased to 250 for the next
hop. SFF1 has no ﬂexibility in the choice of SFF to support the next-hop SFI and will forward the
packet to SFF2, which will send the packets to the SFI that supports SFT 43 before forwarding the
packets to their destinations.

8.10.2.  Example SFP with Choice of SFIs

      SFP2:  RD = 198.51.100.1/102, SPI = 16,
             [SI = 255, SFT = 41, RD = 192.0.2.1/1],
             [SI = 250, SFT = 43, {RD = 192.0.2.2/2,
                                   RD = 192.0.2.4/5 } ]

In this example, like that in Section 8.2, the path also consists of an SF of Type 41 located at SFF1,
and this is followed by an SF of Type 43; but in this case, the SI = 250 contains a choice between
the SFI located at SFF2 and the SFI located at SFF4.

SFF1 will receive packets on the path from the classiﬁer and will identify the path from the SPI
(16). The initial SI will be 255, and so SFF1 will deliver the packets to the SFI for SFT 41.

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 48

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

When the packets are returned to SFF1 by the SFI, the SI will be decreased to 250 for the next
hop. SFF1 now has a choice of next-hop SFFs to execute the next hop in the path. It can either
forward packets to SFF2 or SFF4 to execute a function of Type 43. It uses its local load-balancing
algorithm to make this choice. The chosen SFF will send the packets to the SFI that supports SFT
43 before forwarding the packets to their destinations.

8.10.3.  Example SFP with Open Choice of SFIs

      SFP3:  RD = 198.51.100.1/103, SPI = 17,
             [SI = 255, SFT = 41, RD = 192.0.2.1/1],
             [SI = 250, SFT = 44, RD = 0]

In this example, like that in Section 8.3, the path also consists of an SF of Type 41 located at SFF1,
and this is followed by an SI with an RD of zero and SF of Type 44. This means that a choice can
be made between any SFF that supports an SFI of Type 44.

SFF1 will receive packets on the path from the classiﬁer and will identify the path from the SPI
(17). The initial SI will be 255, and so SFF1 will deliver the packets to the SFI for SFT 41.

When the packets are returned to SFF1 by the SFI, the SI will be decreased to 250 for the next
hop. SFF1 now has a free choice of next-hop SFFs to execute the next hop in the path, selecting
between all SFFs that support SFs of Type 44. Looking at the SFIRs it has received, SFF1 knows
that SF Type 44 is supported by SFF3 and SFF4. SFF1 uses its local load-balancing algorithm to
make this choice. The chosen SFF will send the packets to the SFI that supports SFT 44 before
forwarding the packets to their destinations.

8.10.4.  Example SFP with Choice of SFTs

      SFP4:  RD = 198.51.100.1/104, SPI = 18,
             [SI = 255, SFT = 41, RD = 192.0.2.1/1],
             [SI = 250, {SFT = 43, RD = 192.0.2.2/2,
                         SFT = 44, RD = 192.0.2.3/8 } ]

This example, similar to that in Section 8.4, provides a choice of SF type in the second hop in the
path. The SI of 250 indicates a choice between SF Type 43 located through SF2 and SF Type 44
located at SF3.

SFF1 will receive packets on the path from the classiﬁer and will identify the path from the SPI
(18). The initial SI will be 255, and so SFF1 will deliver the packets to the SFI for SFT 41.

When the packets are returned to SFF1 by the SFI, the SI will be decreased to 250 for the next
hop. SFF1 now has a free choice of next-hop SFFs to execute the next hop in the path, selecting
between all SFFs that support an SF of Type 43 and SFF3, which supports an SF of Type 44. These
may be completely diﬀerent functions that are to be executed dependent on speciﬁc conditions,
or they may be similar functions identiﬁed with diﬀerent type identiﬁers (such as ﬁrewalls from
diﬀerent vendors). SFF1 uses its local policy and load-balancing algorithm to make this choice,

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 49

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

and it may use additional information passed back from the local SFI to help inform its selection.
The chosen SFF will send the packets to the SFI that supports the chosen SFT before forwarding
the packets to their destinations.

9.  Security Considerations

The mechanisms in this document use BGP for the control plane. Hence, techniques such as those
discussed in
between BGP peers, making it harder to spoof updates (which could be used to install bogus SFPs
or advertise false SIs) or withdrawals.

 can be used to help authenticate BGP sessions and, thus, the messages

[RFC5925]

Further discussion of security considerations for BGP may be found in the BGP speciﬁcation itself
[RFC4271]
inappropriateness of the TCP MD5 signature option for protecting BGP sessions.
includes an analysis of BGP keying and authentication issues.

 and the security analysis for BGP

 contains a discussion of the

[RFC4272] [RFC5925]
.

[RFC6952]

Additionally, this document depends on other documents that specify BGP Multiprotocol
Extensions and the documents that deﬁne the attributes that are carried by BGP UPDATEs of the
SFC AFI/SAFI.
security issues inherent in the existing BGP. Relevant additional security measures are
considered in

 observes that the use of AFI/SAFI does not change the underlying

[RFC4760]

[RFC9012]

.

This document does not fundamentally change the security behavior of BGP deployments, which
depend considerably on the network operator's perception of risk in their network. It may be
observed that the application of the mechanisms described in this document is scoped to a single
domain, as implied by
 and noted in Section 2.1 of this document. Applicability of BGP
within a single domain may enable a network operator to make easier and more consistent
decisions about what security measures to apply, and the domain boundary, which BGP enforces
by deﬁnition, provides a safeguard that prevents leakage of SFC programming in either direction
at the boundary.

[RFC8300]

Service function chaining provides a signiﬁcant attack opportunity; packets can be diverted from
their normal paths through the network, packets can be made to execute unexpected functions,
and the functions that are instantiated in software can be subverted. However, this speciﬁcation
does not change the existence of service function chaining, and security issues speciﬁc to service
function chaining are covered in

.
[RFC8300]

[RFC7665]

 and

This document deﬁnes a control plane for service function chaining. Clearly, this provides an
attack vector for a service function chaining system, as an attack on this control plane could be
used to make the system misbehave. Thus, the security of the BGP system is critically important
to the security of the whole service function chaining system. The control plane mechanisms are
very similar to those used for BGP/MPLS IP VPNs as described in
considerations in that document (Section 13) provide good guidance for securing service function
chaining systems reliant on this speciﬁcation. Of particular relevance is the need to securely
distinguish between messages intended for the control of diﬀerent SFC overlays, which is similar
to the need to distinguish between diﬀerent VPNs.
guidance on the use of BGP in a similar environment.

Section 19 of [RFC7432]

 also provides useful

, and so the security

[RFC4364]

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 50

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

Note that a component of a service function chaining system that uses the procedures described
in this document also requires communications between a controller and the service function
chaining network elements (speciﬁcally the SFFs and classiﬁers). This communication covers
instructing the classiﬁers using BGP mechanisms (see Section 7.4); therefore, the use of BGP
security is strongly recommended. But it also covers other mechanisms for programming the
classiﬁer and instructing the SFFs and SFs (for example, to bind SFs to an SFF, and to cause the
establishment of tunnels between SFFs). This document does not cover these latter mechanisms,
and so their security is out of scope, but it should be noted that these communications provide an
attack vector on the service function chaining system, and so attention must be paid to ensuring
that they are secure.

There is an intrinsic assumption in service function chaining systems that nodes that announce
support for speciﬁc SFs actually oﬀer those functions and that SFs are not, themselves, attacked
or subverted. This is particularly important when the SFs are implemented as software that can
be updated. Protection against this sort of concern forms part of the security of any service
function chaining system and so is outside the scope of the control plane mechanisms described
in this document.

Similarly, there is a vulnerability if a rogue or subverted controller announces SFPs, especially if
that controller "takes over" an existing SFP and changes its contents. This corresponds to a rogue
BGP speaker entering a routing system, or even a Route Reﬂector becoming subverted. Protection
mechanisms, as above, include securing BGP sessions and protecting software loads on the
controllers.

In an environment where there is concern that rogue controllers might be introduced to the
network and inject false SFPRs or take over and change existing SFPRs, it is
RECOMMENDED
each SFF and classiﬁer be conﬁgured with the identities of authorized controllers. Thus, the
announcement of an SFPR by any other BGP peer would be rejected.

 that

Lastly, note that Section 3.2.2 makes two operational suggestions that have implications for the
stability and security of the mechanisms described in this document:

•

That modiﬁcations to active SFPs not be made.

•

That SPIs not be immediately reused.

10.  IANA Considerations

10.1.  New BGP AF/SAFI

IANA maintains the "Address Family Numbers" registry. IANA has assigned a new Address Family
Number from the "Standards Action" range called "BGP SFC" (31), with this document as a
reference.

IANA maintains the "Subsequent Address Family Identiﬁers (SAFI) Parameters" registry. IANA
has assigned a new SAFI value from the "Standards Action" range called "BGP SFC" (9), with this
document as a reference.

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 51

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

10.2.  "SFP attribute" BGP Path Attribute

IANA maintains a registry of "Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) Parameters" with a subregistry of
"BGP Path Attributes". IANA has assigned a new Path attribute called "SFP attribute" with a value
of 37 and with this document as a reference.

10.3.  "SFP Attribute TLVs" Registry

IANA maintains a registry of "Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) Parameters". IANA has created a
new subregistry called the "SFP Attribute TLVs" registry.

Valid values are in the range 0 to 65535.

•

Values 0 and 65535 are marked "Reserved".

•

Values 1 through 65534 are to be assigned according to the "First Come First Served" policy
[RFC8126]

.

This document is a reference for this registry.

The registry tracks:

•

Type

•

Name

•

Reference

•

Registration Date

The registry is initially populated as follows:

Type Name

Reference

Registration Date

1

2

3

4

5

Association TLV

RFC 9015

2020-09-02

Hop TLV

SFT TLV

RFC 9015

2020-09-02

RFC 9015

2020-09-02

MPLS Swapping/Stacking

RFC 9015

2020-09-02

SFP Traversal With MPLS

RFC 9015

2020-09-02

Table 1: SFP Attribute TLVs Subregistry Initial Contents

10.4.  "SFP Association Type" Registry

IANA maintains a registry of "Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) Parameters". IANA has created a
new subregistry called the "SFP Association Type" registry.

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 52

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

Valid values are in the range 0 to 65535.

•

Values 0 and 65535 are marked "Reserved".

•

Values 1 through 65534 are assigned according to the "First Come First Served" policy
[RFC8126]

.

This document is given as a reference for this registry.

The new registry tracks:

•

Association Type

•

Name

•

Reference

•

Registration Date

The registry should initially be populated as follows:

Association Type Name

Reference Date

1

Bidirectional SFP

RFC 9015

2020-09-02

Table 2: SFP Association Type Subregistry Initial Contents

10.5.  "Service Function Chaining Service Function Types" Registry

IANA has created a new top-level registry called "Service Function Chaining Service Function
Types".

Valid values are in the range 0 to 65535.

•

Values 0 and 65535 are marked "Reserved".

•

Values 1 through 31 are to be assigned by "Standards Action"
as the "special-purpose SFT values".

[RFC8126]

 and are referred to

•

Values 32 through 64495 are to be assigned according to the "First Come First Served" policy
[RFC8126]

.

•

Values 64496 through 65534 are for Private Use and are not to be recorded by IANA.

This document is given as a reference for this registry.

The registry tracks:

•

Value

•

Name

•

Reference

•

Registration Date

The registry is initially populated as follows.

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 53

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

Value

Name

0

1

Reserved

Change Sequence

2-31

Unassigned

Reference

RFC 9015

RFC 9015

Date

2020-09-02

2020-09-02

32

33

34

35

36

37

38

39

40

41

42

43

44

45

46

47

Classiﬁer

Firewall

RFC 9015,

[BGP-LS-SR]

2020-09-02

RFC 9015,

[BGP-LS-SR]

2020-09-02

Load balancer

RFC 9015,

[BGP-LS-SR]

2020-09-02

Deep packet inspection
engine

RFC 9015,

[BGP-LS-SR]

2020-09-02

Penalty box

RFC 9015,

[RFC8300]

2020-09-02

WAN accelerator

RFC 9015,
[RFC8300]

[RFC7665]

,

2020-09-02

Application accelerator

RFC 9015,

[RFC7665]

2020-09-02

TCP optimizer

RFC 9015,

[RFC7665]

2020-09-02

Network Address Translator

RFC 9015,

[RFC7665]

2020-09-02

NAT44

NAT64

NPTv6

RFC 9015,
[RFC3022]

RFC 9015,
[RFC6146]

RFC 9015,
[RFC6296]

[RFC7665]

,

2020-09-02

[RFC7665]

,

2020-09-02

[RFC7665]

,

2020-09-02

Lawful intercept

RFC 9015,

[RFC7665]

2020-09-02

HOST_ID injection

RFC 9015,

[RFC7665]

2020-09-02

HTTP header enrichment

RFC 9015,

[RFC7665]

2020-09-02

Caching engine

RFC 9015,

[RFC7665]

2020-09-02

48-64495

Unassigned

64496-65534

Reserved for Private Use

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 54

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

Value

65535

Name

Reference

Reserved, not to be allocated

RFC 9015

Date

2020-09-02

Table 3: Service Function Chaining Service Function Types Registry Initial Contents

10.6.  Flow Speciﬁcation for SFC Classiﬁers

IANA maintains a registry of "Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) Extended Communities" with a
subregistry of "Generic Transitive Experimental Use Extended Community Sub-Types". IANA has
assigned a new subtype as follows:

"Flow Speciﬁcation for SFC Classiﬁers" with a value of 0x0d and with this document as the
reference.

10.7.  New BGP Transitive Extended Community Type

IANA maintains a registry of "Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) Extended Communities" with a
subregistry of "BGP Transitive Extended Community Types". IANA has assigned a new type as
follows:

SFC (Sub-Types are deﬁned in the "SFC Extended Community Sub-Types" registry) with a
value of 0x0b and with this document as the reference.

10.8.  "SFC Extended Community Sub-Types" Registry

IANA maintains a registry of "Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) Parameters". IANA has created a
new subregistry called the "SFC Extended Community Sub-Types" registry.

IANA has included the following note:

This registry contains values of the second octet (the "Sub-Type" ﬁeld) of an
extended community when the value of the ﬁrst octet (the "Type" ﬁeld) is set to
0x0b.

The allocation policy for this registry is First Come First Served.

Valid values are 0 to 255. The value 0 is reserved and should not be allocated.

IANA has populated this registry with the following entries:

Sub-Type
Value

0

1

Name

Reserved

Reference Date

RFC 9015

SFIR pool identiﬁer

RFC 9015

2020-09-02

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 55

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

Sub-Type
Value

2

Name

Reference Date

MPLS Label Stack Mixed Swapping/Stacking
Labels

RFC 9015

2020-09-02

3-255

Unassigned

Table 4: SFC Extended Community Sub-Types Subregistry Initial Contents

10.9.  New SPI/SI Representation Sub-TLV

IANA has assigned a codepoint from the "BGP Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute Sub-TLVs" registry
for the "SPI/SI Representation Sub-TLV" with a value of 16 and with this document as the
reference.

10.10.  "SFC SPI/SI Representation Flags" Registry

IANA maintains the "BGP Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute Sub-TLVs" registry and has created an
associated registry called the "SFC SPI/SI Representation Flags" registry.

Bits are to be assigned by Standards Action. The ﬁeld is 16 bits long, and bits are counted from
the most signiﬁcant bit as bit zero.

IANA has populated the registry as follows:

Value Name

Reference

0

1

NSH data plane

RFC 9015

MPLS data plane

RFC 9015

Table 5: SFC SPI/SI Representation Flags
Registry Initial Contents

11.  References

11.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC4271]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Rekhter, Y., Ed. Li, T., Ed.
(BGP-4)" RFC 4271 DOI 10.17487/RFC4271
editor.org/info/rfc4271>

, and

.

,

,

,
, January 2006,

S. Hares, Ed. "A Border Gateway Protocol 4

<https://www.rfc-

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 56

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

[RFC4360]

[RFC4364]

[RFC4760]

[RFC7432]

[RFC7606]

[RFC7665]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8300]

[RFC8595]

[RFC8596]

[RFC8955]

Sangli, S. Tappan, D.
,
RFC 4360 DOI 10.17487/RFC4360
,
info/rfc4360>

, and

.

Y. Rekhter "BGP Extended Communities Attribute"
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, February 2006,

,

 and

Rosen, E.
,
4364 DOI 10.17487/RFC4364
rfc4364>

,

.

Y. Rekhter "BGP/MPLS IP Virtual Private Networks (VPNs)" RFC
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, February 2006,

,

,

,
Bates, T. Chandra, R. Katz, D.
BGP-4" RFC 4760 DOI 10.17487/RFC4760
editor.org/info/rfc4760>

, and

,

,

.

Y. Rekhter "Multiprotocol Extensions for

,

, January 2007,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Sajassi, A., Ed. Aggarwal, R. Bitar, N. Isaac, A. Uttaro, J. Drake, J.
Henderickx "BGP MPLS-Based Ethernet VPN" RFC 7432 DOI 10.17487/RFC7432
February 2015,

,
,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7432>

, and

,
,

W.

,

,

,

,

,

, and
K. Patel "Revised Error
Chen, E., Ed. Scudder, J., Ed. Mohapatra, P.
,
Handling for BGP UPDATE Messages" RFC 7606 DOI 10.17487/RFC7606
2015,
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7606>

,

,

,

, August

 and

Halpern, J., Ed.
,
,
Architecture" RFC 7665 DOI 10.17487/RFC7665
.
editor.org/info/rfc7665>

,

C. Pignataro, Ed. "Service Function Chaining (SFC)

, October 2015,

<https://www.rfc-

,
Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

.

,

, June

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

,
Quinn, P., Ed. Elzur, U., Ed.
(NSH)" RFC 8300 DOI 10.17487/RFC8300
editor.org/info/rfc8300>

, and

,

,

.

,
, January 2018,

C. Pignataro, Ed. "Network Service Header

<https://www.rfc-

, and
,
Farrel, A. Bryant, S.
,
Function Chaining" RFC 8595 DOI 10.17487/RFC8595
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8595>

,

,

.

J. Drake "An MPLS-Based Forwarding Plane for Service

, June 2019,

<https://

,

,

Malis, A. Bryant, S. Halpern, J.
Encapsulation for the Service Function Chaining (SFC) Network Service Header
,
(NSH)" RFC 8596 DOI 10.17487/RFC8596
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/
info/rfc8596>

W. Henderickx "MPLS Transport

, June 2019,

, and

,

,

.

,

,
Loibl, C. Hares, S. Raszuk, R. McPherson, D.
Flow Speciﬁcation Rules" RFC 8955 DOI 10.17487/RFC8955
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8955>

, and

,

,

,

.

M. Bacher "Dissemination of

,
, December 2020,

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 57

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

[RFC9012]

,

Patel, K. Van de Velde, G. Sangli, S.
Encapsulation Attribute" RFC 9012 DOI 10.17487/RFC9012
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9012>

, and
,

,
,

,

.

J. Scudder "The BGP Tunnel

, April 2021,

<https://

11.2.  Informative References

[BGP-LS-SR]

,

,

,

Dawra, G. Filsﬁls, C. Talaulikar, K. Clad, F. Bernier, D. Uttaro, J. Decraene, B.
Elmalky, H. Xu, X. Guichard, J.
C. Li "BGP-LS Advertisement of Segment
Routing Service Segments" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-dawra-idr-
bgp-ls-sr-service-segments-05
, 15 February 2021,
draft-dawra-idr-bgp-ls-sr-service-segments-05>
.

<https://tools.ietf.org/html/

,
, and

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

[RFC3022]

[RFC4272]

[RFC5925]

[RFC6146]

[RFC6296]

[RFC6952]

[RFC7498]

K. Egevang "Traditional IP Network Address Translator

 and

Srisuresh, P.
(Traditional NAT)" RFC 3022 DOI 10.17487/RFC3022
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3022>

,
,

,

.

, January 2001,

<https://

Murphy, S. "BGP Security Vulnerabilities Analysis" RFC 4272 DOI 10.17487/
RFC4272

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4272>

, January 2006,

.

,

,

,

,

Touch, J. Mankin, A.
DOI 10.17487/RFC5925

, and

R. Bonica "The TCP Authentication Option" RFC 5925

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5925>

, June 2010,

.

,

,

,
Bagnulo, M. Matthews, P.
Address and Protocol Translation from IPv6 Clients to IPv4 Servers" RFC 6146
.
DOI 10.17487/RFC6146

I. van Beijnum "Stateful NAT64: Network

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6146>

, April 2011,

, and

,

,

,

 and

Wasserman, M.
,
6296 DOI 10.17487/RFC6296
rfc6296>

.

F. Baker "IPv6-to-IPv6 Network Preﬁx Translation" RFC

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,
, June 2011,

,

,
Jethanandani, M. Patel, K.
L. Zheng "Analysis of BGP, LDP, PCEP, and MSDP
Issues According to the Keying and Authentication for Routing Protocols (KARP)
,
Design Guide" RFC 6952 DOI 10.17487/RFC6952
.
editor.org/info/rfc6952>

<https://www.rfc-

, May 2013,

, and

,

 and

Quinn, P., Ed.
Chaining" RFC 7498 DOI 10.17487/RFC7498
editor.org/info/rfc7498>

T. Nadeau, Ed. "Problem Statement for Service Function
<https://www.rfc-

, April 2015,

,

,

.

,

Acknowledgements

Thanks to
Tony Przygienda Jeﬀ Haas
for discussions that improved this document.
caught some important issues.
Document Shepherd review.

, and

,

Stephane Litkowski

Andy Malis

 for helpful comments, and to

Joel Halpern

Yuanlong Jiang

 provided a useful review and
 did an exceptionally good and detailed

Andy Malis

 contributed text that formed the basis of Section 7.7.

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 58

RFC 9015

BGP for NSH SFC

June 2021

Sheng Jiang Med Boucadair Ravi Singh Benjamin Kaduk Roman Danyliw Adam Roach

,

,

,

 provided useful reviews during IETF Last Call. Thanks

 and
,

Martin Vigoureux

Brian Carpenter
also to
Alvaro Retana Barry Leiba
, and
provided helpful discussion of the SFT codepoint registry.
diﬀerence between an RD and an RT;
between an RD and an Extended Community.

Murray Kucherawy

Benjamin Kaduk

,

,

,

 for review comments.
Ron Bonica

Ketan Talaulikar
 kept us honest on the

 kept us on message about the diﬀerence

Contributors

Stuart Mackie
Juniper Networks
Email:

 wsmackie@juinper.net

Keyur Patel
Arrcus, Inc.
Email:

 keyur@arrcus.com

Avinash Lingala
AT&T
Email:

 ar977m@att.com

Authors' Addresses

Adrian Farrel
Old Dog Consulting
Email:

 adrian@olddog.co.uk

John Drake
Juniper Networks
Email:

 jdrake@juniper.net

Eric Rosen
Juniper Networks
Email:

 erosen52@gmail.com

Jim Uttaro
AT&T
Email:

 ju1738@att.com

Luay Jalil
Verizon
Email:

 luay.jalil@verizon.com

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 59

