Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9234
Standards Track
May 2022
2070-1721
A. Azimov
Qrator Labs & Yandex

E. Bogomazov
Qrator Labs

R. Bush
IIJ & Arrcus

K. Patel
Arrcus

K. Sriram
USA NIST

RFC 9234
Route Leak Prevention and Detection Using Roles in
UPDATE and OPEN Messages

Abstract

Route leaks are the propagation of BGP preﬁxes that violate assumptions of BGP topology
relationships, e.g., announcing a route learned from one transit provider to another transit
provider or a lateral (i.e., non-transit) peer or announcing a route learned from one lateral peer
to another lateral peer or a transit provider. These are usually the result of misconﬁgured or
absent BGP route ﬁltering or lack of coordination between autonomous systems (ASes). Existing
approaches to leak prevention rely on marking routes by operator conﬁguration, with no check
that the conﬁguration corresponds to that of the External BGP (eBGP) neighbor, or enforcement
of the two eBGP speakers agreeing on the peering relationship. This document enhances the BGP
OPEN message to establish an agreement of the peering relationship on each eBGP session
between autonomous systems in order to enforce appropriate conﬁguration on both sides.
Propagated routes are then marked according to the agreed relationship, allowing both
prevention and detection of route leaks.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

.
https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9234

Azimov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9234

Route Leak Prevention

May 2022

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Requirements Language

3.  Terminology

3.1.  Peering Relationships

4.  BGP Role

4.1.  BGP Role Capability

4.2.  Role Correctness

5.  BGP Only to Customer (OTC) Attribute

6.  Additional Considerations

7.  IANA Considerations

8.  Security Considerations

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

Azimov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9234

Route Leak Prevention

May 2022

1.  Introduction

Route leaks are the propagation of BGP preﬁxes that violate assumptions of BGP topology
relationships, e.g., announcing a route learned from one transit provider to another transit
provider or a lateral (i.e., non-transit) peer or announcing a route learned from one lateral peer
to another lateral peer or a transit provider
misconﬁgured or absent BGP route ﬁltering or lack of coordination between autonomous
systems (ASes).

. These are usually the result of

[RFC7908]

Existing approaches to leak prevention rely on marking routes by operator conﬁguration, with
no check that the conﬁguration corresponds to that of the eBGP neighbor, or enforcement of the
two eBGP speakers agreeing on the relationship. This document enhances the BGP OPEN message
to establish an agreement of the relationship on each eBGP session between autonomous systems
in order to enforce appropriate conﬁguration on both sides. Propagated routes are then marked
according to the agreed relationship, allowing both prevention and detection of route leaks.

This document speciﬁes a means of replacing the operator-driven conﬁguration-based method of
route leak prevention, described above, with an in-band method for route leak prevention and
detection.

This method uses a new conﬁguration parameter, BGP Role, which is negotiated using a BGP Role
. An eBGP speaker may require the use of this capability
Capability in the OPEN message
and conﬁrmation of the BGP Role with a neighbor for the BGP OPEN to succeed.

[RFC5492]

An optional, transitive BGP Path Attribute, called "Only to Customer (OTC)", is speciﬁed in Section
5. It prevents ASes from creating leaks and detects leaks created by the ASes in the middle of an
AS path. The main focus/applicability is the Internet (IPv4 and IPv6 unicast route
advertisements).

2.  Requirements Language

The key words "
", "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
", "
"
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

3.  Terminology

The terms "local AS" and "remote AS" are used to refer to the two ends of an eBGP session. The
"local AS" is the AS where the protocol action being described is to be performed, and "remote AS"
is the AS at the other end of the eBGP session in consideration.

The use of the term "route is ineligible" in this document has the same meaning as in
i.e., "route is ineligible to be installed in Loc-RIB and will be excluded from the next phase of route
selection."

[RFC4271]

,

Azimov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9234

Route Leak Prevention

May 2022

3.1.  Peering Relationships

The terms for peering relationships deﬁned and used in this document (see below) do not
necessarily represent business relationships based on payment agreements. These terms are used
to represent restrictions on BGP route propagation, sometimes known as the Gao-Rexford model
[GAO-REXFORD]
terms "transit provider", "customer", and "lateral (i.e., non-transit) peer", respectively, used in
[RFC7908]

. The terms "Provider", "Customer", and "Peer" used here are synonymous to the

.

The following is a list of BGP Roles for eBGP peering and the corresponding rules for route
propagation:

Provider:

MAY

 propagate any available route to a Customer.

Customer:

MAY

 propagate any route learned from a Customer, or that is locally originated, to a

Provider. All other routes

MUST NOT

 be propagated.

Route Server (RS):

MAY

 propagate any available route to a Route Server Client (RS-Client).

Route Server Client (RS-Client):

MAY

locally originated, to an RS. All other routes

 propagate any route learned from a Customer, or that is
 be propagated.

MUST NOT

Peer:

MAY

 propagate any route learned from a Customer, or that is locally originated, to a Peer.

All other routes

MUST NOT

 be propagated.

If the local AS has one of the above Roles (in the order shown), then the corresponding peering
relationship with the remote AS is Provider-to-Customer, Customer-to-Provider, RS-to-RS-Client,
RS-Client-to-RS, or Peer-to-Peer (i.e., lateral peers), respectively. These are called normal peering
relationships.

If the local AS has more than one peering Role with the remote AS, such a peering relation is called
"Complex". An example is when the peering relationship is Provider-to-Customer for some
preﬁxes while it is Peer-to-Peer for other preﬁxes

[GAO-REXFORD]

.

A BGP speaker may apply policy to reduce what is announced, and a recipient may apply policy
to reduce the set of routes they accept.

Violation of the route propagation rules listed above may result in route leaks
Automatic enforcement of these rules should signiﬁcantly reduce route leaks that may otherwise
occur due to manual conﬁguration mistakes.

[RFC7908]

.

As speciﬁed in Section 5, the OTC Attribute is used to identify all the routes in the AS that have
been received from a Peer, a Provider, or an RS.

Azimov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9234

Route Leak Prevention

May 2022

4.  BGP Role

The BGP Role characterizes the relationship between the eBGP speakers forming a session. One of
the Roles described below
deﬁnitions in Section 3) based on the local AS's knowledge of its Role. The only exception is when
the eBGP connection is Complex (see Section 6). BGP Roles are mutually conﬁrmed using the BGP
Role Capability (described in Section 4.1) on each eBGP session.

 be conﬁgured at the local AS for each eBGP session (see

SHOULD

Allowed Roles for eBGP sessions are:

Provider:

the local AS is a transit provider of the remote AS;

Customer:

the local AS is a transit customer of the remote AS;

RS:

the local AS is a Route Server (usually at an Internet exchange point), and the remote AS is

its RS-Client;

RS-Client:

the local AS is a client of an RS and the RS is the remote AS; and

Peer:

the local and remote ASes are Peers (i.e., have a lateral peering relationship).

4.1.  BGP Role Capability

The BGP Role Capability is deﬁned as follows:

Code:

9

Length:

1 (octet)

Value:

integer corresponding to the speaker's BGP Role (see Table 1)

Value

Role name (for the local AS)

0

1

2

3

4

Provider

RS

RS-Client

Customer

Peer (i.e., Lateral Peer)

5-255

Unassigned

Table 1: Predeﬁned BGP Role Values

Azimov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9234

Route Leak Prevention

May 2022

 advertise the BGP Role Capability in
If the BGP Role is locally conﬁgured, the eBGP speaker
the BGP OPEN message. An eBGP speaker
 advertise multiple versions of the BGP Role
MUST NOT
Capability. The error handling when multiple BGP Role Capabilities are received is described in
Section 4.2.

MUST

4.2.  Role Correctness

Section 4.1 describes how the BGP Role encodes the relationship on each eBGP session between
ASes.

The mere receipt of the BGP Role Capability does not automatically guarantee the Role
agreement between two eBGP neighbors. If the BGP Role Capability is advertised, and one is also
 correspond to the relationships in Table 2. If the Roles do
received from the peer, the Roles
not correspond, the BGP speaker
 reject the connection using the Role Mismatch
Notiﬁcation (code 2, subcode 11).

MUST

MUST

Local AS Role

Remote AS Role

Provider

Customer

Customer

Provider

RS

RS-Client

RS-Client

Peer

RS

Peer

Table 2: Allowed Pairs of Role Capabilities

For backward compatibility, if the BGP Role Capability is sent but one is not received, the BGP
Speaker
establishment. The locally conﬁgured BGP Role is used for the procedures described in Section 5.

 ignore the absence of the BGP Role Capability and proceed with session

SHOULD

An operator may choose to apply a "strict mode" in which the receipt of a BGP Role Capability
from the remote AS is required. When operating in the "strict mode", if the BGP Role Capability is
sent but one is not received, the connection is rejected using the Role Mismatch Notiﬁcation
(code 2, subcode 11). See comments in Section 8.

If an eBGP speaker receives multiple but identical BGP Role Capabilities with the same value in
each, then the speaker considers them to be a single BGP Role Capability and proceeds
If multiple BGP Role Capabilities are received and not all of them have the same value, then the
BGP speaker
 reject the connection using the Role Mismatch Notiﬁcation (code 2, subcode
11).

MUST

[RFC5492]

.

The BGP Role value for the local AS (in conjunction with the OTC Attribute in the received UPDATE
message) is used in the route leak prevention and detection procedures described in Section 5.

Azimov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9234

Route Leak Prevention

May 2022

5.  BGP Only to Customer (OTC) Attribute

The OTC Attribute is an optional transitive Path Attribute of the UPDATE message with Attribute
Type Code 35 and a length of 4 octets. The purpose of this attribute is to enforce that once a route
is sent to a Customer, a Peer, or an RS-Client (see deﬁnitions in Section 3.1), it will subsequently go
only to the Customers. The attribute value is an AS number (ASN) determined by the procedures
described below.

The following ingress procedure applies to the processing of the OTC Attribute on route receipt:

1.

If a route with the OTC Attribute is received from a Customer or an RS-Client, then it is a route
leak and

 be considered ineligible (see Section 3).

MUST

2.

If a route with the OTC Attribute is received from a Peer (i.e., remote AS with a Peer Role) and
the Attribute has a value that is not equal to the remote (i.e., Peer's) AS number, then it is a
route leak and

 be considered ineligible.

MUST

3.

If a route is received from a Provider, a Peer, or an RS and the OTC Attribute is not present,
 be added with a value equal to the AS number of the remote AS.
then it

MUST

The following egress procedure applies to the processing of the OTC Attribute on route
advertisement:

1.

If a route is to be advertised to a Customer, a Peer, or an RS-Client (when the sender is an RS),
and the OTC Attribute is not present, then when advertising the route, an OTC Attribute
MUST
be added with a value equal to the AS number of the local AS.

2.

If a route already contains the OTC Attribute, it
or RSes.

MUST NOT

 be propagated to Providers, Peers,

The above-described procedures provide both leak prevention for the local AS and leak detection
and mitigation multiple hops away. In the case of prevention at the local AS, the presence of an
OTC Attribute indicates to the egress router that the route was learned from a Peer, a Provider, or
an RS, and it can be advertised only to the Customers. The same OTC Attribute that is set locally
also provides a way to detect route leaks by an AS multiple hops away if a route is received from a
Customer, a Peer, or an RS-Client. For example, if an AS sets the OTC Attribute on a route sent to a
Peer and the route is subsequently received by a compliant AS from a Customer, then the
receiving AS detects (based on the presence of the OTC Attribute) that the route is a leak.

The OTC Attribute might be set at the egress of the remote AS or at the ingress of the local AS, i.e., if
the remote AS is non-compliant with this speciﬁcation, then the local AS will have to set the OTC
Attribute if it is absent. In both scenarios, the OTC value will be the same. This makes the scheme
more robust and beneﬁts early adopters.

The OTC Attribute is considered malformed if the length value is not 4. An UPDATE message with a
.
malformed OTC Attribute
[RFC7606]

 be handled using the approach of "treat-as-withdraw"

SHALL

Azimov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9234

Route Leak Prevention

May 2022

 to be used between autonomous systems in an AS Confederation

The BGP Role negotiation and OTC-Attribute-based procedures speciﬁed in this document are
RECOMMENDED
OTC Attribute is added on egress from the AS Confederation, its value
Confederation Identiﬁer. Also, on egress from the AS Confederation, an UPDATE
contain an OTC Attribute with a value corresponding to any Member-AS Number other than the
AS Confederation Identiﬁer.

 equal the AS

[RFC5065]

MUST NOT

MUST

NOT
. If an

The procedures speciﬁed in this document in scenarios that use private AS numbers behind an
 or stub customer) may be used, but
Internet-facing ASN (e.g., a data-center network
any details are outside the scope of this document. On egress from the Internet-facing AS, the OTC
Attribute

 contain a value other than the Internet-facing ASN.

[RFC7938]

MUST NOT

Once the OTC Attribute has been set, it
Confederation).

MUST

 be preserved unchanged (this also applies to an AS

The described ingress and egress procedures are applicable only for the address families AFI 1
(IPv4) and AFI 2 (IPv6) with SAFI 1 (unicast) in both cases and
address families by default. The operator
deﬁned in this section.

 have the ability to modify the procedures

 be applied to other

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

6.  Additional Considerations

MUST NOT

 be conﬁgured on an eBGP session with a Complex peering relationship. If

Roles
multiple eBGP sessions can segregate the Complex peering relationship into eBGP sessions with
 be used on each of the resulting eBGP sessions.
normal peering relationships, BGP Roles

SHOULD

An operator may want to achieve an equivalent outcome by conﬁguring policies on a per-preﬁx
basis to follow the deﬁnitions of peering relations as described in Section 3.1. However, in this
case, there are no in-band measures to check the correctness of the per-preﬁx peering
conﬁguration.

The incorrect setting of BGP Roles and/or OTC Attributes may aﬀect preﬁx propagation. Further,
this document does not specify any special handling of an incorrect AS number in the OTC
Attribute.

In AS migration scenarios
diﬀerent ASes. This should not be a problem since the egress procedures in Section 5 specify that
the OTC Attribute is to be attached as part of route transmission. Therefore, a router is expected to
set the OTC value equal to the ASN it is currently representing itself as.

, a given router may represent itself as any one of several

[RFC7705]

Section 6 of [RFC7606]
Such negative impacts may include forwarding loops or dropped traﬃc. It also discusses
debugging considerations related to this behavior.

 documents possible negative impacts of "treat-as-withdraw" behavior.

Azimov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9234

Route Leak Prevention

May 2022

7.  IANA Considerations

IANA has registered a new BGP Capability (Section 4.1) in the "Capability Codes" registry within
the "IETF Review" range
assigned the value 9. This document is the reference for the new capability.

. The description for the new capability is "BGP Role". IANA has

[RFC5492]

IANA has created and now maintains a new subregistry called "BGP Role Value" within the
"Capability Codes" registry. Registrations should include a value, a role name, and a reference to
the deﬁning document. IANA has registered the values in Table 3. Future assignments may be
made by the "IETF Review" policy as deﬁned in

[RFC8126]

.

Value

Role name (for the local AS)

Reference

0

1

2

3

4

Provider

RS

RS-Client

Customer

This document

This document

This document

This document

Peer (i.e., Lateral Peer)

This document

5-255

To be assigned by IETF Review

Table 3: IANA Registry for BGP Role

IANA has registered a new OPEN Message Error subcode named "Role Mismatch" (see Section 4.2)
in the "OPEN Message Error subcodes" registry. IANA has assigned the value 11. This document is
the reference for the new subcode.

Due to improper use of the values 8, 9, and 10, IANA has marked values 8-10 as "Deprecated" in the
"OPEN Message Error subcodes" registry. This document is listed as the reference.

IANA has also registered a new Path Attribute named "Only to Customer (OTC)" (see Section 5) in
the "BGP Path Attributes" registry. IANA has assigned code value 35. This document is the
reference for the new attribute.

8.  Security Considerations

The security considerations of BGP (as speciﬁed in

[RFC4271]

 and

[RFC4272]

) apply.

This document proposes a mechanism that uses the BGP Role for the prevention and detection of
route leaks that are the result of BGP policy misconﬁguration. A misconﬁguration of the BGP Role
may aﬀect preﬁx propagation. For example, if a downstream (i.e., towards a Customer) peering
link were misconﬁgured with a Provider or Peer Role, it would limit the number of preﬁxes that
can be advertised in this direction. On the other hand, if an upstream provider were

Azimov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9234

Route Leak Prevention

May 2022

misconﬁgured (by a local AS) with the Customer Role, it may result in propagating routes that are
received from other Providers or Peers. But the BGP Role negotiation and the resulting
conﬁrmation of Roles make such misconﬁgurations unlikely.

Setting the strict mode of operation for BGP Role negotiation as the default may result in a
situation where the eBGP session will not come up after a software update. Implementations with
such default behavior are strongly discouraged.

Removing the OTC Attribute or changing its value can limit the opportunity for route leak
detection. Such activity can be done on purpose as part of an on-path attack. For example, an AS
can remove the OTC Attribute on a received route and then leak the route to its transit provider.
[RFC8205]
This kind of threat is not new in BGP, and it may aﬀect any Attribute (note that BGPsec
oﬀers protection only for the AS_PATH Attribute).

Adding an OTC Attribute when the route is advertised from Customer to Provider will limit the
propagation of the route. Such a route may be considered as ineligible by the immediate Provider
or its Peers or upper-layer Providers. This kind of OTC Attribute addition is unlikely to happen on
the Provider side because it will limit the traﬃc volume towards its Customer. On the Customer
side, adding an OTC Attribute for traﬃc-engineering purposes is also discouraged because it will
limit route propagation in an unpredictable way.

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC4271]

[RFC5065]

[RFC5492]

[RFC7606]

[RFC7908]

,

,
Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
.
rfc2119>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,
Rekhter, Y., Ed. Li, T., Ed.
,
RFC 4271 DOI 10.17487/RFC4271
.
rfc4271>

, and

,
S. Hares, Ed. "A Border Gateway Protocol 4 (BGP-4)"

,

, January 2006,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,
,

,
Traina, P. McPherson, D.
for BGP" RFC 5065 DOI 10.17487/RFC5065
.
editor.org/info/rfc5065>

, and

,

J. Scudder "Autonomous System Confederations

, August 2007,

<https://www.rfc-

Scudder, J.
DOI 10.17487/RFC5492

,
R. Chandra "Capabilities Advertisement with BGP-4" RFC 5492
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5492>

, February 2009,

 and

,

,

,

Chen, E., Ed. Scudder, J., Ed. Mohapatra, P.
for BGP UPDATE Messages" RFC 7606 DOI 10.17487/RFC7606
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7606>

, and

,
,

,

,

K. Patel "Revised Error Handling

, August 2015,

,

,
Sriram, K. Montgomery, D. McPherson, D. Osterweil, E.
"Problem Deﬁnition and Classiﬁcation of BGP Route Leaks" RFC 7908 DOI
10.17487/RFC7908

, and
B. Dickson
,
,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7908>

, June 2016,

,

,

Azimov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9234

Route Leak Prevention

May 2022

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>
.

, and

,

,

,

,

, June

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
,
rfc8174>
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

9.2.  Informative References

[GAO-REXFORD]

Gao, L.

 and

,
J. Rexford "Stable Internet routing without global coordination"

,

IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking, Volume 9, Issue 6, pp. 689-692  DOI
10.1109/90.974523

.
<https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/974523>

, December 2001,

,

Murphy, S. "BGP Security Vulnerabilities Analysis" RFC 4272 DOI 10.17487/
RFC4272

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4272>

, January 2006,

,

,

,

 and

S. Amante "Autonomous System Migration Mechanisms and
George, W.
,
Their Eﬀects on the BGP AS_PATH Attribute" RFC 7705 DOI 10.17487/RFC7705
November 2015,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7705>

,

,

,

,

, and
Lapukhov, P. Premji, A.
Scale Data Centers" RFC 7938 DOI 10.17487/RFC7938
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7938>

,

,

,

J. Mitchell, Ed. "Use of BGP for Routing in Large-

, August 2016,

<https://

 and
Lepinski, M., Ed.
DOI 10.17487/RFC8205

,
K. Sriram, Ed. "BGPsec Protocol Speciﬁcation" RFC 8205
, September 2017,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8205>

,

,

[RFC4272]

[RFC7705]

[RFC7938]

[RFC8205]

Acknowledgments

,

Alvaro Retana Bruno Decraene Jeﬀ Haas John Scudder Sue Hares
The authors wish to thank
,
Ben Maddison Andrei Robachevsky Daniel Ginsburg Ruediger Volk Pavel Lunin Gyan Mishra
,
and
 for their reviews, comments, and suggestions during the course of this work.
Thanks are also due to many IESG reviewers whose comments greatly helped improve the clarity,
accuracy, and presentation in the document.

Ignas Bagdonas

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Contributors

Brian Dickson
Independent
Email:

 brian.peter.dickson@gmail.com

Doug Montgomery
USA National Institute of Standards and Technology
Email:

 dougm@nist.gov

Azimov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9234

Route Leak Prevention

May 2022

Authors' Addresses

Alexander Azimov
Qrator Labs & Yandex
Ulitsa Lva Tolstogo 16
Moscow
119021
Russian Federation
Email:

 a.e.azimov@gmail.com

Eugene Bogomazov
Qrator Labs
1-y Magistralnyy tupik 5A
Moscow
123290
Russian Federation
Email:

 eb@qrator.net

Randy Bush
Internet Initiative Japan & Arrcus, Inc.
5147 Crystal Springs
Bainbridge Island Washington 98110
,
United States of America
 randy@psg.com
Email:

Keyur Patel
Arrcus
2077 Gateway Place
Suite #400
San Jose CA 95119
,
United States of America
Email:

 keyur@arrcus.com

Kotikalapudi Sriram
USA National Institute of Standards and Technology
100 Bureau Drive
Gaithersburg MD 20899
United States of America
 ksriram@nist.gov
Email:

,

Azimov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

