Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9929
Standards Track
February 2026
2070-1721
P. Psenak, Ed.
Cisco Systems

C. Filsfils
Cisco Systems

D. Voyer
Cisco Systems

S. Hegde
HPE

G. Mishra
Verizon Inc.

RFC 9929
IGP Unreachable Prefix Announcement

Abstract

Summarization is often used in multi-area or multi-domain networks to improve network
efficiency and scalability. With summarization in place, there is a need to signal loss of
reachability to an individual prefix covered by the summary. This enables fast convergence by
steering traffic, when applicable, away from the node which owns the prefix and is no longer
reachable.

This document specifies protocol mechanisms in IS-IS and OSPF, together with two new flags, to
advertise such prefix reachability loss.

The term "OSPF" in this document is used to refer to both OSPFv2 and OSPFv3.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9929
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2026 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9929

IGP Unreachable Prefix Announcement

February 2026

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

2.  Generation of the UPA

3.  Supporting UPA in IS-IS

3.1.  Advertisement of UPA in IS-IS

3.2.  Signaling UPA in IS-IS

3.3.  Propagation of UPA in IS-IS

4.  Supporting UPA in OSPF

4.1.  Advertisement of UPA in OSPF

4.2.  Signaling UPA in OSPF

4.2.1.  Signaling UPA in OSPFv2

4.2.2.  Signaling UPA in OSPFv3

4.3.  Propagation of UPA in OSPF

5.  Processing of the UPA

6.  Area and Domain Partition

7.  IANA Considerations

7.1.  IS-IS Prefix Attribute Flags Sub-TLV

7.2.  OSPFv2 and OSPFv3 Prefix Extended Flags

8.  Security Considerations

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Contributors

3

4

4

5

6

6

7

7

8

8

9

9

9

10

10

10

10

11

11

11

11

13

13

13

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9929

IGP Unreachable Prefix Announcement

February 2026

Authors' Addresses

14

1.  Introduction

[RFC5340]

[ISO10589]

, Open Shortest Path First version 2 (OSPFv2))

Link-state Interior Gateway Protocols (IGPs) like Intermediate System to Intermediate System (IS-
IS)
First version 3 (OSPFv3)
routers belonging to a single Autonomous System (AS) and to calculate the reachability for IPv4
or IPv6 prefixes advertised by the individual nodes inside the AS. Each node advertises the state
of its local adjacencies, connected prefixes, capabilities, etc. The collection of these states from
all the routers inside the area form a Link State Database (LSDB) that describes the topology of
the area and holds additional state information about the prefixes, router capabilities, etc.

[RFC2328]
 are primarily used to distribute routing information between

, and Open Shortest Path

The growth of networks running a link-state routing protocol results in the addition of more
state, which leads to scalability and convergence challenges. The organization of networks into
levels/areas and IGP domains helps limit the scope of link-state information within certain
boundaries. However, the state related to prefix reachability often requires propagation across a
multi-area/level and/or multi-domain IGP network. IGP summarization is a network engineering
technique for combining multiple smaller, contiguous IP networks into a single, larger summary
route. Techniques such as summarization have been used to address the scaling challenges
associated with advertising prefix state outside of the local area/domain. However, this results in
suppression of the individual prefix state that is useful for triggering fast-convergence
mechanisms outside of the IGPs -- e.g., Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) Prefix-Independent
Convergence (PIC)

[BGP-PIC]
.

Similarly, when a router needs to be taken out of service for maintenance, the traffic is drained
from the node before taking it down. This is typically achieved by setting the OVERLOAD bit
together with using a high metric for all prefixes advertised by the node in IS-IS. The
mechanisms available for that purpose are (in OSPFv2) using the cost of MaxLinkMetric for all
non-stub links in the router-LSA
[RFC5340]

 or using the H-bit

) using the R-bit.

, or (in OSPFv3

[RFC6987]

[RFC8770]

When prefixes from such nodes are summarized by an Area Border Router (ABR) or
Autonomous System Boundary Router (ASBR), nodes outside of the area or domain are unaware
of these summarized prefixes becoming unreachable. This document proposes protocol
extensions to carry information about such prefixes in a backward-compatible manner.

This document does not define how to advertise a prefix that is not reachable for routing. That
has been defined for IS-IS in
in

, for OSPFv2 in

, and for OSPFv3

[RFC5340]
.

[RFC5308]

[RFC5305]

[RFC2328]

 and

This document defines a method to signal a specific reason for which the prefix was advertised
with the metric that excludes it from the route calculation. This is done to distinguish it from any
other possible cases, where such metric advertisement may be used.

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9929

IGP Unreachable Prefix Announcement

February 2026

IGPs typically only advertise the reachability of the prefix. A prefix that was previously
advertised as reachable is made unreachable just by withdrawing the previous advertisement of
the prefix. Some of the use cases mentioned earlier in this section require that unreachability be
signaled for a prefix for which the reachability was not explicitly signaled previously, because it
was covered by the reachability of the summary prefix.

This document defines two new flags in IS-IS, OSPFv2, and OSPFv3. These flags provide the
support for advertising prefix unreachability, together with the reason for which the
unreachability is advertised. The functionality being described is called Unreachable Prefix
Announcement (UPA).

This document also defines how the UPA is propagated across IS-IS levels and OSPF areas.

The term "OSPF" in this document is used to cover both OSPFv2 and OSPFv3 protocols.

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Generation of the UPA

MAY

UPA
prefix originated by an ABR or ASBR in the following cases:

 be generated by an ABR or ASBR for a prefix that is summarized by the summary

1.

A prefix that was reachable earlier becomes unreachable.

2.

For any of the planned maintenance cases:

◦
the node originating the prefix is signaling the overload state in IS-IS, or the H-bit in
OSPFv2
◦
the metric to reach the prefix from an ABR or ASBR crosses the configured threshold.

, or the R-bit in OSPFv3

[RFC8770]

[RFC5340]

, or

Generation as well as propagation of the UPA at an ABR or ASBR is optional and
controlled by a configuration knob. It

 be disabled by default.

SHOULD

SHOULD

 be

Implementations
host prefixes, Segment Routing over IPv6 (SRv6) locators, or similar. Such filtering is optional and
SHOULD

 limit the UPA generation as well as propagation to specific prefixes, e.g.

 be controlled via configuration.

MAY

The intent of UPA is to provide an event-driven signal of the transition of a destination from
reachable to unreachable. It is not intended to advertise a persistent state.

MUST

ABR or ASBR
 withdraw the previously advertised UPA when the reason for which the UPA
was generated ceases, e.g., prefix reachability was restored or its metric has changed such that it
is below a configured threshold value.

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9929

IGP Unreachable Prefix Announcement

February 2026

Even if the reasons persist, UPA advertisements
time, that would provide sufficient time for UPA to be flooded network-wide and acted upon by
receiving nodes, but limits the presence of UPA in the network. The time the UPA is kept in the
network
withdrawing the UPA would result in stale information being kept in the link state databases of
all routers in the area.

 also reflect the intended use case for which the UPA was advertised. Not

 be withdrawn after some amount of

SHOULD

SHOULD

Implementations
SHOULD
originating ABR or ASBR.

 provide a configuration option to specify the UPA lifetime at the

As UPA advertisements in IS-IS are advertised in existing Link State PDUs (LSPs) and the unit of
flooding in IS-IS is an LSP, it is
 that, when possible, UPAs are advertised in LSPs
dedicated to this type of advertisement. This will minimize the number of LSPs that need to be
updated when UPAs are advertised and withdrawn.

RECOMMENDED

In OSPFv2 and OSPFv3, each inter-area and external prefix is advertised in its own LSA, so the
above consideration does not apply to OSPFv2 and OSPFv3.

RECOMMENDED

 that implementations limit the number of UPA advertisements that can

It is also
be originated at a given time to limit the number of UPAs present in the network at any given
point of time. UPA implementations
of such UPAs.

 provide a configuration option to limit the number

SHOULD

3.  Supporting UPA in IS-IS

[RFC5305]
information, and

Section 4 of [RFC5305]

 specifies:

 defines the encoding for advertising IPv4 prefixes using 4 octets of metric

If a prefix is advertised with a metric larger than MAX_PATH_METRIC (0xFE000000, see
paragraph 3.0), this prefix
computation. This allows advertisement of a prefix for purposes other than building the
normal IP routing table.

 be considered during the normal SPF

MUST NOT

Similarly,
information and

[RFC5308]

Section 2 of [RFC5308]

 states:

 defines the encoding for advertising IPv6 prefixes using 4 octets of metric

...if a prefix is advertised with a metric larger than MAX_V6_PATH_METRIC
(0xFE000000), this prefix
(SPF) computation. This will allow advertisement of a prefix for purposes other than
building the normal IPv6 routing table.

 be considered during the normal Shortest Path First

MUST NOT

This functionality can be used to advertise a prefix (IPv4 or IPv6) in a manner that indicates that
reachability has been lost -- and to do so without requiring all nodes in the network to be
upgraded to support the functionality.

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9929

IGP Unreachable Prefix Announcement

February 2026

3.1.  Advertisement of UPA in IS-IS

Existing nodes in a network that do not support UPA will not use UPAs during the route
calculation but will continue to flood them within the area. This allows flooding of such
advertisements to occur without the need to upgrade all nodes in a network to support this
specification.

Those ABRs or ASBRs that are responsible for propagating UPA advertisements into other areas
or domains are also expected to recognize UPA advertisements.

As per the definitions referenced in Section 3, any prefix advertisement with a metric value
greater than 0xFE000000 can be used for purposes other than normal routing calculations. Such
a metric

 be used when advertising UPA in IS-IS.

MUST

[RFC7370]
 introduced the "IS-IS Sub-TLVs for TLVs Advertising Prefix Reachability" registry,
which lists TLVs for advertising different types of prefix reachability. (The list at the time of
publication of this document is below.) UPA in IS-IS is supported for prefixes advertised in all
such TLVs identified by that registry, for example:

•

SRv6 Locator

[RFC9352]

•

Extended IP reachability

[RFC5305]

•

Multi-Topology (MT) IP Reach

[RFC5120]

•

IPv6 IP Reach

[RFC5308]

•

MT IPv6 IP Reach

[RFC5120]

•

IPv4 Algorithm Prefix Reachability TLV

[RFC9502]

•

IPv6 Algorithm Prefix Reachability TLV

[RFC9502]

3.2.  Signaling UPA in IS-IS

In IS-IS, a prefix can be advertised with a metric higher than 0xFE000000, for various reasons.
While IS-IS specifies the treatment of such metrics, explicit signaling is required to distinguish
UPA from other high-metric advertisements.

Two new bits in the IPv4/IPv6 Extended Reachability Attribute Flags

[RFC7794]

 are defined:

U-Flag:

Unreachable Prefix Flag (bit 5). When set, it indicates that the prefix is unreachable.

UP-Flag:

Unreachable Planned Prefix Flag (bit 6). When set, this flag indicates that the prefix is

unreachable due to a planned event (e.g., planned maintenance).

The originating node

MUST NOT

 set the UP-flag without setting the U-flag.

The receiving node

MUST

 ignore the UP-flag in the advertisement if the U-flag is not set.

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9929

IGP Unreachable Prefix Announcement

February 2026

The prefix that is advertised with the U-flag
0xFE000000. If the prefix metric is less than or equal 0xFE000000, both of these flags
ignored.

 have the metric set to a value larger than
MUST

MUST

 be

3.3.  Propagation of UPA in IS-IS

IS-IS L1/L2 routers, which would be responsible for propagating UPA advertisements between
levels, need to recognize such advertisements. Failure to do so would prevent UPA from
reaching the routers in the remote areas.

IS-IS allows propagation of IP prefixes in both directions between level 1 and level 2.
Propagation is only done if the prefix is reachable in the source level, i.e., the prefix is only
propagated from a level in which the prefix is reachable. Such requirement of reachability
NOT

 be applied for UPAs, as they are propagating unreachability.

MUST

IS-IS L1/L2 routers may wish to advertise received UPAs into other areas (upwards and/or
downwards). When propagating UPAs, the original metric value
reach the originator of the received UPA

 be preserved. The cost to
 be considered when readvertising the UPA.

MUST NOT

MUST

4.  Supporting UPA in OSPF

Appendix B of [RFC2328]

 defines the following architectural constant for OSPFv2:

LSInfinity

The metric value indicating that the destination described by an LSA is unreachable.
Used in summary-LSAs and AS-external-LSAs as an alternative to premature aging
(see Section 14.1). It is defined to be the 24-bit binary value of all ones: 0xffffff.

Appendix B of [RFC5340]

 states:

Architectural constants for the OSPF protocol are defined in Appendix B of [OSPFV2].

indicating that these same constants are applicable to OSPFv3.

[RFC2328], Section 14.1
reachability:

 also describes the usage of LSInfinity as a way to indicate loss of prefix

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9929

IGP Unreachable Prefix Announcement

February 2026

Premature aging can also be used when, for example, one of the router's previously
advertised external routes is no longer reachable. In this circumstance, the router can
flush its AS- external-LSA from the routing domain via premature aging. This procedure
is preferable to the alternative, which is to originate a new LSA for the destination
specifying a metric of LSInfinity.

In addition, the NU-bit is defined for OSPFv3
PrefixOptions field are not included in the routing calculation.

[RFC5340]

. Prefixes having the NU-bit set in their

UPA in OSPFv2 is supported for prefix reachability advertised via OSPFv2 Summary-LSA
[RFC2328]
and OSPFv2 IP Algorithm Prefix Reachability Sub-TLV

, Not-So-Stubby Area (NSSA) AS-external-LSA

, AS-external-LSAs

[RFC9502]
.

[RFC2328]

[RFC3101]
,

UPA in OSPFv3 is supported for prefix reachability advertised via OSPFv3 E-Inter-Area-Prefix-
[RFC8362]
, and SRv6 Locator LSA
LSA
[RFC9513]
.

, E-AS-External-LSA

, E-Type-7-LSA

[RFC8362]

[RFC8362]

For prefix reachability advertised via Inter-Area-Prefix-LSA
[RFC5340]
requires support of the OSPFv3 Extended LSAs in a sparse mode as specified in
[RFC8362]
.

, NSSA-LSA

[RFC5340]

[RFC5340]

, UPA is signaled using their corresponding extended LSAs. This

, AS-External-LSA

Section 6.2 of

4.1.  Advertisement of UPA in OSPF

If an ABR or ASBR advertises UPA in an advertisement of an inter-area or external prefix inside
 set the age to a value lower than MaxAge and set the metric to
OSPFv2 or OSPFv3, then it
LSInfinity.

MUST

UPA flooding inside the area follows the existing standard procedures defined by OSPFv2
[RFC2328]

 and OSPFv3

[RFC5340]
.

4.2.  Signaling UPA in OSPF

A prefix can be advertised (in OSPFv2) with the LSInfinity metric or (in OSPFv3) with the NU-bit
set in PrefixOptions, for various reasons. While OSPFv2 and OSPFv3 specify the treatment of the
LSInfinity metric and the NU-bit, explicit signaling is required to distinguish UPA from other
scenarios using the LSInfinity metric or NU-bit.

OSPFv2 and OSPFv3 Prefix Extended Flags Sub-TLVs been defined in
additional prefix attribute flags in OSPFv2 and OSPFv3.

[RFC9792]

 for advertising

Two new bits in the Prefix Attribute Flags Sub-TLV are defined:

U-Flag:

Unreachable Prefix Flag (bit 0). When set, it indicates that the prefix is unreachable.

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9929

IGP Unreachable Prefix Announcement

February 2026

UP-Flag: Unreachable Planned Prefix Flag (bit 1). When set, this flag indicates that the prefix is

unreachable due to a planned event (e.g., planned maintenance).

The originating node

MUST NOT

 set the UP-flag without setting the U-flag.

The receiving node

MUST

 ignore the UP-flag in the advertisement if the U-flag is not set.

4.2.1.  Signaling UPA in OSPFv2

The OSPFv2 Prefix Extended Flags Sub-TLV
[RFC7684]
.
Prefix TLV

[RFC9792]

 is a sub-TLV of the OSPFv2 Extended

The prefix that is advertised with U-Flag or UP-Flag
LSInfinity. If the prefix metric is not equal to LSInfinity, both of these flags
Therefore, for the prefixes in default algorithm 0 that are advertised with U-Flag, or Up-Flag, it is
REQUIRED to advertise the unreachable prefix in the base OSPFv2 LSA, e.g., e.g., OSPFv2
Summary-LSA

 have the metric set to a value

, or NSSA AS-external LSA

, or AS-external-LSAs

 be ignored.

[RFC3101]
.

[RFC2328]

[RFC2328]

MUST

MUST

4.2.2.  Signaling UPA in OSPFv3

OSPFv3 Prefix Extended Flags Sub-TLV is defined as a sub-TLV of the following OSPFv3 TLVs that
are defined in

[RFC8362]
:

•

Intra-Area-Prefix TLV

•

Inter-Area-Prefix TLV

•

External-Prefix TLV

The prefix that is advertised with U-Flag or UP-flag
LSInfinity. For default algorithm 0 prefixes, the LSInfinity
Algorithm Prefixes
Reachability sub-TLV. If the prefix metric is not equal to LSInfinity, both of these flags
ignored.

 be set in OSPFv3 IP Algorithm Prefix

 have the metric set to a value

, the LSInfinity

[RFC9502]

MUST

MUST

MUST

 be set in the parent TLV. For IP

MUST

 be

The prefix that is advertised with U-Flag or UP-Flag
PrefixOptions of the parent TLV. If the NU-bit in PrefixOptions of the parent TLV is not set, both
of these flags

 have the NU-bit set in the

 be ignored.

MUST

MUST

4.3.  Propagation of UPA in OSPF

OSPF ABRs, which would be responsible for propagating UPA advertisements into other areas,
need to recognize such advertisements. Failure to do so would prevent UPA from reaching the
routers in the remote areas.

Advertising prefix reachability between OSPF areas assumes prefix reachability in a source area.
Such a requirement of reachability
unreachability.

 be applied for UPAs, as they are propagating

MUST NOT

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9929

IGP Unreachable Prefix Announcement

February 2026

MAY

OSPF ABRs or ASBRs
doing so, the original LSInfinity metric value in UPA
originator of the received UPA
connected areas.

MUST NOT

 advertise received UPAs between connected areas or domains. When

MUST

 be preserved. The cost to reach the

 be considered when readvertising the UPA to

5.  Processing of the UPA

Processing of the received UPAs is optional and
receiver. The receiver itself, based on its configuration, decides what the UPA will be used for
and what applications, if any, will be notified when UPA is received. Usage of the UPA at the
receiver is outside of the scope of this document.

 be controlled by the configuration at the

SHOULD

As an example, UPA may be used to trigger BGP PIC Edge at the receiving router

[BGP-PIC]
.

Applications using the UPA cannot use the absence of the UPA to infer that the reachability of the
prefix is back. They must rely on their own mechanisms to verify the reachability of the remote
endpoints.

6.  Area and Domain Partition

UPA is not meant to address an area/domain partition. When an area or domain partitions,
while multiple ABRs or ASBRs advertise the same summary, each of them can only reach a
portion of the summarized prefix. As a result, depending on which ABR or ASBR the traffic is
using to enter a partitioned area, the traffic could be either dropped or delivered to its final
destination. UPA does not make the problem of an area partition any worse. In case of an area
partition, each ABR or ASBR will generate UPAs for the destinations for which the reachability
was lost locally. As the UPA propagates to the nodes outside a partitioned area, it may result in
such nodes picking an alternative egress node for the traffic, if such a node exists. If such an
alternative egress node resides outside a partitioned area, traffic will be restored. If such an
alternative egress node resides in a partitioned area and is covered by the summary, the traffic
will be dropped if it enters a partitioned area via an ABR or ASBR that cannot reach that node.
This will result in similar behavior as without the UPA. The above statements are also applicable
to a domain partition.

7.  IANA Considerations

7.1.  IS-IS Prefix Attribute Flags Sub-TLV

This document adds two new bits in the "IS-IS Bit Values for Prefix Attribute Flags Sub-TLV"
registry:

5

Bit #:
Name:
Reference:

U-Flag

RFC 9929 (Section 3.2)

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9929

IGP Unreachable Prefix Announcement

February 2026

6

Bit #:
Name:
Reference:

UP-Flag

RFC 9929 (Section 3.2)

7.2.  OSPFv2 and OSPFv3 Prefix Extended Flags

This document adds two new bits in the "OSPFv2 Prefix Extended Flags" and "OSPFv3 Prefix
Extended Flags" registries:

0
Bit:
Description:
Reference:

1
Bit:
Description:
Reference:

U-Flag

RFC 9929 (Section 4.2)

UP-Flag

RFC 9929 (Section 4.2)

8.  Security Considerations

The use of UPAs introduces the possibility that an attacker could inject a false, but apparently
valid, UPA. However, the risk of this occurring is no greater than the risk today of an attacker
injecting any other type of false advertisement.

The risks can be reduced by the use of existing security extensions as described in:

• [RFC5304] [RFC5310]
,

, and

[RFC7794]

 for IS-IS.

• [RFC2328] [RFC7474]
,

, and

[RFC7684]

 for OSPFv2.

• [RFC5340] [RFC4552]
,

, and

[RFC8362]

 for OSPFv3.

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[ISO10589]

[RFC2119]

,

ISO/IEC "Information technology -- Telecommunications and information
exchange between systems -- Intermediate System to Intermediate System intra-
domain routeing information exchange protocol for use in conjunction with the
protocol for providing the connectionless-mode network service (ISO 8473)"
ISO/IEC 10589:2002
<https://www.iso.org/en/contents/data/
standard/03/09/30932.html>

, November 2002,
.

,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9929

IGP Unreachable Prefix Announcement

February 2026

[RFC2328]

[RFC3101]

[RFC4552]

[RFC5120]

[RFC5304]

[RFC5305]

[RFC5308]

[RFC5310]

[RFC5340]

[RFC6987]

[RFC7370]

[RFC7474]

[RFC7684]

[RFC7794]

[RFC8174]

,

Moy, J. "OSPF Version 2" STD 54 RFC 2328 DOI 10.17487/RFC2328
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2328>

,

,

.

, April 1998,

Murphy, P. "The OSPF Not-So-Stubby Area (NSSA) Option" RFC 3101 DOI
10.17487/RFC3101

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3101>

, January 2003,

,

,

,

.

Gupta, M.
 and
DOI 10.17487/RFC4552

N. Melam "Authentication/Confidentiality for OSPFv3" RFC 4552

,

,

,

, June 2006,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4552>

.

,

Przygienda, T. Shen, N.
Intermediate System to Intermediate Systems (IS-ISs)" RFC 5120 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5120

N. Sheth "M-ISIS: Multi Topology (MT) Routing in

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5120>

, February 2008,

, and

,

,

,

.

 and

Li, T.
10.17487/RFC5304

R. Atkinson "IS-IS Cryptographic Authentication" RFC 5304 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5304>

, October 2008,

,

,

,

.

 and

Li, T.
,
10.17487/RFC5305

H. Smit "IS-IS Extensions for Traffic Engineering" RFC 5305 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5305>

, October 2008,

,

,

.

Hopps, C. "Routing IPv6 with IS-IS" RFC 5308 DOI 10.17487/RFC5308
2008,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5308>

.

,

,

, October

,

Bhatia, M. Manral, V. Li, T. Atkinson, R. White, R.
,
Cryptographic Authentication" RFC 5310 DOI 10.17487/RFC5310
,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5310>
.

, and

,

,

M. Fanto "IS-IS Generic

,
, February 2009,

Coltun, R. Ferguson, D. Moy, J.
10.17487/RFC5340

,
, July 2008,

,

, and

A. Lindem "OSPF for IPv6" RFC 5340 DOI

,

,

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5340>

.

,

Retana, A. Nguyen, L. Zinin, A. White, R.
Router Advertisement" RFC 6987 DOI 10.17487/RFC6987
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6987>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

D. McPherson "OSPF Stub

,

, September 2013,

Ginsberg, L. "Updates to the IS-IS TLV Codepoints Registry" RFC 7370 DOI
10.17487/RFC7370

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7370>

, September 2014,

,

,

,

.

,

Bhatia, M. Hartman, S. Zhang, D.
, and
OSPFv2 When Using Manual Key Management" RFC 7474 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7474

A. Lindem, Ed. "Security Extension for
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7474>

, April 2015,

,

,

,

.

,

Psenak, P. Gredler, H. Shakir, R. Henderickx, W. Tantsura, J.
"OSPFv2 Prefix/Link Attribute Advertisement" RFC 7684 DOI 10.17487/RFC7684
,
November 2015,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7684>

A. Lindem

, and

.

,

,

,

,

,

,

Ginsberg, L., Ed. Decraene, B. Previdi, S. Xu, X.
Attributes for Extended IPv4 and IPv6 Reachability" RFC 7794 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7794

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7794>

U. Chunduri "IS-IS Prefix
,

, March 2016,

, and
,

,

,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9929

IGP Unreachable Prefix Announcement

February 2026

[RFC8362]

[RFC8770]

[RFC9352]

[RFC9502]

[RFC9513]

[RFC9792]

,

Lindem, A. Roy, A. Goethals, D. Reddy Vallem, V.
State Advertisement (LSA) Extensibility" RFC 8362 DOI 10.17487/RFC8362
2018,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8362>

, and
,

F. Baker "OSPFv3 Link

,

,

.

,

,

, April

,

Patel, K. Pillay-Esnault, P. Bhardwaj, M.
, and
for OSPFv2" RFC 8770 DOI 10.17487/RFC8770
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc8770>

.

,

S. Bayraktar "Host Router Support
,
<https://www.rfc-
, April 2020,

,

Psenak, P., Ed. Filsfils, C. Bashandy, A. Decraene, B.
,
Extensions to Support Segment Routing over the IPv6 Data Plane" RFC 9352 DOI
10.17487/RFC9352

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9352>
.

, February 2023,

Z. Hu "IS-IS
,

, and

,

,

,

Britto, W. Hegde, S. Kaneriya, P. Shetty, R. Bonica, R.
,
Flexible Algorithm in IP Networks" RFC 9502 DOI 10.17487/RFC9502
, November
2023,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9502>

P. Psenak "IGP

, and

,

,

,

,

.

,

,

Li, Z. Hu, Z. Talaulikar, K., Ed.
Routing over IPv6 (SRv6)" RFC 9513 DOI 10.17487/RFC9513
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9513>

P. Psenak "OSPFv3 Extensions for Segment
,

, December 2023,

, and

,

,

.

,

Chen, R. Zhao, D. Psenak, P. Talaulikar, K.
,
for OSPFv2 and OSPFv3" RFC 9792 DOI 10.17487/RFC9792
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9792>

, and

,

,

,

.

,

L. Gong "Prefix Flag Extension
<https://
, June 2025,

9.2.  Informative References

[BGP-PIC]

,

Bashandy, A., Ed. Filsfils, C. Mohapatra, P.
Convergence" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-rtgwg-bgp-pic-23
,
February 2026,
pic-23>
.

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-rtgwg-bgp-

Y. Qu "BGP Prefix Independent
, 15

, and

,

,

,

Acknowledgements

The authors would like to thank
contributions and support of the overall solution proposed in this document.

Kamran Raza Michael MacKenzie

, and

,

Luay Jalil

 for their

Contributors

The following people contributed to the content of this document and should be considered
coauthors:

Stephane Litkowski
Email:

slitkows@cisco.com

Amit Dhamija
Email:

amitd@arrcus.com

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9929

IGP Unreachable Prefix Announcement

February 2026

Gunter Van de Velde
Email:

gunter.van_de_velde@nokia.com

The following people contributed to the problem statement and the solution requirement
discussion:

Aijun Wang
Email:

wangaj3@chinatelecom.cn

Zhibo Hu
Email:

huzhibo@huawei.com

Authors' Addresses

editor
)

Peter Psenak (
Cisco Systems
Pribinova Street 10
Bratislava 81109
Slovakia
Email:

ppsenak@cisco.com

Clarence Filsfils
Cisco Systems
Brussels
Belgium
Email:

cfilsfil@cisco.com

Daniel Voyer
Cisco Systems
Email:

davoyer@cisco.com

Shraddha Hegde
HPE
Email:

shraddha.hegde@hpe.com

Gyan Mishra
Verizon Inc.
Email:

hayabusagsm@gmail.com

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

