Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9925
5280
Standards Track
February 2026
2070-1721
D. Benjamin
Google LLC

RFC 9925
Unsigned X.509 Certificates

Abstract

This document defines a placeholder X.509 signature algorithm that may be used in contexts
where the consumer of the certificate is not expected to verify the signature. As part of this, it
updates RFC 5280.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9925
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2026 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Benjamin

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9925

Unsigned X.509 Certificates

February 2026

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Requirements Language

3.  Constructing Unsigned Certificates

3.1.  Signature

3.2.  Issuer

3.3.  Extensions

4.  Consuming Unsigned Certificates

5.  Security Considerations

6.  IANA Considerations

6.1.  Module Identifier

6.2.  Algorithm

6.3.  Relative Distinguished Name Attribute

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  ASN.1 Module

Acknowledgements

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

2

3

3

3

4

4

5

6

6

6

6

7

7

7

8

8

9

10

An X.509 certificate
proof from an issuer. Viewing the PKI as a graph with entities as nodes, as in
certificate is an edge between the subject and issuer.

[RFC5280]

 relates two entities in the PKI: information about a subject and a

[RFC4158]

, a

In some contexts, an application needs standalone subject information instead of a certificate. In
the graph model, the application needs a node, not an edge. For example, certification path
validation (
) begins at a trust anchor, sometimes referred to as a root
certification authority (root CA). The application trusts this trust anchor information out-of-band
and does not require an issuer's signature.

Section 6 of [RFC5280]

Benjamin

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9925

Unsigned X.509 Certificates

February 2026

X.509 does not define a structure for this scenario. Instead, X.509 trust anchors are often
represented with "self-signed" certificates, where the subject's key signs over itself. Other
formats, such as
widely used.

, exist to convey trust anchors, but self-signed certificates remain

[RFC5914]

Additionally, some TLS
they do not intend to present a CA-issued identity, instead expecting the relying party to
authenticate the certificate out-of-band, e.g., via a known fingerprint.

 server deployments use self-signed end entity certificates when

[RFC8446]

These self-signatures typically have no security value, aren't checked by the receiver, and only
serve as placeholders to meet syntactic requirements of an X.509 certificate.

Computing signatures as placeholders has some drawbacks:

•

Post-quantum signature algorithms are large, so including a self-signature significantly
increases the size of the payload.

•

If the subject is an end entity, rather than a CA, computing an X.509 signature risks cross-
protocol attacks with the intended use of the key.

•

It is ambiguous whether such a self-signature requires the CA bit in basic constraints or
keyCertSign in key usage. If the key is intended for a non-X.509 use, asserting those
capabilities is an unnecessary risk.

•

If the subject is an end entity, and the end entity's key is not a signing key (e.g., a Key
Encapsulation Mechanism (KEM) key), there is no valid signature algorithm to use with the
key.

This document defines a profile for unsigned X.509 certificates, which may be used when the
certificate is used as a container for subject information, without any specific issuer.

2.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Constructing Unsigned Certificates

This section describes how a sender constructs an unsigned certificate.

3.1.  Signature

To construct an unsigned X.509 certificate, the sender
signatureAlgorithm and TBSCertificate's signature fields each to an AlgorithmIdentifier with
algorithm id-alg-unsigned, defined below:

 set the Certificate's

MUST

Benjamin

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9925

Unsigned X.509 Certificates

February 2026

  id-alg-unsigned OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= {1 3 6 1 5 5 7 6 36}

The parameters for id-alg-unsigned
be a BIT STRING of length zero.

MUST

 be omitted. The Certificate's signatureValue field

MUST

3.2.  Issuer

An unsigned certificate takes the place of a self-signed certificate in scenarios where the
application only requires subject information. It has no issuer, so some requirements in the
[RFC5280]
profile defined in
 cannot meaningfully be applied. However, the application may
have pre-existing requirements derived from
, so senders
the certificate as if it were a self-signed certificate, if needed for interoperability.

[RFC5280]

[X.509]

 and

MAY

 construct

In particular, the following fields describe a certificate's issuer:

•

issuer (

Section 4.1.2.4 of [RFC5280]
)

•

issuerUniqueID (

Section 4.1.2.8 of [RFC5280]
)

The issuer field is not optional, and both
issuers, so such a value may not be interoperable with existing applications.

Section 4.1.2.4 of [RFC5280]

[X.509]

 and

 forbid empty

If the subject is not empty, senders
 set the issuer to the subject, similar to how they would
construct a self-signed certificate. This may be useful in applications that, for example, expect
trust anchors to have a matching issuer and subject. This is, however, a placeholder value. The
unsigned certificate is not considered self-signed or self-issued.

MAY

MAY

 alternatively use a short placeholder issuer consisting of a single relative

Senders
distinguished name that has a single attribute with a type of id-rdna-unsigned and value of a
zero-length UTF8String. id-rdna-unsigned is defined as follows:

  id-rdna-unsigned OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= {1 3 6 1 5 5 7 25 1}

This placeholder name, in the string representation of

[RFC4514]

, is:

  1.3.6.1.5.5.7.25.1=#0C00

Senders
MUST
forbidden by

 omit the issuerUniqueID field, as it is optional, not applicable, and already
Section 4.1.2.8 of [RFC5280]
.

3.3.  Extensions

Some X.509 extensions also describe the certificate issuer and thus are not meaningful for an
unsigned certificate:

•

authority key identifier (

Section 4.2.1.1 of [RFC5280]
)

Benjamin

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9925

Unsigned X.509 Certificates

February 2026

•

issuer alternative name (

Section 4.2.1.7 of [RFC5280]
)

 omit the authority key identifier and issuer alternative name extensions.

Senders
SHOULD
Section 4.2.1.1 of [RFC5280]
permits an exception for self-signed certificates used when distributing a public key. This
document updates
certificates.

 requires certificates to include the authority key identifier, but it

 to also permit omitting the authority key identifier in unsigned

[RFC5280]

Some extensions reflect whether the subject is a CA or an end entity:

•

key usage (

Section 4.2.1.3 of [RFC5280]
)

•

basic constraints (

Section 4.2.1.9 of [RFC5280]
)

Senders

SHOULD

 fill in these values to reflect the subject. That is:

•

If the subject is a CA, it
basic constraints extension that sets the cA boolean to TRUE.

 assert the keyCertSign key usage bit and

SHOULD

SHOULD

 include a

•

 either omit the basic constraints extension or set the cA boolean to FALSE. Unlike a

If the subject is an end entity, it
SHOULD
self-signed certificate, an unsigned certificate does not issue itself, so there is no need to
accommodate a self-signature in either extension.

 assert the keyCertSign key usage bit, and it

SHOULD NOT

4.  Consuming Unsigned Certificates

X.509 signatures of type id-alg-unsigned are always invalid:

•

When processing X.509 certificates without verifying signatures, receivers
unsigned.

MAY

 accept id-alg-

•

When verifying X.509 signatures, receivers

MUST

 reject id-alg-unsigned.

In particular, X.509 validators
certification path.

MUST NOT

 accept id-alg-unsigned in the place of a signature in the

It is expected that most unmodified X.509 applications will already be compliant with this
guidance. X.509 applications are thus
RECOMMENDED
this document and instead treating id-alg-unsigned as the same as an unrecognized signature
algorithm. An unmodified X.509 validator will be unable to verify the signature (Step (a.1) of
Section 6.1.3 of [RFC5280]
an X.509 application was ignoring the self-signature, id-alg-unsigned will also be ignored but
more efficiently.

) and thus reject the certification path. Conversely, in contexts where

 to satisfy these requirements by ignoring

In other contexts, an application may require modifications or limit itself to particular forms of
unsigned certificates. For example, an application might check self-signedness to classify locally
configured certificates as trust anchors or untrusted intermediates. Such an application may
need to modify its configuration model or user interface before using an unsigned certificate as
a trust anchor.

Benjamin

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9925

Unsigned X.509 Certificates

February 2026

5.  Security Considerations

It is best practice to limit cryptographic keys to a single purpose each. If a key is reused across
contexts, applications risk cross-protocol attacks when the two uses collide. However, in
applications that use self-signed end entity certificates, the subject's key is necessarily used in
two ways: the X.509 self-signature and the end entity protocol. Unsigned certificates fix this key
reuse by removing the X.509 self-signature.

If an application accepts id-alg-unsigned as part of a certification path, or in any other context
where it is necessary to verify the X.509 signature, the signature check would be bypassed. Thus,
Section 4 prohibits this and recommends that applications treat id-alg-unsigned the same as any
other previously unrecognized signature algorithm. Non-compliant applications risk
vulnerabilities analogous to those described in

Section 1.1 of [JOSE]
.

[JWT]

 and

The signature in a self-signed certificate is self-derived and thus of limited use to convey trust.
However, some applications might, for example, use it as an integrity check to guard against
accidental storage corruption. An unsigned certificate does not provide any integrity check.
Applications checking self-signature for integrity
such as an external hash that is verified out-of-band.

 instead use some other mechanism,

SHOULD

6.  IANA Considerations

6.1.  Module Identifier

IANA has added the following entry in the "SMI Security for PKIX Module Identifier" registry,
defined by

[RFC7299]
:

Decimal Description

Reference

122

id-mod-algUnsigned-2025

RFC 9925

Table 1

6.2.  Algorithm

IANA has added the following entry to the "SMI Security for PKIX Algorithms" registry

[RFC7299]
:

Decimal Description

Reference

36

id-alg-unsigned

RFC 9925

Table 2

Benjamin

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9925

Unsigned X.509 Certificates

February 2026

6.3.  Relative Distinguished Name Attribute

To allocate id-rdna-unsigned, this document introduces a new PKIX OID arc for relative
distinguished name attributes:

IANA has added the following entry to the "SMI Security for PKIX" registry

[RFC7299]
:

Decimal Description

Reference

25

Relative Distinguished Name Attribute

RFC 9925

Table 3

IANA has created the "SMI Security for PKIX Relative Distinguished Name Attribute" registry
within the "Structure of Management Information (SMI) Numbers (MIB Module Registrations)"
registry group.

The new registry's description is "iso.org.dod.internet.security.mechanisms.pkix.rdna
(1.3.6.1.5.5.7.25)".

The new registry has three columns and is initialized with the following values:

Decimal Description

Reference

1

id-rdna-unsigned

RFC 9925

Table 4

Future updates to this table are to be made according to the Specification Required policy as
defined in

[RFC8126]
.

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC5280]

[RFC5912]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

,

Cooper, D. Santesson, S. Farrell, S. Boeyen, S. Housley, R.
"Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certificate and Certificate Revocation
List (CRL) Profile" RFC 5280 DOI 10.17487/RFC5280
editor.org/info/rfc5280>

, May 2008,

<https://www.rfc-

W. Polk

, and

,

,

,

,

,

.

 and

J. Schaad "New ASN.1 Modules for the Public Key

Hoffman, P.
Infrastructure Using X.509 (PKIX)" RFC 5912 DOI 10.17487/RFC5912
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5912>

,

,

.

, June 2010,

Benjamin

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9925

Unsigned X.509 Certificates

February 2026

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

, June

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

7.2.  Informative References

[JOSE]

[JWT]

[RFC4158]

[RFC4514]

[RFC5914]

[RFC7299]

[RFC8446]

[X.509]

,

Madden, N. "JOSE: Deprecate 'none' and 'RSA1_5'" Work in Progress Internet-
Draft, draft-ietf-jose-deprecate-none-rsa15-03
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-jose-deprecate-none-rsa15-03>

, 19 September 2025,

<https://
.

,

,

Sanderson, J. "How Many Days Has It Been Since a JWT alg:none
Vulnerability?" <https://www.howmanydayssinceajwtalgnonevuln.com/>

,

,

.

,

Cooper, M. Dzambasow, Y. Hesse, P. Joseph, S.
R. Nicholas "Internet X.509
,
Public Key Infrastructure: Certification Path Building" RFC 4158 DOI 10.17487/
,
RFC4158

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4158>

, September 2005,

, and

,

,

,

.

,

Zeilenga, K., Ed. "Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP): String
Representation of Distinguished Names" RFC 4514 DOI 10.17487/RFC4514
2006,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4514>

,

,

.

, June

Housley, R. Ashmore, S.
,
10.17487/RFC5914

, and
, June 2010,

C. Wallace "Trust Anchor Format" RFC 5914 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5914>

,

,

,

.

Housley, R. "Object Identifier Registry for the PKIX Working Group" RFC 7299
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC7299

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7299>

, July 2014,

,

.

,

Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
,
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>

, August 2018,

,

.

,

ITU-T "Information technology - Open Systems Interconnection - The Directory:
Public-key and attribute certificate frameworks" ITU-T Recommendation X.509
,
ISO/IEC 9594-8:2020

<https://www.itu.int/rec/t-rec-x.509/en>

, October 2019,

,

.

Appendix A.  ASN.1 Module

This ASN.1 module uses the conventions established by

[RFC5912]
.

Benjamin

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9925

Unsigned X.509 Certificates

February 2026

SignatureAlgorithmNone
  { iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1)
    security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) id-mod(0)
    id-mod-algUnsigned-2025(122) }

DEFINITIONS IMPLICIT TAGS ::=
BEGIN

IMPORTS
  SIGNATURE-ALGORITHM
  FROM AlgorithmInformation-2009  -- in [RFC5912]
    { iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1)
      security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) id-mod(0)
      id-mod-algorithmInformation-02(58) }
  ATTRIBUTE
  FROM PKIX-CommonTypes-2009 -- in [RFC5912]
    { iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1)
      security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) id-mod(0)
      id-mod-pkixCommon-02(57) } ;

-- Unsigned Signature Algorithm

id-alg-unsigned OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { iso(1)
   identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1) security(5)
   mechanisms(5) pkix(7) alg(6) 36 }

sa-unsigned SIGNATURE-ALGORITHM ::= {
   IDENTIFIER id-alg-unsigned
   PARAMS ARE absent
}

id-rdna-unsigned OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { iso(1)
   identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1) security(5)
   mechanisms(5) pkix(7) rdna(25) 1 }

at-unsigned ATTRIBUTE ::= {
   TYPE UTF8String (SIZE (0))
   IDENTIFIED BY id-rdna-unsigned
}

END

Acknowledgements

,
Thanks to
document. Thanks to
for additional input.

Bob Beck Nick Harper
Alex Gaynor

Sophie Schmieg

, and
 for providing a link to cite for

 for reviewing an early iteration of this

[JWT]

. Thanks to

Russ Housley

Benjamin

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9925

Unsigned X.509 Certificates

February 2026

Author's Address

David Benjamin
Google LLC
Email:

davidben@google.com

Benjamin

Standards Track

Page 10

