Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9077
4034, 4035, 5155, 8198
Standards Track
July 2021
2070-1721
P. van Dijk
PowerDNS

RFC 9077
NSEC and NSEC3: TTLs and Aggressive Use

Abstract

Due to a combination of unfortunate wording in earlier documents, aggressive use of NSEC and
NSEC3 records may deny the existence of names far beyond the intended lifetime of a denial.
This document changes the deﬁnition of the NSEC and NSEC3 TTL to correct that situation. This
document updates RFCs 4034, 4035, 5155, and 8198.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9077

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

van Dijk

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9077

NSEC TTL

July 2021

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Conventions and Deﬁnitions

3.  NSEC and NSEC3 TTL Changes

3.1.  Updates to RFC 4034

3.2.  Updates to RFC 4035

3.3.  Updates to RFC 5155

3.4.  Updates to RFC 8198

4.  Zone Operator Considerations

4.1.  A Note on Wildcards

5.  Security Considerations

6.  IANA Considerations

7.  Normative References

Acknowledgements

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

[RFC2308]
negative answers (NXDOMAIN or NODATA):

 deﬁnes the TTL of the Start of Authority (SOA) record that must be returned in

The TTL of this record is set from the minimum of the MINIMUM ﬁeld of the SOA record
and the TTL of the SOA itself, and indicates how long a resolver may cache the negative
answer.

Thus, if the TTL of the SOA in the zone is lower than the SOA MINIMUM value (the last number in
the SOA record), the authoritative server sends that lower value as the TTL of the returned SOA
record. The resolver always uses the TTL of the returned SOA record when setting the negative
TTL in its cache.

However,

[RFC4034], Section 4

 has this unfortunate text:

van Dijk

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9077

NSEC TTL

July 2021

The NSEC RR
the spirit of negative caching (

SHOULD

[RFC2308]

).

 have the same TTL value as the SOA minimum TTL ﬁeld. This is in

This text, while referring to
the appropriate negative TTL for a zone.

[RFC2308]

, can cause NSEC records to have much higher TTLs than

[RFC5155]

 contains equivalent text.

[RFC8198], Section 5.4

 tries to correct this:

 also states that a negative cache entry TTL is taken from the

Section 5 of [RFC2308]
minimum of the SOA.MINIMUM ﬁeld and SOA's TTL. This can be less than the TTL of an
NSEC or NSEC3 record, since their TTL is equal to the SOA.MINIMUM ﬁeld (see
[RFC4035], Section 2.3

[RFC5155], Section 3

 and

).

A resolver that supports aggressive use of NSEC and NSEC3
 reduce the TTL of
NSEC and NSEC3 records to match the SOA.MINIMUM ﬁeld in the authority section of a
negative response, if SOA.MINIMUM is smaller.

SHOULD

But the NSEC and NSEC3 RRs should, according to
value of the MINIMUM ﬁeld in the SOA. Thus, the advice from
change the TTL used for the NSEC and NSEC3 RRs for authoritative servers that follow the RFCs.

 would not actually

, already be at the

[RFC5155]

[RFC8198]

[RFC4034]

 and

As a theoretical exercise, consider a top-level domain (TLD) named .example with an SOA record
like this:

example.    900 IN  SOA primary.example. dnsadmin.example. (
                                         1 1800 900 604800 86400 )

The SOA record has a 900-second TTL and an 86400-second MINIMUM TTL. Negative responses
from this zone have a 900-second TTL, but the NSEC or NSEC3 records in those negative
responses have an 86400-second TTL. If a resolver were to use those NSEC or NSEC3 records
aggressively, they would be considered valid for a day instead of the intended 15 minutes.

2.  Conventions and Deﬁnitions

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

van Dijk

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9077

NSEC TTL

July 2021

3.  NSEC and NSEC3 TTL Changes

[RFC4034] [RFC4035]
, and
,
prior to the publication of

[RFC5155]
[RFC8198]

 use the
 when

SHOULD
[RFC4035]

 requirement level, but they were written
 still said:

However, it seems prudent for resolvers to avoid blocking new authoritative data or
synthesizing new data on their own.

[RFC8198]

 updated that text to contain:

...DNSSEC-enabled validating resolvers
records to generate positive and negative responses until the eﬀective TTLs or
signatures for those records expire.

SHOULD

 use wildcards and NSEC/NSEC3 resource

This means that the correctness of NSEC and NSEC3 records and their TTLs has become much
more important. Because of that, the updates in this document upgrade the requirement level to
.
MUST

3.1.  Updates to RFC 4034

[RFC4034]

 says:

The NSEC RR
the spirit of negative caching (

SHOULD

[RFC2308]

).

 have the same TTL value as the SOA minimum TTL ﬁeld. This is in

This is updated to say:

The TTL of the NSEC RR that is returned
SOA record and the TTL of the SOA itself. This matches the deﬁnition of the TTL for
negative responses in
chain, a transient inconsistency between the observed and expected TTL

. Because some signers incrementally update the NSEC

 be the lesser of the MINIMUM ﬁeld of the

[RFC2308]

 exist.

MUST

MAY

3.2.  Updates to RFC 4035

[RFC4035]

 says:

van Dijk

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9077

NSEC TTL

July 2021

The TTL value for any NSEC RR
the zone SOA RR.

SHOULD

 be the same as the minimum TTL value ﬁeld in

This is updated to say:

The TTL of the NSEC RR that is returned
SOA record and the TTL of the SOA itself. This matches the deﬁnition of the TTL for
negative responses in
chain, a transient inconsistency between the observed and expected TTL

. Because some signers incrementally update the NSEC

 be the lesser of the MINIMUM ﬁeld of the

[RFC2308]

 exist.

MUST

MAY

3.3.  Updates to RFC 5155

[RFC5155]

 says:

The NSEC3 RR
in the spirit of negative caching

SHOULD

[RFC2308]

.

 have the same TTL value as the SOA minimum TTL ﬁeld. This is

This is updated to say:

The TTL of the NSEC3 RR that is returned
MUST
the SOA record and the TTL of the SOA itself. This matches the deﬁnition of the TTL for
negative responses in
chain, a transient inconsistency between the observed and expected TTL

. Because some signers incrementally update the NSEC3

 be the lesser of the MINIMUM ﬁeld of

[RFC2308]

 exist.

MAY

Where

[RFC5155]

 says:

•

The TTL value for any NSEC3 RR
ﬁeld in the zone SOA RR.

SHOULD

 be the same as the minimum TTL value

This is updated to say:

•

The TTL value for each NSEC3 RR
MUST
zone SOA RR and the TTL of the zone SOA RR itself. Because some signers

 be the lesser of the MINIMUM ﬁeld of the

van Dijk

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9077

NSEC TTL

July 2021

incrementally update the NSEC3 chain, a transient inconsistency between the
observed and expected TTL

 exist.

MAY

3.4.  Updates to RFC 8198

[RFC8198], Section 5.4

 ("Consideration on TTL") is completely replaced by the following text:

The TTL value of negative information is especially important, because newly added
domain names cannot be used while the negative information is eﬀective.

Section 5 of [RFC2308]
(10800). It is
value of negative responses (NSEC/NSEC3 RRs) to this same value.

 suggests a maximum default negative cache TTL value of 3 hours
 that validating resolvers limit the maximum eﬀective TTL

RECOMMENDED

A resolver that supports aggressive use of NSEC and NSEC3
 limit the TTL of NSEC
and NSEC3 records to the lesser of the SOA.MINIMUM ﬁeld and the TTL of the SOA in a
response, if present. It
values.

 also use a previously cached SOA for a zone to ﬁnd these

MAY

MAY

(The third paragraph of the original is removed, and the fourth paragraph is updated to allow
resolvers to also take the lesser of the SOA TTL and SOA MINIMUM.)

4.  Zone Operator Considerations

If signers and DNS servers for a zone cannot immediately be updated to conform to this
document, zone operators are encouraged to consider setting their SOA record TTL and the SOA
MINIMUM ﬁeld to the same value. That way, the TTL used for aggressive NSEC and NSEC3 use
matches the SOA TTL for negative responses.

Note that some signers might use the SOA TTL or MINIMUM as a default for other values, such as
the TTL for DNSKEY records. Operators should consult documentation before changing values.

4.1.  A Note on Wildcards

Validating resolvers consider an expanded wildcard valid for the wildcard's TTL, capped by the
TTLs of the NSEC or NSEC3 proof that shows that the wildcard expansion is legal. Thus, changing
the TTL of NSEC or NSEC3 records (explicitly, or by implementation of this document implicitly)
might aﬀect (shorten) the lifetime of wildcards.

van Dijk

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9077

NSEC TTL

July 2021

5.  Security Considerations

An attacker can delay future records from appearing in a cache by seeding the cache with
queries that cause NSEC or NSEC3 responses to be cached for aggressive use purposes. This
document reduces the impact of that attack in cases where the NSEC or NSEC3 TTL is higher than
the zone operator intended.

6.  IANA Considerations

IANA has added a reference to this document in the "Resource Record (RR) TYPEs" subregistry of
the "Domain Name System (DNS) Parameters" registry for the NSEC and NSEC3 types.

7.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC2308]

[RFC4034]

[RFC4035]

[RFC5155]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8198]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Andrews, M. "Negative Caching of DNS Queries (DNS NCACHE)" RFC 2308 DOI
10.17487/RFC2308

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2308>

, March 1998,

,
.

,

,

,

,
Arends, R. Austein, R. Larson, M. Massey, D.
,
the DNS Security Extensions" RFC 4034 DOI 10.17487/RFC4034
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4034>

, and

,

,

,

.

S. Rose "Resource Records for

, March 2005,

,

,
Arends, R. Austein, R. Larson, M. Massey, D.
Modiﬁcations for the DNS Security Extensions" RFC 4035 DOI 10.17487/
RFC4035

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4035>

S. Rose "Protocol

, March 2005,

, and
,

,
,

,

.

,

, and
Laurie, B. Sisson, G. Arends, R.
,
Authenticated Denial of Existence" RFC 5155 DOI 10.17487/RFC5155
2008,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5155>

D. Blacka "DNS Security (DNSSEC) Hashed

, March

,

.

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

,

Fujiwara, K. Kato, A.
,
Cache" RFC 8198 DOI 10.17487/RFC8198
info/rfc8198>

, and

,

,

.

W. Kumari "Aggressive Use of DNSSEC-Validated

, July 2017,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

Acknowledgements

This document was made possible with the help of the following people:

• Ralph Dolmans

van Dijk

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9077

NSEC TTL

July 2021

• Warren Kumari

• Matthijs Mekking

• Vladimir Cunat

• Matt Nordhoﬀ

• Josh Soref

• Tim Wicinski

The author would like to explicitly thank
contributions, and help in navigating WG comments.

Paul Hoﬀman

 for the extensive reviews, text

Author's Address

Peter van Dijk
PowerDNS
Den Haag
Netherlands
Email:

 peter.van.dijk@powerdns.com

van Dijk

Standards Track

Page 8

