Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9391
Standards Track
April 2023
2070-1721
E. Ramos
Ericsson

A. Minaburo
Acklio

RFC 9391
Static Context Header Compression over
Narrowband Internet of Things

Abstract

This document describes Static Context Header Compression and fragmentation (SCHC)
specifications, RFCs 8724 and 8824, in combination with the 3rd Generation Partnership Project
(3GPP) and the Narrowband Internet of Things (NB-IoT).

This document has two parts: one normative part that specifies the use of SCHC over NB-IoT and
one informational part that recommends some values if 3GPP wants to use SCHC inside their
architectures.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9391
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Ramos & Minaburo

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9391

LPWAN SCHC NB-IoT

April 2023

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Conventions and Definitions

3.  Terminology

4.  NB-IoT Architecture

5.  Data Transmission in the 3GPP Architecture

5.1.  Normative Scenarios

5.1.1.  SCHC over Non-IP Data Delivery (NIDD)

5.2.  Informational Scenarios

5.2.1.  Use of SCHC over the Radio Link

5.2.2.  Use of SCHC over the Non-Access Stratum (NAS)

5.2.3.  Parameters for Static Context Header Compression and Fragmentation (SCHC) for

the Radio Link and DoNAS Use Cases

6.  Padding

7.  IANA Considerations

8.  Security Considerations

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  NB-IoT User Plane Protocol Architecture

A.1.  Packet Data Convergence Protocol (PDCP)

A.2.  Radio Link Protocol (RLC)

A.3.  Medium Access Control (MAC)

Appendix B.  NB-IoT Data over NAS (DoNAS)

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

Ramos & Minaburo

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9391

LPWAN SCHC NB-IoT

April 2023

1.  Introduction

This document defines scenarios where Static Context Header Compression and fragmentation
(SCHC)
Narrowband Internet of Things (NB-IoT) protocol stacks.

 are suitable for 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) and

[RFC8724] [RFC8824]

In the 3GPP and the NB-IoT networks, header compression efficiently brings Internet
connectivity to the Device UE (Dev-UE), the radio (RGW-eNB) and network (NGW-MME) gateways,
and the Application Server. This document describes the SCHC parameters supporting SCHC over
the NB-IoT architecture.

This document assumes functionality for NB-IoT of 3GPP release 15
text explicitly mentions other versions' functionality.

[R15-3GPP]

. Otherwise, the

This document has two parts: normative end-to-end scenarios describing how any application
must use SCHC over the 3GPP public service and informational scenarios about how 3GPP could
use SCHC in their protocol stack network.

2.  Conventions and Definitions

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Terminology

This document will follow the terms defined in

[RFC8724] [RFC8376]
,

, and

[TR23720]
.

Capillary Gateway:

Facilitates seamless integration because it has wide-area connectivity

through cellular and provides wide-area access as a proxy to other devices using LAN
technologies (BT, Wi-Fi, Zigbee, or others).

Cellular IoT Evolved Packet System (CIoT EPS):

A functionality to improve the support of small

data transfers.

Device UE (Dev-UE):

As defined in

[RFC8376], Section 3

.

Data over Non-Access Stratum (DoNAS):

Sending user data within signaling messages over the

NAS functional layer.

Evolved Packet Connectivity (EPC):

Core network of 3GPP LTE systems.

Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (EUTRAN):

Radio access network of LTE-

based systems.

Ramos & Minaburo

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9391

LPWAN SCHC NB-IoT

April 2023

Hybrid Automatic Repeat reQuest (HARQ):

A combination of high-rate Forward Error

Correction (FEC) and Automatic Repeat reQuest (ARQ) error control.

Home Subscriber Server (HSS):

A database that contains users' subscription data, including

data needed for mobility management.

IP address:

IPv6 or IPv4 address used.

InterWorking Service Capabilities Exposure Function (IWK-SCEF):

Used in roaming scenarios, is

located in the Visited PLMN, and serves for interconnection with the Service Capabilities
Exposure Function (SCEF) of the Home PLMN.

Layer 2 (L2):

L2 in the 3GPP architectures includes MAC, RLC, and PDCP layers; see Appendix A.

Logical Channel ID (LCID):

The logical channel instance of the corresponding MAC SDU.

Medium Access Control (MAC) protocol:

Part of L2.

Non-Access Stratum (NAS):

Functional layer for signaling messages that establishes

communication sessions and maintains the communication while the user moves.

Narrowband IoT (NB-IoT):

A 3GPP Low-Power WAN (LPWAN) technology based on the LTE
architecture but with additional optimization for IoT and using a Narrowband spectrum
frequency.

Network Gateway - CIoT Serving Gateway Node (NGW-CSGN):

As defined in

[RFC8376], Section

3

.

Network Gateway - Cellular Serving Gateway (NGW-CSGW):

Routes and forwards the user data

packets through the access network.

Network Gateway - Mobility Management Entity (NGW-MME):

An entity in charge of handling

mobility of the Dev-UE.

Network Gateway - Packet Data Network Gateway (NGW-PGW):

An interface between the

internal and external network.

Network Gateway - Service Capability Exposure Function (NGW-SCEF):
of 3GPP network service capabilities to third party applications.

EPC node for exposure

Non-IP Data Delivery (NIDD):

End-to-end communication between the UE and the Application

Server.

Packet Data Convergence Protocol (PDCP):

Part of L2.

Public Land-based Mobile Network (PLMN):

A combination of wireless communication services

offered by a specific operator.

Protocol Data Unit (PDU):
through a protocol.

A data packet including headers that are transmitted between entities

Radio Link Protocol (RLC):

Part of L2.

Ramos & Minaburo

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9391

LPWAN SCHC NB-IoT

April 2023

Radio Gateway - evolved Node B (RGW-eNB):

Base Station that controls the UE.

Service Data Unit (SDU):

A data packet (PDU) from higher-layer protocols used by lower-layer

protocols as a payload of their own PDUs.

4.  NB-IoT Architecture

The NB-IoT architecture has a complex structure. It relies on different Network Gateways (NGWs)
from different providers. It can send data via different paths, each with different characteristics
in terms of bandwidth, acknowledgments, and L2 reliability and segmentation.

Figure 1 shows this architecture, where the Network Gateway - Cellular IoT Serving Gateway
Node (NGW-CSGN) optimizes co-locating entities in different paths. For example, a Dev-UE using
the path formed by the Network Gateway - Mobility Management Entity (NGW-MME), the NGW-
CSGW, and the Network Gateway - Packet Data Network Gateway (NGW-PGW) may get a limited
bandwidth transmission from a few bytes/s to one thousand bytes/s only.

Another node introduced in the NB-IoT architecture is the Network Gateway - Service Capability
Exposure Function (NGW-SCEF), which securely exposes service and network capabilities to
entities external to the network operator. The Open Mobile Alliance (OMA)
One Machine to Machine (OneM2M)
 define the northbound APIs.
architecture for the common API framework for 3GPP northbound APIs.
security aspects for a common API framework for 3GPP northbound APIs. In this case, the path is
small for data transmission. The main functions of the NGW-SCEF are path connectivity and
device monitoring.

[OMA0116]
[TS23222]

[TS33122]

[TR-0024]

 and the

 defines

 defines

+---+              +---------+    +------+
|Dev| \            | +-----+ | ---| HSS  |
|-UE|  \           | | NGW | |    +------+
+---+  |           | |-MME |\__
        \          / +-----+ | \
+---+    \+-----+ /|   |     | +------+
|Dev| ----| RGW |- |   |     | | NGW- |
|-UE|     |-eNB |  |   |     | | SCEF |---------+
+---+    /+-----+ \|   |     | +------+         |
        /          \ +------+|                  |
       /           |\| NGW- || +-----+   +-----------+
+---+ /            | | CSGW |--| NGW-|---|Application|
|Dev|              | |      || | PGW |   |   Server  |
|-UE|              | +------+| +-----+   +-----------+
+---+              |         |
                   |NGW-CSGN |
                   +---------+

Figure 1: 3GPP Network Architecture

Ramos & Minaburo

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9391

LPWAN SCHC NB-IoT

April 2023

5.  Data Transmission in the 3GPP Architecture

NB-IoT networks deal with end-to-end user data and in-band signaling between the nodes and
functions to configure, control, and monitor the system functions and behaviors. The signaling
uses a different path with specific protocols, handling processes, and entities but can transport
end-to-end user data for IoT services. In contrast, the end-to-end application only transports end-
to-end data.

The recommended 3GPP MTU size is 1358 bytes. The radio network protocols limit the packet
sizes over the air, including radio protocol overhead, to 1600 bytes; see Section 5.2.3. However,
the recommended 3GPP MTU is smaller to avoid fragmentation in the network backbone due to
the payload encryption size (multiple of 16) and the additional core transport overhead handling.

3GPP standardizes NB-IoT and, in general, the interfaces and functions of cellular technologies.
Therefore, the introduction of SCHC entities to Dev-UE, RGW-eNB, and NGW-CSGN needs to be
specified in the NB-IoT standard.

This document identifies the use cases of SCHC over the NB-IoT architecture.

The first use case is of the radio transmission (see Section 5.2.1) where the Dev-UE and the RGW-
eNB can use the SCHC functionalities.

The second is where the packets transmitted over the control path can also use SCHC when the
transmission goes over the NGW-MME or NGW-SCEF (see Section 5.2.2).

These two use cases are also valid for any 3GPP architecture and not only for NB-IoT. And as the
3GPP internal network is involved, they have been put in the informational part of this section.

And the third covers the SCHC over Non-IP Data Delivery (NIDD) connection or at least up to the
operator network edge (see Section 5.1.1). In this case, SCHC functionalities are available in the
application layer of the Dev-UE and the Application Servers or a broker function at the edge of
the operator network. NGW-PGW or NGW-SCEF transmit the packets that are Non-IP traffic, using
IP tunneling or API calls. It is also possible to benefit legacy devices with SCHC by using the Non-
IP transmission features of the operator network.

A Non-IP transmission refers to an L2 transport that is different from NB-IoT.

5.1.  Normative Scenarios

These scenarios do not modify the 3GPP architecture or any of its components. They only use the
architecture as an L2 transmission.

5.1.1.  SCHC over Non-IP Data Delivery (NIDD)

This section specifies the use of SCHC over NIDD services of 3GPP. The NIDD services of 3GPP
enable the transmission of SCHC packets compressed by the application layer. The packets can be
delivered between the NGW-PGW and the Application Server or between the NGW-SCEF and the

Ramos & Minaburo

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9391

LPWAN SCHC NB-IoT

April 2023

Application Server, using IP-tunnels or API calls. In both cases, as compression occurs before
transmission, the network will not understand the packet, and the network does not have
context information of this compression. Therefore, the network will treat the packet as Non-IP
traffic and deliver it to the other side without any other protocol stack element, directly over L2.

5.1.1.1.  SCHC Entities Placing over NIDD

In the two scenarios using NIDD compression, SCHC entities are located almost on top of the
stack. The NB-IoT connectivity services implement SCHC in the Dev-UE, an in the Application
Server. The IP tunneling scenario requires that the Application Server send the compressed
packet over an IP connection terminated by the 3GPP core network. If the transmission uses the
NGW-SCEF services, it is possible to utilize an API call to transfer the SCHC packets between the
core network and the Application Server. Also, an IP tunnel could be established by the
Application Server if negotiated with the NGW-SCEF.

+---------+       XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX             +--------+
| SCHC    |      XXX                    XXX            | SCHC   |
|(Non-IP) +-----XX........................XX....+--*---+(Non-IP)|
+---------+    XX                  +----+  XX   |  |   +--------+
|         |    XX                  |SCEF+-------+  |   |        |
|         |   XXX     3GPP RAN &   +----+  XXX     +---+  UDP   |
|         |   XXX    CORE NETWORK          XXX     |   |        |
|  L2     +---+XX                  +------------+  |   +--------+
|         |     XX                 |IP TUNNELING+--+   |        |
|         |      XXX               +------------+  +---+  IP    |
+---------+       XXXX                 XXXX        |   +--------+
| PHY     +------+ XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX         +---+  PHY   |
+---------+                                            +--------+
  Dev-UE                                              Application
                                                         Server

Figure 2: End-to-End Compression: SCHC Entities Placed when Using Non-IP Delivery (NIDD) 3GPP
Services

5.1.1.2.  Parameters for Static Context Header Compression and Fragmentation (SCHC)

These scenarios
IPv6 packets.

MAY

 use the SCHC header compression capability to improve the transmission of

•

SCHC Context Initialization

The application layer handles the static context. Consequently, the context distribution
be according to the application's capabilities, perhaps utilizing IP data transmissions up to
context initialization. Also, the static context delivery may use the same IP tunneling or
NGW-SCEF services used later for the transport of SCHC packets.

MUST

•

SCHC Rules

For devices acting as a capillary gateway, several rules match the diversity of devices and
protocols used by the devices associated with the gateway. Meanwhile, simpler devices may
have predetermined protocols and fixed parameters.

Ramos & Minaburo

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9391

LPWAN SCHC NB-IoT

April 2023

•

RuleID

SHOULD NOT

This scenario can dynamically set the RuleID size before the context delivery, for example,
by negotiating between the applications when choosing a profile according to the type of
traffic and application deployed. Transmission optimization may require only one Physical
Layer transmission. SCHC overhead
 exceed the available number of effective
bits of the smallest physical Transport Block (TB) available to optimize the transmission. The
packets handled by 3GPP networks are byte-aligned. Thus, to use the smallest TB, the
maximum SCHC header size is 12 bits. On the other hand, more complex NB-IoT devices
(such as a capillary gateway) might require additional bits to handle the variety and multiple
parameters of higher-layer protocols deployed. The configuration may be part of the agreed
operation profile and content distribution. The RuleID field size may range from 2 bits,
resulting in 4 rules, to an 8-bit value, yielding up to 256 rules for use by operators. A 256-rule
maximum limit seems to be quite reasonable, even for a device acting as a NAT. An
application may use a larger RuleID, but it should consider the byte alignment of the
expected Compression Residue. In the minimum TB size case, 2 bits of RuleID leave only 6
bits available for Compression Residue.

•

SCHC MAX_PACKET_SIZE

 MTU size is 1358 bytes since the SCHC
In these scenarios, the maximum
packets (and fragments) are traversing the whole 3GPP network infrastructure (core and
radio), not only the radio as in the IP transmissions case.

RECOMMENDED

•

Fragmentation

Packets larger than 1358 bytes need the SCHC fragmentation function. Since the 3GPP uses
reliability functions, the No-ACK fragmentation mode
connections. Nevertheless, additional considerations are described below for more complex
cases.

 be enough in point-to-point

MAY

•

Fragmentation Modes

A global service assigns a QoS to the packets, e.g., depending on the billing. Packets with very
low QoS may get lost before arriving in the 3GPP radio network transmission, e.g., in
between the links of a capillary gateway or due to buffer overflow handling in a backhaul
connection. The use of SCHC fragmentation with the ACK-on-Error mode is
RECOMMENDED
to secure additional reliability on the packets transmitted with a small trade-off on further
transmissions to signal the end-to-end arrival of the packets if no transport protocol takes
care of retransmission.
Also, the ACK-on-Error mode could be desirable to keep track of all the SCHC packets
delivered. In that case, the fragmentation function could be activated for all packets
transmitted by the applications. SCHC ACK-on-Error fragmentation
 be activated in
transmitting Non-IP packets on the NGW-MME. A Non-IP packet will use SCHC reserved
[RFC8724]
RuleID for non-compressing packets as

 allows it.

MAY

•

Fragmentation Parameters

SCHC profile will have specific Rules for the fragmentation modes. The rule will identify
which fragmentation mode is in use, and Section 5.2.3 defines the RuleID size.

Ramos & Minaburo

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9391

LPWAN SCHC NB-IoT

April 2023

SCHC parametrization considers that NB-IoT aligns the bit and uses padding and the size of the
Transfer Block. SCHC will try to reduce padding to optimize the compression of the information.
The header size needs to be a multiple of 4. The Tiles
avoid padding, except for when the transfer block equals 16 bits as the Tiles may be 2 bits. The
 for the
transfer block size has a wide range of values. Two configurations are
fragmentation parameters.

 keep a fixed value of 4 or 8 bits to

RECOMMENDED

MAY

•

For Transfer Blocks smaller than or equal to 304 bits using an 8-bit Header_size
configuration, with the size of the header fields as follows:

RuleID from 1 - 3 bits
◦
◦
DTag 1 bit
◦
FCN 3 bits
◦
W 1 bits

•

For Transfer Blocks bigger than 304 bits using a 16-bit Header_size configuration, with the
size of the header fields as follows:

RulesID from 8 - 10 bits
◦
◦
DTag 1 or 2 bits
FCN 3 bits
◦
◦
W 2 or 3 bits

WINDOW_SIZE of (2N)-1 is
•
Reassembly Check Sequence (RCS) will follow the default size defined in
•
[RFC8724]

, with a length equal to the L2 Word.

RECOMMENDED

.

Section 8.2.3 of

•

MAX_ACK_REQ is
transmission conditions.

RECOMMENDED

 to be 2, but applications

MAY

 change this value based on

The IoT devices communicate with small data transfers and use the Power Save Mode and the
Idle Mode Discontinuous Reception (DRX), which govern how often the device wakes up, stays
up, and is reachable. The use of the different modes allows the battery to last ten years. Table
10.5.163a in
N can be 1 hour or 10 hours. The range used for IoT is of N to 3N, where N increments by one.
The Inactivity Timer and the Retransmission Timer can be set based on these limits.

 defines the radio timer values with units incrementing by N. The units of

[TS24008]

5.2.  Informational Scenarios

These scenarios show how 3GPP could use SCHC for their transmissions.

5.2.1.  Use of SCHC over the Radio Link

Deploying SCHC over the Radio Link only would require placing it as part of the protocol stack
for data transfer between the Dev-UE and the RGW-eNB. This stack is the functional layer
responsible for transporting data over the wireless connection and managing radio resources.
There is support for features such as reliability, segmentation, and concatenation. The
transmissions use link adaptation, meaning that the system will optimize the transport format

Ramos & Minaburo

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9391

LPWAN SCHC NB-IoT

April 2023

used according to the radio conditions, the number of bits to transmit, and the power and
interference constraints. That means that the number of bits transmitted over the air depends on
the selected Modulation and Coding Schemes (MCSs). Transport Block (TB) transmissions happen
in the Physical Layer at network-synchronized intervals called Transmission Time Interval (TTI).
Each TB has a different MCS and number of bits available to transmit. The MAC layer
defines the characteristics of the TBs. The Radio Link stack shown in Figure 3 comprises the
Packet Data Convergence Protocol (PDCP)
Medium Access Control protocol (MAC)
gives more details about these protocols.

, the Radio Link Protocol (RLC)
[TS36201]

[TS36322]
, the
. Appendix A

, and the Physical Layer

[TR36321]

[TR36321]

[TS36323]

+---------+                              +---------+  |
|IP/Non-IP+------------------------------+IP/Non-IP+->+
+---------+   |   +---------------+   |  +---------+  |
| PDCP    +-------+ PDCP  | GTP|U +------+ GTP-U   |->+
| (SCHC)  +       + (SCHC)|       +      +         |  |
+---------+   |   +---------------+   |  +---------+  |
| RLC     +-------+ RLC   |UDP/IP +------+ UDP/IP  +->+
+---------+   |   +---------------+   |  +---------+  |
| MAC     +-------+ MAC   | L2    +------+ L2      +->+
+---------+   |   +---------------+   |  +---------+  |
| PHY     +-------+ PHY   | PHY   +------+ PHY     +->+
+---------+       +---------------+      +---------+  |
           C-Uu/                    S1-U             SGi
  Dev-UE               RGW-eNB             NGW-CSGN
          Radio Link

Figure 3: SCHC over the Radio Link

5.2.1.1.  Placing SCHC Entities over the Radio Link

The 3GPP architecture supports Robust Header Compression (ROHC)
layer. Therefore, the architecture can deploy SCHC header compression entities similarly without
the need for significant changes in the 3GPP specifications.

 in the PDCP

[RFC5795]

The RLC layer has three functional modes: Transparent Mode (TM), Unacknowledged Mode (UM),
and Acknowledged Mode (AM). The mode of operation controls the functionalities of the RLC
layer. TM only applies to signaling packets, while AM or UM carry signaling and data packets.

The RLC layer takes care of fragmentation except for the TM. In AM or UM, the SCHC
fragmentation is unnecessary and
Link does not commonly use the RLC TM. However, if other protocol overhead optimizations are
targeted for NB-IoT traffic, SCHC fragmentation may be used for TM transmission in the future.

 be used. While sending IP packets, the Radio

SHOULD NOT

5.2.2.  Use of SCHC over the Non-Access Stratum (NAS)

This section consists of IETF suggestions to the 3GPP. The NGW-MME conveys mainly signaling
between the Dev-UE and the cellular network
. The network transports this traffic on
top of the Radio Link.

[TR24301]

Ramos & Minaburo

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9391

LPWAN SCHC NB-IoT

April 2023

This kind of flow supports data transmissions to reduce the overhead when transmitting
infrequent small quantities of data. This transmission is known as Data over Non-Access Stratum
(DoNAS) or Control Plane CIoT EPS optimizations. In DoNAS, the Dev-UE uses the pre-established
security, can piggyback small uplink data into the initial uplink message, and uses an additional
message to receive a downlink small data response.

The NGW-MME performs the data encryption from the network side in a DoNAS PDU. Depending
on the data type signaled indication (IP or Non-IP data), the network allocates an IP address or
establishes a direct forwarding path. DoNAS is regulated under rate control upon previous
agreement, meaning that a maximum number of bits per unit of time is agreed upon per device
subscription beforehand and configured in the device.

The system will use DoNAS when a terminal in a power-saving state requires a short
transmission and receives an acknowledgment or short feedback from the network. Depending
on the size of the buffered data to be transmitted, the Dev-UE might deploy the connected mode
transmission instead. The connected mode would limit and control the DoNAS transmissions to
predefined thresholds, and it would be a good resource optimization balance for the terminal
and the network. The support for mobility of DoNAS is present but produces additional
overhead. Appendix B gives additional details of DoNAS.

5.2.2.1.  Placing SCHC Entities over DoNAS

SCHC resides in this scenario's Non-Access Stratum (NAS) protocol layer. The same principles as
, it
for Section 5.2.1 apply here as well. Because the NAS protocol already uses ROHC
can also adapt SCHC for header compression. The main difference compared to the Radio Link
(Section 5.2.1) is the physical placing of the SCHC entities. On the network side, the NGW-MME
resides in the core network and is the terminating node for NAS instead of the RGW-eNB.

[RFC5795]

Ramos & Minaburo

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9391

LPWAN SCHC NB-IoT

April 2023

+--------+                       +--------+--------+  +  +--------+
| IP/    +--+-----------------+--+  IP/   |   IP/  +-----+   IP/  |
| Non-IP |  |                 |  | Non-IP | Non-IP |  |  | Non-IP |
+--------+  |                 |  +-----------------+  |  +--------+
| NAS    +-----------------------+   NAS  |GTP-C/U +-----+GTP-C/U |
|(SCHC)  |  |                 |  | (SCHC) |        |  |  |        |
+--------+  |  +-----------+  |  +-----------------+  |  +--------+
| RRC    +-----+RRC  |S1|AP+-----+ S1|AP  |        |  |  |        |
+--------+  |  +-----------+  |  +--------+  UDP   +-----+  UDP   |
| PDCP*  +-----+PDCP*|SCTP +-----+ SCTP   |        |  |  |        |
+--------+  |  +-----------+  |  +-----------------+  |  +--------+
| RLC    +-----+ RLC | IP  +-----+ IP     | IP     +-----+ IP     |
+--------+  |  +-----------+  |  +-----------------+  |  +--------+
| MAC    +-----+ MAC | L2  +-----+ L2     | L2     +-----+ L2     |
+--------+  |  +-----------+  |  +-----------------+  |  +--------+
| PHY    +--+--+ PHY | PHY +--+--+ PHY    | PHY    +-----+ PHY    |
+--------+     +-----+-----+     +--------+--------+  |  +--------+
           C-Uu/             S1                   SGi
 Dev-UE           RGW-eNB               NGW-MME             NGW-PGW

    *PDCP is bypassed until AS security is activated TGPP36300.

Figure 4: SCHC Entities Placement in the 3GPP CIOT Radio Protocol Architecture for DoNAS
Transmissions

5.2.3.  Parameters for Static Context Header Compression and Fragmentation (SCHC) for
the Radio Link and DoNAS Use Cases

If 3GPP incorporates SCHC, it is recommended that these scenarios use the SCHC header
compression

 capability to optimize the data transmission.

[RFC8724]

•

SCHC Context Initialization

The Radio Resource Control (RRC) protocol is the main tool used to configure the parameters
of the Radio Link. It will configure SCHC and the static context distribution as it has been
made for ROHC operation

[RFC5795] [TS36323]
.

•

SCHC Rules

The network operator defines the number of rules in these scenarios. For this, the network
operator must know the IP traffic the device will carry. The operator might supply rules
compatible with the device's use case. For devices acting as a capillary gateway, several rules
match the diversity of devices and protocols used by the devices associated with the gateway.
Meanwhile, simpler devices may have predetermined protocols and fixed parameters. The
use of IPv6 and IPv4 may force the operator to develop more rules to deal with each case.

•

RuleID

There is a reasonable assumption of 9 bytes of radio protocol overhead for these
transmission scenarios in NB-IoT, where PDCP uses 5 bytes due to header and integrity
protection and where RLC and MAC use 4 bytes. The minimum physical TBs that can
withhold this overhead value, according to the 3GPP Release 15 specification

[R15-3GPP]

, are

Ramos & Minaburo

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9391

LPWAN SCHC NB-IoT

April 2023

88, 104, 120, and 144 bits. As for Section 5.1.1.2, these scenarios must optimize the Physical
Layer where the smallest TB is 12 bits. These 12 bits must include the Compression Residue
in addition to the RuleID. On the other hand, more complex NB-IoT devices (such as a
capillary gateway) might require additional bits to handle the variety and multiple
parameters of higher-layer protocols deployed. In that sense, the operator may want
flexibility on the number and type of rules independently supported by each device;
consequently, these scenarios require a configurable value. The configuration may be part of
the agreed operation profile with the content distribution. The RuleID field size may range
from 2 bits, resulting in 4 rules, to an 8-bit value, yielding up to 256 rules for use with the
operators. A 256-rule maximum limit seems to be quite reasonable, even for a device acting
as a NAT. An application may use a larger RuleID, but it should consider the byte alignment
of the expected Compression Residue. In the minimum TB size case, 2 bits of RuleID leave
only 6 bits available for Compression Residue.

•

SCHC MAX_PACKET_SIZE

The Radio Link can handle the fragmentation of SCHC packets if needed, including reliability.
Hence, the packet size is limited by the MTU that is handled by the radio protocols, which
corresponds to 1600 bytes for the 3GPP Release 15.

•

Fragmentation

For the Radio Link (Section 5.2.1) and DoNAS (Section 5.2.2) scenarios, the SCHC
fragmentation functions are disabled. The RLC layer of NB-IoT can segment packets into
suitable units that fit the selected TB for transmissions of the Physical Layer. The block
selection is made according to the link adaptation input function in the MAC layer and the
quantity of data in the buffer. The link adaptation layer may produce different results at
each TTI, resulting in varying physical TBs that depend on the network load, interference,
number of bits transmitted, and QoS. Even if setting a value that allows the construction of
data units following the SCHC tiles principle, the protocol overhead may be greater or equal
to allowing the Radio Link protocols to take care of the fragmentation intrinsically.

•

Fragmentation in RLC TM

The RLC TM mostly applies to control signaling transmissions. When RLC operates in TM, the
MAC layer mechanisms ensure reliability and generate overhead. This additional reliability
implies sending repetitions or automatic retransmissions.

The ACK-Always fragmentation mode of SCHC may reduce this overhead in future operations
when data transmissions may use this mode. The ACK-Always mode may transmit
compressed data with fewer possible transmissions by using fixed or limited TBs compatible
with the tiling SCHC fragmentation handling. For SCHC fragmentation parameters, see
Section 5.1.1.2.

6.  Padding

NB-IoT and 3GPP wireless access, in general, assumes a byte-aligned payload. Therefore, the L2
Word for NB-IoT
accordingly.

 be considered 8 bits, and the padding treatment should use this value

MUST

Ramos & Minaburo

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9391

LPWAN SCHC NB-IoT

April 2023

7.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

8.  Security Considerations

This document does not add any security considerations and follows
access security document specified in

[TS33122]
.

[RFC8724]

 and the 3GPP

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8724]

[RFC8824]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

,

Minaburo, A. Toutain, L. Gomez, C. Barthel, D.
Framework for Static Context Header Compression and Fragmentation" RFC
8724 DOI 10.17487/RFC8724
,
rfc8724>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

JC. Zuniga "SCHC: Generic

, April 2020,

, and

,

,

.

,

Minaburo, A. Toutain, L.
Compression (SCHC) for the Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP)" RFC 8824
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC8824

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8824>

R. Andreasen "Static Context Header

, June 2021,

, and

,

,

.

9.2.  Informative References

[OMA0116]

[R15-3GPP]

[RFC5795]

[RFC8376]

,

, January 2018,

Open Mobile Alliance "Common definitions for RESTful Network APIs" Version
1.0
REST_NetAPI_Common/V1_0-20180116-A/OMA-TS-REST_NetAPI_Common-
V1_0-20180116-A.pdf>

<https://www.openmobilealliance.org/release/

,

.

,

3GPP "Release 15"
technologies/releases/release-15>

, April 2019,

.

<https://www.3gpp.org/specifications-

Sandlund, K. Pelletier, G.
,
, and
(ROHC) Framework" RFC 5795 DOI 10.17487/RFC5795
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5795>

L-E. Jonsson "The RObust Header Compression
,

, March 2010,

<https://

,

,

.

Farrell, S., Ed. "Low-Power Wide Area Network (LPWAN) Overview" RFC 8376
DOI 10.17487/RFC8376

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8376>

, May 2018,

,

,

.

,

Ramos & Minaburo

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9391

LPWAN SCHC NB-IoT

April 2023

[TR-0024]

[TR23720]

[TR24301]

,

OneM2M "3GPP_Interworking" TR-0024-V4.3.0
ftp.onem2m.org/work%20programme/WI-0037/TR-0024-3GPP_Interworking-
V4_3_0.DOCX>

, March 2020,

<https://

.

,

,

3GPP "Study on architecture enhancements for Cellular Internet of Things"
3GPP TR 23.720 V13.0.0
23_series/23.720/23720-d00.zip>

<https://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/

, March 2016,

,

.

,

3GPP "Non-Access-Stratum (NAS) protocol for Evolved Packet System (EPS);
Stage 3" 3GPP TS 24.301 V15.8.0
Specs/archive/24_series/24.301/24301-f80.zip>

<https://www.3gpp.org/ftp//

, December 2019,

,

.

[TR36321]

,

3GPP "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); Medium Access
Control (MAC) protocol specification" 3GPP TS 36.321 V13.2.0
,
, June 2016,
<https://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/36_series/36.321/36321-d20.zip>
.

[TS23222]

[TS24008]

[TS33122]

[TS36201]

[TS36322]

[TS36323]

,

3GPP "Functional architecture and information flows to support Common API
Framework for 3GPP Northbound APIs; Stage 2" 3GPP TS 23.222 V15.6.0
September 2022,
23.222/23222-f60.zip>

<https://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/23_series/

,

,

.

,

3GPP "Mobile radio interface Layer 3 specification; Core network protocols;
Stage 3" 3GPP TS 24.008 V15.5.0
<https://www.3gpp.org/ftp//
Specs/archive/24_series/24.008/24008-f50.zip>

, December 2018,

.

,

,

3GPP "Security aspects of Common API Framework (CAPIF) for 3GPP
northbound APIs" 3GPP TS 33.122 V15.3.0
ftp//Specs/archive/33_series/33.122/33122-f30.zip>

, March 2019,

,

.

<https://www.3gpp.org/

,

3GPP "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); LTE physical layer;
General description" 3GPP TS 36.201 V15.1.0
<https://www.3gpp.org/
ftp/Specs/archive/36_series/36.201/36201-f10.zip>

, June 2018,

,

.

,

3GPP "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); Radio Link Control
(RLC) protocol specification" 3GPP TS 36.322 V15.0.1
<https://www.
,
3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/36_series/36.322/36322-f01.zip>

, April 2018,
.

,

3GPP "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); Packet Data
Convergence Protocol (PDCP) specification" 3GPP TS 36.323 V13.2.0
<https://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/36_series/36.323/36323-d20.zip>

, June 2016,
.

,

[TS36331]

,

3GPP "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); Radio Resource
Control (RRC); Protocol specification" 3GPP TS 36.331 V15.5.1
,
, April 2019,
<https://www.3gpp.org/ftp//Specs/archive/36_series/36.331/36331-f51.zip>
.

Ramos & Minaburo

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9391

LPWAN SCHC NB-IoT

April 2023

Appendix A.  NB-IoT User Plane Protocol Architecture

A.1.  Packet Data Convergence Protocol (PDCP)

Each of the Radio Bearers (RBs) is associated with one PDCP entity
entity is associated with one or two RLC entities, depending on the unidirectional or bidirectional
characteristics of the RB and RLC mode used. A PDCP entity is associated with either a control
plane or a user plane with independent configuration and functions. The maximum supported
size for NB-IoT of a PDCP SDU is 1600 octets. The primary services and functions of the PDCP
sublayer for NB-IoT for the user plane include:

. Moreover, a PDCP

[TS36323]

•

Header compression and decompression using ROHC

[RFC5795]

•

Transfer of user and control data to higher and lower layers

•

Duplicate detection of lower-layer SDUs when re-establishing connection (when RLC with
Acknowledge Mode is in use for User Plane only)

•

Ciphering and deciphering

•

Timer-based SDU discard in uplink

A.2.  Radio Link Protocol (RLC)

[TS36322]

 is an L2 protocol that operates between the User Equipment (UE) and the base

RLC
station (eNB). It supports the packet delivery from higher layers to MAC, creating packets
transmitted over the air, optimizing the TB utilization. RLC flow of data packets is unidirectional,
and it is composed of a transmitter located in the transmission device and a receiver located in
the destination device. Therefore, to configure bidirectional flows, two sets of entities, one in
each direction (downlink and uplink), must be configured and effectively peered to each other.
The peering allows the transmission of control packets (e.g., status reports) between entities. RLC
can be configured for a data transfer in one of the following modes:

•

Transparent Mode (TM)

RLC does not segment or concatenate SDUs from higher layers in this mode and does not
include any header with the payload. RLC receives SDUs from upper layers when acting as a
transmitter and transmits directly to its flow RLC receiver via lower layers. Similarly, upon
reception, a TM RLC receiver would not process the packets and only deliver them to higher
layers.

•

Unacknowledged Mode (UM)

This mode provides support for segmentation and concatenation of payload. The RLC
packet's size depends on the indication given at a particular transmission opportunity by the
lower layer (MAC) and is octet-aligned. The packet delivery to the receiver does not include
reliability support, and the loss of a segment from a packet means a complete packet loss.
Also, in lower-layer retransmissions, there is no support for re-segmentation in case the
radio conditions change and trigger the selection of a smaller TB. Additionally, it provides
PDU duplication detection and discards, out-of-sequence reordering, and loss detection.

Ramos & Minaburo

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9391

LPWAN SCHC NB-IoT

April 2023

•

Acknowledged Mode (AM)

In addition to the same functions supported by UM, this mode also adds a moving windows-
based reliability service on top of the lower-layer services. It also supports re-segmentation,
and it requires bidirectional communication to exchange acknowledgment reports, called
RLC Status Reports, and to trigger retransmissions. This model also supports protocol-error
detection. The mode used depends on the operator configuration for the type of data to be
transmitted. For example, data transmissions supporting mobility or requiring high
reliability would be most likely configured using AM. Meanwhile, streaming and real-time
data would be mapped to a UM configuration.

A.3.  Medium Access Control (MAC)

[TR36321]

 provides a mapping between the higher layers abstraction called Logical

MAC
Channels (which are comprised by the previously described protocols) and the Physical Layer
channels (transport channels). Additionally, MAC may multiplex packets from different Logical
Channels and prioritize which ones to fit into one TB if there is data and space available to
maximize data transmission efficiency. MAC also provides error correction and reliability
support through Hybrid Automatic Repeat reQuest (HARQ), transport format selection, and
scheduling information reported from the terminal to the network. MAC also adds the necessary
padding and piggyback control elements, when possible, as well as the higher layers data.

Ramos & Minaburo

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9391

LPWAN SCHC NB-IoT

April 2023

                                            <Max. 1600 bytes>
                    +---+         +---+          +------+
Application         |AP1|         |AP1|          |  AP2 |
(IP/Non-IP)         |PDU|         |PDU|          |  PDU |
                    +---+         +---+          +------+
                    |   |         |  |           |      |
PDCP           +--------+    +--------      +-----------+
               |PDCP|AP1|    |PDCP|AP1|     |PDCP|  AP2 |
               |Head|PDU|    |Head|PDU|     |Head|  PDU |
               +--------+    +--------+     +--------+--\
               |    |   |    |     |  |     |    |   |\  `--------\
         +---------------------------+      |    |(1)| `-------\(2)\
RLC      |RLC |PDCP|AP1|RLC |PDCP|AP1| +-------------+    +----|---+
         |Head|Head|PDU|Head|Head|PDU| |RLC |PDCP|AP2|    |RLC |AP2|
         +-------------|-------------+ |Head|Head|PDU|    |Head|PDU|
         |         |   |         |   | +---------|---+    +--------+
         |         |   | LCID1   |   | /         /   /   /         /
        /         /   /        _/  _//        _/  _/    / LCID2   /
        |        |   |        |   | /       _/  _/     /      ___/
        |        |   |        |   ||       |   |      /      /
    +------------------------------------------+ +-----------+---+
MAC |MAC|RLC|PDCP|AP1|RLC|PDCP|AP1|RLC|PDCP|AP2| |MAC|RLC|AP2|Pad|
    |Hea|Hea|Hea |PDU|Hea|Hea |PDU|Hea|Hea |PDU| |Hea|Hea|PDU|din|
    |der|der|der |   |der|der |   |der|der |   | |der|der|   |g  |
    +------------------------------------------+ +-----------+---+
                      TB1                               TB2

(1) Segment One
(2) Segment Two

Figure 5: Example of User Plane Packet Encapsulation for Two Transport Blocks

Appendix B.  NB-IoT Data over NAS (DoNAS)

The Access Stratum (AS) protocol stack used by DoNAS is specific because the radio network still
needs to establish the security associations and reduce the protocol overhead so that the PDCP is
bypassed until the AS security is activated. By default, RLC uses the AM. However, depending on
the network's features and the terminal, RLC may change to other modes by the network
operator. For example, the TM does not add any header nor process the payload to reduce the
overhead, but the MTU would be limited by the TB used to transmit the data, which is a couple of
[R15-3GPP]
thousand bits maximum. If UM (only terminals compatible with 3GPP Release 15
used, the RLC mechanisms of reliability are disabled, and only the reliability provided by the
MAC layer by HARQ is available. In this case, the protocol overhead might be smaller than the
AM case because of the lack of status reporting, but the overhead would have the same support
for segmentation up to 1600 bytes. NAS packets are encapsulated within an RRC
message.

[TS36331]

) is

Depending on the data type indication signaled (IP or Non-IP data), the network allocates an IP
address or establishes a direct forwarding path. DoNAS is regulated under rate control upon
previous agreement, meaning that a maximum number of bits per unit of time is agreed upon

Ramos & Minaburo

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9391

LPWAN SCHC NB-IoT

April 2023

per device subscription beforehand and configured in the device. The use of DoNAS is typically
expected when a terminal in a power-saving state requires a short transmission and is receiving
an acknowledgment or short feedback from the network. Depending on the size of buffered data
to be transmitted, the UE might be instructed to deploy the connected mode transmissions
instead, limiting and controlling the DoNAS transmissions to predefined thresholds and a good
resource optimization balance for the terminal and the network. The support for mobility of
DoNAS is present but produces additional overhead.

Ramos & Minaburo

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9391

LPWAN SCHC NB-IoT

April 2023

   +--------+   +--------+   +--------+
   |        |   |        |   |        |       +-----------------+
   |   UE   |   |  C-BS  |   |  C-SGN |       |Roaming Scenarios|
   +----|---+   +--------+   +--------+       |  +--------+     |
        |            |            |           |  |        |     |
    +----------------|------------|+          |  |  P-GW  |     |
    |        Attach                |          |  +--------+     |
    +------------------------------+          |       |         |
        |            |            |           |       |         |
 +------|------------|--------+   |           |       |         |
 |RRC connection establishment|   |           |       |         |
 |with NAS PDU transmission   |   |           |       |         |
 |& Ack Rsp                   |   |           |       |         |
 +----------------------------+   |           |       |         |
        |            |            |           |       |         |
        |            |Initial UE  |           |       |         |
        |            |message     |           |       |         |
        |            |----------->|           |       |         |
        |            |            |           |       |         |
        |            | +---------------------+|       |         |
        |            | |Checks Integrity     ||       |         |
        |            | |protection, decrypts ||       |         |
        |            | |data                 ||       |         |
        |            | +---------------------+|       |         |
        |            |            |       Small data packet     |
        |            |            |------------------------------->
        |            |            |       Small data packet     |
        |            |            |<-------------------------------
        |            | +----------|---------+ |       |         |
        |            | Integrity protection,| |       |         |
        |            | encrypts data        | |       |         |
        |            | +--------------------+ |       |         |
        |            |            |           |       |         |
        |            |Downlink NAS|           |       |         |
        |            |message     |           |       |         |
        |            |<-----------|           |       |         |
+-----------------------+         |           |       |         |
|Small data delivery,   |         |           |       |         |
|RRC connection release |         |           |       |         |
+-----------------------+         |           |       |         |
                                              |                 |
                                              |                 |
                                              +-----------------+

Figure 6: DoNAS Transmission Sequence from an Uplink Initiated Access

Ramos & Minaburo

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9391

LPWAN SCHC NB-IoT

April 2023

                   +---+ +---+ +---+                  +----+
 Application       |AP1| |AP1| |AP2|                  |AP2 |
(IP/Non-IP)        |PDU| |PDU| |PDU|  ............... |PDU |
                   +---+ +---+ +---+                  +----+
                   |   | |   | |   |                  |    |
                   |   | |   | |   |                  |    |
                   |   | |   | |   |                  |    |
                   |   | |   | |   |                  |    |
                   |   |/   /  |    \                 |    |
NAS /RRC      +--------+---|---+----+            +---------+
              |NAS/|AP1|AP1|AP2|NAS/|            |NAS/|AP2 |
              |RRC |PDU|PDU|PDU|RRC |            |RRC |PDU |
              +--------+-|-+---+----+            +---------|
              |          |         |            |         |
              |          |\         |            |         |
              |<--Max. 1600 bytes-->|__          |_        |
              |          |  \__        \___        \_       \
              |          |     \           \         \__     \
              |          |      \          |           |      \_
         +---------------|+-----|----------+            \       \
RLC      |RLC | NAS/RRC  ||RLC  | NAS/RRC  |       +----|-------+
         |Head|  PDU(1/2)||Head | PDU (2/2)|       |RLC |NAS/RRC|
         +---------------++----------------+       |Head|PDU    |
         |    |          | \               |       +------------+
         |    |    LCID1 |  \              |       |           /
         |    |          |   \              \      |           |
         |    |          |    \              \     |           |
         |    |          |     \              \     \          |
    +----+----+----------++-----|----+---------++----+---------|---+
MAC |MAC |RLC |    RLC   ||MAC  |RLC |  RLC    ||MAC |  RLC    |Pad|
    |Head|Head|  PAYLOAD ||Head |Head| PAYLOAD ||Head|  PDU    |   |
    +----+----+----------++-----+----+---------++----+---------+---+
             TB1                   TB2                     TB3

Figure 7: Example of User Plane Packet Encapsulation for Data over NAS

Acknowledgements

The authors would like to thank (in alphabetic order):
Thubert Tuomas Tirronen

Éric Vyncke
.

, and

,

Carles Gomez Antti Ratilainen Pascal

,

,

Authors' Addresses

Edgar Ramos
Ericsson
Hirsalantie 11
FI-
Finland
Email:

02420 Jorvas, Kirkkonummi

 edgar.ramos@ericsson.com

Ramos & Minaburo

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9391

LPWAN SCHC NB-IoT

April 2023

Ana Minaburo
Acklio
1137A Avenue des Champs Blancs
35510 Cesson-Sevigne Cedex
France
Email:

 ana@ackl.io

Ramos & Minaburo

Standards Track

Page 22

