Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9655
Standards Track
November 2024
2070-1721
D. Rathi, Ed.
Nokia

S. Hegde, Ed.
Juniper Networks Inc.

Z. Ali
Cisco Systems, Inc.

N. Nainar
Cisco Systems, Inc.

K. Arora
Individual Contributor

RFC 9655
Egress Validation in Label Switched Path Ping and
Traceroute Mechanisms

Abstract

The MPLS ping and traceroute mechanisms described in RFC 8029 and the related extensions for
Segment Routing (SR) defined in RFC 8287 are highly valuable for validating control plane and
data plane synchronization. In certain environments, only some intermediate or transit nodes
may have been upgraded to support these validation procedures. A straightforward MPLS ping
and traceroute mechanism allows traversal of any path without validation of the control plane
state. RFC 8029 supports this mechanism with the Nil Forwarding Equivalence Class (FEC). The
procedures outlined in RFC 8029 are primarily applicable when the Nil FEC is used as an
intermediate FEC in the FEC stack. However, challenges arise when all labels in the label stack
are represented using the Nil FEC.

This document introduces a new Type-Length-Value (TLV) as an extension to the existing Nil FEC.
It describes MPLS ping and traceroute procedures using the Nil FEC with this extension to
address and overcome these challenges.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9655
.

Rathi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9655

Egress Validation in LSP Ping/Traceroute

November 2024

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in effect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

2.  Problem with Nil FEC

3.  Egress TLV

4.  Procedure

4.1.  Sending Egress TLV in MPLS Echo Request

4.1.1.  Ping Mode

4.1.2.  Traceroute Mode

4.1.3.  Detailed Example

4.2.  Receiving Egress TLV in MPLS Echo Request

5.  Backward Compatibility

6.  IANA Considerations

6.1.  New TLV

6.2.  New Return Code

7.  Security Considerations

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

8.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Rathi, et al.

Standards Track

3

4

4

5

5

6

6

6

6

7

8

8

8

8

9

9

9

9

10

Page 2

RFC 9655

Egress Validation in LSP Ping/Traceroute

November 2024

Authors' Addresses

10

1.  Introduction

[RFC8402]

Segment routing supports the creation of explicit paths by using one or more Link-State IGP
. In certain use cases, the TE paths are built
Segments or BGP Segments defined in
using mechanisms described in
links in the explicit path. Controllers are often deployed to construct paths across multi-domain
networks. In such deployments, the headend routers may have the link-state database of their
domain and may not be aware of the FEC associated with labels that are used by the controller to
build paths across multiple domains. A very useful Operations, Administration, and Maintenance
(OAM) requirement is to be able to ping and trace these paths.

 by stacking the labels that represent the nodes and

[RFC9256]

[RFC8029]
 describes a simple and efficient mechanism to detect data plane failures in MPLS
Label Switched Paths (LSPs). It defines a probe message called an "MPLS echo request" and a
response message called an "MPLS echo reply" for returning the result of the probe. SR-related
[RFC8287] [RFC8029]
.
extensions for these are specified in
validate the data plane and secondarily to verify the consistency of the data plane with the
control plane. It also provides the ability to traverse Equal-Cost Multipaths (ECMPs) and validate
each of the ECMP paths. The Target FEC Stack TLV
information about the label. This information gets validated on each node for traceroute and on
the egress for ping. The use of the Target FEC Stack TLV requires all nodes in the network to have
implemented the validation procedures, but all intermediate nodes may not have been upgraded
to support validation procedures. In such cases, it is useful to have the ability to traverse the
paths in ping/traceroute mode without having to obtain the FEC for each label.

 provides mechanisms primarily to

 contains sub-TLVs that carry

[RFC8029]

. The

[RFC8029]

[RFC9256]

 supports this mechanism with FECs like the Nil FEC

A simple MPLS echo request/reply mechanism allows for traversing the SR Policy path without
validating the control plane state.
and the Generic FECs (i.e., Generic IPv4 prefix and Generic IPv6 prefix). However, there are
challenges in reusing the Nil FEC and Generic FECs for validation of SR Policies
Generic IPv4 prefix and Generic IPv6 prefix FECs are used when the protocol that is advertising
the label is unknown. The information that is carried in the Generic FECs is the IPv4 or IPv6
prefix and prefix length. Thus, the Generic FEC types perform an additional control plane
validation. However, the Generic FECs and relevant validation procedures are not thoroughly
detailed in
. The use case mostly specifies inter-AS (Autonomous System) VPNs as the
motivation. Certain aspects of SR, such as anycast Segment Identifiers (SIDs), require clear
guidelines on how the validation procedure should work. Also, the Generic FECs may not be
widely supported, and if transit routers are not upgraded to support validation of Generic FECs,
traceroute may fail. On the other hand, the Nil FEC consists of the label, and there is no other
associated FEC information. The Nil FEC is used to traverse the path without validation for cases
where the FEC is not defined or routers are not upgraded to support the FECs. Thus, it can be
used to check any combination of segments on any data path. The procedures described in
[RFC8029]
 are mostly applicable when the Nil FEC is used as an intermediate FEC in the FEC
stack. Challenges arise when all labels in the label stack are represented using the Nil FEC.

[RFC8029]

Rathi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9655

Egress Validation in LSP Ping/Traceroute

November 2024

Section 2 discusses the problems associated with using the Nil FEC in an MPLS ping/traceroute
procedure, and Sections 3 and 4 discuss simple extensions needed to solve the problem.

The problems and the solutions described in this document apply to the MPLS data plane.
Segment Routing over IPv6 (SRv6) is out of scope for this document.

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Problem with Nil FEC

[RFC8029]
The purpose of the Nil FEC, as described in
information is hidden and, in some cases, to avoid false negatives when the FEC information is
unknown.

, is to ensure that transit tunnel

This document uses a Nil FEC to represent the complete label stack in an MPLS echo request
message in ping and traceroute mode. A single Nil FEC is used in the MPLS echo request message
irrespective of the number of segments in the label stack.

Section 4.4.1 of [RFC8029]

 notes:

If the outermost FEC of the Target FEC stack is the Nil FEC, then the node
Target FEC validation completely.

MUST

 skip the

When a router in the label stack path receives an MPLS echo request message, there is no
definite way to decide whether it is the intended egress router since the Nil FEC does not carry
any information and no validation is performed by the router. Thus, there is a high possibility
that the packet may be misforwarded to an incorrect destination but the MPLS echo reply might
still return success.

To mitigate this issue, it is necessary to include additional information, along with the Nil FEC, in
the MPLS echo request message in both ping and traceroute modes and to perform minimal
validation on the egress/destination router. This will enable the router to send appropriate
success and failure information to the headend router of the SR Policy. This supplementary
information should assist in reporting transit router details to the headend router, which can be
utilized by an offline application to validate the traceroute path.

Consequently, the inclusion of egress information in the MPLS echo request messages in ping and
traceroute modes will facilitate the validation of the Nil FEC on the egress router, ensuring the
correct destination. Egress information can be employed to verify any combination of segments
on any path without requiring upgrades to transit nodes. The Egress TLV can be silently dropped
if not recognized; alternately, it may be stepped over, or an error message may be sent (per
[RFC8029]

 regarding code points in the range 32768-65535).

 and the clarifications in

[RFC9041]

Rathi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9655

Egress Validation in LSP Ping/Traceroute

November 2024

If a transit node does not recognize the Egress TLV and chooses to silently drop or step over the
Egress TLV, the headend will continue to send the Egress TLV in the next echo request message,
and if egress recognizes the Egress TLV, egress validation will be executed at the egress. If a
transit node does not recognize the Egress TLV and chooses to send an error message, the
headend will log the message for informational purposes and continue to send echo requests
with the Egress TLV, with the TTL incremented. If the egress node does not recognize the Egress
TLV and chooses to silently drop or step over the Egress TLV, egress validation will not be done,
and the ping/traceroute procedure will proceed as if the Egress TLV were not received.

3.  Egress TLV

MAY

MUST

 be included in an MPLS echo request message. It is an optional TLV and, if

 appear before the Target FEC Stack TLV in the MPLS echo request packet. This TLV

The Egress TLV
present,
can only be used in LSP ping/traceroute requests that are generated by the headend node of an
LSP or SR Policy for which verification is performed. In cases where multiple Nil FECs are
present in the Target FEC Stack TLV, the Egress TLV must be added corresponding to the ultimate
egress of the label stack. Explicit paths can be created using Node-SID, Adj-SID, Binding SID, etc.
The Address field of the Egress TLV must be derived from the path egress/destination. The format
is as specified in Figure 1.

    0                   1                   2                   3
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |      Type = 32771 (Egress TLV)  |          Length             |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                      Address (4 or 16 octets)                 |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 1: Egress TLV

Type:

32771 (Section 6.1)

Length:

Variable (4 octets for IPv4 addresses and 16 octets for IPv6 addresses). Length excludes

the length of the Type and Length fields.

Address:

This field carries a valid 4-octet IPv4 address or a valid 16-octet IPv6 address. The

address can be obtained from the egress of the path and corresponds to the last label in the
label stack or the SR Policy Endpoint field

[SR-POLICY-BGP]

.

4.  Procedure

This section describes aspects of LSP ping and traceroute operations that require further
considerations beyond those detailed in

[RFC8029]
.

Rathi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9655

Egress Validation in LSP Ping/Traceroute

November 2024

4.1.  Sending Egress TLV in MPLS Echo Request

As previously mentioned, when the sender node constructs an echo request with a Target FEC
Stack TLV, the Egress TLV, if present,
echo request packet.

 appear before the Target FEC Stack TLV in the MPLS

MUST

4.1.1.  Ping Mode

When the sender node constructs an echo request with a Target FEC Stack TLV that contains a
single Nil FEC corresponding to the last segment of the SR Policy path, the sender node
an Egress TLV with the address obtained from the SR Policy Endpoint field
Label value in the Nil FEC
the label stack. In case the endpoint is not specified or is equal to zero (
[RFC9256]
 use the address corresponding to the last segment of the SR Policy
in the Address field of the Egress TLV. Some specific cases on how to derive the Address field in
the Egress TLV are listed below:

 add
. The
 be set to zero when a single Nil FEC is added for multiple labels in

MUST
[SR-POLICY-BGP]

Section 8.8.1 of

), the sender

MUST

MAY

•

If the last SID in the SR Policy is an Adj-SID, the Address field in the Egress TLV is derived
from the node at the remote end of the corresponding adjacency.

•

If the last SID in the SR Policy is a Binding SID, the Address field in the Egress TLV is derived
from the last node of the path represented by the Binding SID.

4.1.2.  Traceroute Mode

When the sender node builds an echo request with a Target FEC Stack TLV that contains a Nil
FEC corresponding to the last segment of the segment list of the SR Policy, the sender node
add an Egress TLV with the address obtained from the SR Policy Endpoint field

MUST
[SR-POLICY-BGP]
.

MUST

Although there is no requirement to do so, an implementation
 send multiple Nil FECs if that
makes it easier for the implementation. If the SR Policy headend sends multiple Nil FECs, the last
one
 be set to zero for the
last Nil FEC. If the endpoint is not specified or is equal to zero (
sender
(i.e., the ultimate egress is used as the address in the Egress TLV).

), the
 use the address corresponding to the last segment endpoint of the SR Policy path

 correspond to the Egress TLV. The Label value in the Nil FEC

Section 8.8.1 of [RFC9256]

MUST

MAY

MAY

4.1.3.  Detailed Example

                  ----R3----
                 /  (1003)  \
      (1001)    /            \(1005)     (1007)
        R1----R2(1002)        R5----R6----R7(address X)
                \            /     (1006)
                 \   (1004) /
                  ----R4----

Figure 2: Egress TLV Processing in Sample Topology

Rathi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9655

Egress Validation in LSP Ping/Traceroute

November 2024

Consider the SR Policy configured on router R1 to destination X, configured with label stack as
1002, 1004, 1007. Segment 1007 belongs to R7, which has the address X locally configured on it.

Let us look at an example of a ping echo request message. The echo request message contains a
Target FEC Stack TLV with the Nil FEC sub-TLV. An Egress TLV is added before the Target FEC
Stack TLV. The Address field contains X (corresponding to a locally configured address on R7). X
could be an IPv4 or IPv6 address, and the Length field in the Egress TLV will be either 4 or 16
octets, based on the address type of address X.

Let us look at an example of an echo request message in a traceroute packet. The echo request
message contains a Target FEC Stack TLV with the Nil FEC sub-TLV corresponding to the complete
label stack (1002, 1004, 1007). An Egress TLV is added before the Target FEC Stack TLV. The
Address field contains X (corresponding to a locally configured address on destination R7). X
could be an IPv4 or IPv6 address, and the Length field in the Egress TLV will be either 4 or 16
octets, based on the address type of address X. If the destination/endpoint is set to zero (as in the
case of the color-only SR Policy), the sender should use the endpoint of segment 1007 (the last
segment in the segment list) as the address for the Egress TLV.

4.2.  Receiving Egress TLV in MPLS Echo Request

Any node that receives an MPLS echo request message and processes it is referred to as the
"receiver". In the case of the ping procedure, the actual destination/egress is the receiver. In the
case of traceroute, every node is a receiver. This document does not propose any change in the
processing of the Nil FEC (as defined in
request with a Target FEC Stack TLV. The presence of the Egress TLV does not affect the
validation of the Target FEC Stack sub-TLV at FEC-stack-depth if it is different than Nil FEC.

) in the node that receives an MPLS echo

[RFC8029]

Additional processing
<RSC> refers to the Return Subcode.

MUST

 be done for the Egress TLV on the receiver node as follows. Note that

1.

If the Label-stack-depth is greater than 0 and the Target FEC Stack sub-TLV at FEC-stack-
depth is Nil FEC, set Best-return-code to 8 ("Label switched at stack-depth <RSC>") and Best-
rtn-subcode to Label-stack-depth to report transit switching in the MPLS echo reply message.

2.

If the Label-stack-depth is 0 and the Target FEC Stack sub-TLV at FEC-stack-depth is Nil FEC,
then do a lookup for an exact match of the Address field of the Egress TLV to any of the
locally configured interfaces or loopback addresses.

a.

If the Egress TLV address lookup succeeds, set Best-return-code to 36 ("Replying router is
an egress for the address in the Egress TLV for the FEC at stack depth <RSC>") (Section 6.2)
in the MPLS echo reply message.

b.

If the Egress TLV address lookup fails, set the Best-return-code to 10 ("Mapping for this FEC
is not the given label at stack-depth <RSC>").

Rathi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9655

Egress Validation in LSP Ping/Traceroute

November 2024

3.

In some cases, multiple Nil FECs (one corresponding to each label in the label stack), along
with the Egress TLV, are sent from the SR Policy headend. When the packet reaches the
egress, the number of labels in the received packet (size of stack-R) becomes zero, or a label
with the Bottom-of-Stack bit set to 1 is processed. All Nil FEC sub-TLVs
the Egress TLV

 be validated.

 be removed, and

MUST

MUST

5.  Backward Compatibility

The extensions defined in this document are backward compatible with the procedures
described in
Nil FEC procedures described in

. A router that does not support the Egress TLV will ignore it and use the

[RFC8029]
.

[RFC8029]

When the egress node in the path does not support the extensions defined in this document,
egress validation will not be done, and Best-return-code will be set to 3 ("Replying router is an
egress for the FEC at stack-depth <RSC>") and Best-rtn-subcode to stack-depth in the MPLS echo
reply message.

When the transit node in the path does not support the extensions defined in this document,
Best-return-code will be set to 8 ("Label switched at stack-depth <RSC>") and Best-rtn-subcode to
Label-stack-depth to report transit switching in the MPLS echo reply message.

6.  IANA Considerations

6.1.  New TLV

IANA has added the following entry to the "TLVs" registry within the "Multiprotocol Label
Switching (MPLS) Label Switched Paths (LSPs) Ping Parameters" registry group
LSP]
:

[IANA-MPLS-

Type

TLV Name

Reference

32771

Egress TLV

RFC 9655

Table 1: TLVs Registry

6.2.  New Return Code

IANA has added the following entry to the "Return Codes" registry within the "Multiprotocol
[IANA-
Label Switching (MPLS) Label Switched Paths (LSPs) Ping Parameters" registry group
MPLS-LSP]
:

Value Meaning

36

Replying router is an egress for the address in the Egress TLV for the
FEC at stack depth <RSC>

Table 2: Return Codes Registry

Reference

RFC 9655

Rathi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9655

Egress Validation in LSP Ping/Traceroute

November 2024

7.  Security Considerations

This document defines an additional TLV for MPLS LSP ping and conforms to the mechanisms
defined in
 apply to this
. All the security considerations defined in
document. This document does not introduce any additional security challenges to be
considered.

[RFC8029]

[RFC8287]

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC8029]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8287]

[RFC8402]

[RFC9041]

[RFC9256]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Kompella, K. Swallow, G. Pignataro, C., Ed. Kumar, N. Aldrin, S.
,
"Detecting Multiprotocol Label Switched (MPLS) Data-Plane Failures" RFC 8029
DOI 10.17487/RFC8029
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8029>

M. Chen
, and
,

, March 2017,

,

,

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

,

Kumar, N., Ed. Pignataro, C., Ed. Swallow, G. Akiya, N. Kini, S.
"Label Switched Path (LSP) Ping/Traceroute for Segment Routing (SR) IGP-Prefix
and IGP-Adjacency Segment Identifiers (SIDs) with MPLS Data Planes" RFC 8287
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC8287
rfc8287>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, December 2017,

M. Chen

, and

,

,

,

.

,

,

Filsfils, C., Ed. Previdi, S., Ed. Ginsberg, L. Decraene, B. Litkowski, S.
Shakir "Segment Routing Architecture" RFC 8402 DOI 10.17487/RFC8402
2018,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8402>

,

,

,

,

,

.

, and

R.
, July

,

Andersson, L. Chen, M. Pignataro, C.
, and
Switched Paths (LSPs) Ping Parameters IANA Registry" RFC 9041 DOI 10.17487/
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9041>
RFC9041

T. Saad "Updating the MPLS Label

, July 2021,

,

,

,

,

.

,

Filsfils, C. Talaulikar, K., Ed. Voyer, D. Bogdanov, A.
Routing Policy Architecture" RFC 9256 DOI 10.17487/RFC9256
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9256>

, and

,
,

,
,

.

P. Mattes "Segment
,
, July 2022,

8.2.  Informative References

[IANA-MPLS-LSP]

IANA "Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) Label Switched Paths (LSPs)
Ping Parameters" <http://www.iana.org/assignments/mpls-lsp-ping-parameters>
.

,

,

Rathi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9655

Egress Validation in LSP Ping/Traceroute

November 2024

[SR-POLICY-BGP]

,

,

Previdi, S. Filsfils, C. Talaulikar, K., Ed. Mattes, P.
,

D. Jain "Advertising
Segment Routing Policies in BGP" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-
idr-sr-policy-safi-10
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/
draft-ietf-idr-sr-policy-safi-10>

, 7 November 2024,

, and

,

.

,

,

Acknowledgements

The authors would like to thank
Rajgopal

Adrian Farrel

,
 for their careful review and comments.

, and

Stewart Bryant Greg Mirsky Alexander Vainshtein Sanga Mitra

,

,

Authors' Addresses

editor
)

Deepti N. Rathi (
Nokia
Manyata Embassy Business Park
Bangalore 560045
Karnataka
India
Email:

deepti.nirmalkumarji_rathi@nokia.com

editor
)

Shraddha Hegde (
Juniper Networks Inc.
Exora Business Park
Bangalore 560103
Karnataka
India
Email:

shraddha@juniper.net

Kapil Arora
Individual Contributor
Email:

kapil.it@gmail.com

Zafar Ali
Cisco Systems, Inc.
Email:

zali@cisco.com

Nagendra Kumar Nainar
Cisco Systems, Inc.
Email:

naikumar@cisco.com

Rathi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

