Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9664
Standards Track
June 2025
2070-1721
S. Cheshire
Apple Inc.

T. Lemon
Apple Inc.

RFC 9664
An EDNS(0) Option to Negotiate Leases on DNS
Updates

Abstract

This document describes an EDNS(0) option that can be used between DNS Update Requesters
and authoritative DNS servers to include a lifetime (lease duration) in a DNS Update or DNS
Update Response, allowing a server to garbage collect stale Resource Records that have been
added by DNS Updates if they are not renewed.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9664
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Cheshire & Lemon

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9664

DNS Update Lease

June 2025

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Conventions and Terminology Used in This Document

2.1.  Terminology

3.  Mechanisms

4.  Lease Update Request and Response Format

4.1.  Types of Lease Update Requests

4.2.  Requester Behavior

4.3.  Server Behavior

5.  Refresh Requests

5.1.  Refresh Request Format

5.2.  Requester Behavior

5.2.1.  Coalescing Refresh Requests

5.3.  Server Behavior

6.  Retransmission Strategy

7.  Garbage Collection

8.  Security Considerations

9.  IANA Considerations

10. References

10.1.  Normative References

10.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

2

3

3

3

4

5

5

6

6

6

7

8

8

9

9

9

10

10

10

11

11

12

Dynamic Update in the Domain Name System (DNS Update)
from a persistent hostname to an IP address that changes over time. This capability is
particularly beneficial to mobile hosts, whose IP addresses may frequently change with location.

 allows for a mapping

[RFC2136]

Cheshire & Lemon

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9664

DNS Update Lease

June 2025

However, the mobile nature of such hosts often means that Resource Records (RRs) added using
DNS Update are not properly deleted. For instance, consider a mobile user who publishes
address RRs via DNS Update. If this user moves their laptop out of range of the Wi-Fi access
point, the address RR containing stale information may remain on the authoritative DNS server
indefinitely. Thus, an extension to DNS Update is required to tell the server to automatically
delete RRs after a period of time if they are not refreshed.

2.  Conventions and Terminology Used in This Document

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.1.  Terminology

DNS-SD:

DNS-based Service Discovery

[RFC6763]

EDNS(0):

Extension Mechanisms for DNS

[RFC6891]

Update Lease option:

Update Lease EDNS(0) option

Lease:

An agreement by an authoritative DNS server to continue to publish a record from the

time of registration until the lease duration has elapsed and then stop publishing it

Lease Duration:

The time between the start and end of a lease

Lease Update Request:

DNS Update Request containing an Update Lease option

Lease Update Response:

DNS Update Response containing an Update Lease option

RR:

Resource Record

Registration Request:

A Lease Update Request that is constructed with the purpose of adding
new information that is not thought to already be present on the authoritative DNS server

Registration:

The result of a successful Registration Request

Refresh Request:
Registration

A Lease Update Request that extends the lease duration on an existing

Refresh:

The result of a successful Refresh Request

3.  Mechanisms

The Update Lease option is included in a standard DNS Update Request
[RFC6891]
.
EDNS(0) OPT pseudo-RR

[RFC2136]

 within an

Cheshire & Lemon

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9664

DNS Update Lease

June 2025

4.  Lease Update Request and Response Format

Lease Update Requests and Responses are formatted as standard DNS Update messages
[RFC2136]
MUST
include an Update Lease EDNS(0) Option as shown below:

 include the EDNS(0) OPT RR

. Such messages

. This OPT RR

[RFC6891]

MUST

Field Name

Field
Type

Description

OPTION-
CODE

OPTION-
LENGTH

u_int16_t

UPDATE-LEASE (2)

u_int16_t

4 (LEASE) or 8 (LEASE + KEY-LEASE)

LEASE

u_int32_t

desired lease duration (Lease Update Request) or granted lease
duration (Lease Update response), in seconds

KEY-LEASE

u_int32_t

optional desired (or granted) lease duration for KEY RRs, in
seconds

Table 1

Lease Update Requests contain, in the LEASE field of the OPT RDATA, an unsigned 32-bit integer
indicating the lease duration in seconds, desired by the Requester, represented in network (big-
endian) byte order. In Lease Update Responses, this field contains the actual lease duration
granted by the authoritative DNS server. The lease durations granted by the server may be less
than, greater than, or equal to the value requested by the Requester.

There are two variants of the Update Lease option: The 4-byte variant and the 8-byte variant.

In the 4-byte variant, the LEASE indicated in the Update Lease option applies to all RRs in the
Update section.

In the 8-byte variant, the Update Lease communicates two lease durations. The LEASE indicated
in the Update Lease option applies to all RRs in the Update section except for KEY RRs. The KEY-
LEASE indicated in the Update Lease option applies to KEY RRs in the Update section.

More information about how the two variants are used is given in Section 4.3.

KEY RRs are given a special lease duration because these RRs are used in the DNS-SD Service
Registration Protocol

 to reserve a name (or names) when the service is not present.

[RFC9665]

In the case of a KEY RR and some other RR, obviously the KEY lease duration applies to the KEY
RR, and the lease duration applies to the other RR. If more than one RR that is not a KEY RR is
added by the Lease Update Request, the lease duration (not the KEY lease duration) is applied to
all such RRs. RRs that are removed are permanently removed.

Cheshire & Lemon

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9664

DNS Update Lease

June 2025

4.1.  Types of Lease Update Requests

This document describes two types of Lease Update Requests: Registrations and Refreshes. A
Registration Request is a Lease Update Request that is intended to add information not already
present on the authoritative DNS server. A Refresh Request is intended simply to renew the lease
on a previous Registration without changing anything. Registrations and Refreshes are both
Lease Update Requests, so the term "Lease Update Request" is used to specify behavior that is the
same for both types of DNS Updates.

In some cases, it may be necessary to add new information without removing old information.
For the purpose of this document, such Lease Update Requests are Registrations, although in
effect, they may also refresh whatever information is unchanged from a previous registration.

4.2.  Requester Behavior

MUST

 send an Update Lease option with any DNS Update that updates

DNS Update Requesters
RRs that are not intended to be present indefinitely. The Update Lease option
lease duration that is no shorter than 1800 seconds (30 minutes). Requesters
shorter lease duration if they anticipate that the RRs being updated will change more frequently
than every 30 minutes. Requesters that expect the updated RRs to be relatively static
request appropriately longer lease durations.

 specify a

 specify a

SHOULD

SHOULD

MAY

If the DNS Response received by the Requester does not include an Update Lease option, this is
an indication that the authoritative DNS server does not support the Update Lease option. In this
case, the Requester
returned an identical Update Lease option in its Response.

 continue sending Refresh Requests (see below) as if the server had

SHOULD

If the DNS Response does include an Update Lease option, the Requester
 use the durations
returned in this option when determining when to send Refresh Requests. This is true both if the
durations returned by the server are shorter and if they are longer.

MUST

When sending a Registration Request, the Requester
random amount of time across the range of 0-3000 milliseconds, with a granularity of no more
than 10 milliseconds. This prevents synchronization of multiple devices of the same type at a site
upon recovery from a power failure. This requirement applies only to the initial Registration
Request on startup; since Refresh Requests include a random factor as well, any synchronization
that occurs after such an event should quickly randomize.

 delay the initial transmission by a

MUST

The 10 ms granularity is a scheduling requirement intended to result in an even
spread of Requests so that every Request doesn't come an exact number of seconds
after startup. This requirement should not be construed as requiring anything of
the link layer on which the packet is transmitted: the link layer may well impose its
own constraints on the timing at which a message is sent, and this document does
not claim to override such constraints.

Cheshire & Lemon

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9664

DNS Update Lease

June 2025

The use of a 3000 ms (3-second) random delay as opposed to some other random
delay is to allow for enough time to meaningfully spread the load when many
devices renew at once, without delaying so long that the delay in discovery of
devices becomes obvious to an end user. A 3-second random delay means that if
there are, for example, 100 devices, and the random number generator spread is
even, we would have one renewal every 30 ms. In practice, on relatively
constrained devices acting as Service Registration Protocol (SRP) servers, we are
seeing the processing time for an SRP registration taking on the order of 7 ms, so
this seems reasonable.

4.3.  Server Behavior

Authoritative DNS servers implementing the Update Lease option
option in response to any successful DNS Update (RCODE=0) that includes an Update Lease
 return lease durations different from those specified by the Requester,
option. Servers
granting longer leases to reduce network traffic due to Refreshes or shorter leases to reduce the
lifetime of stale data.

 include an Update Lease

MUST

MAY

Although both the 4-byte and 8-byte variants are valid on both requesters and servers, older (pre-
standard) requesters and servers may exist that support only the 4-byte variant. Therefore,
requesters and servers that (as required by this specification) support both variants must
account for the possibility that the peer with which they are communicating may be an older
implementation that supports only the 4-byte variant.

A server that receives an 8-byte variant from a requester
giving the granted lease times.

MUST

 respond with an 8-byte variant

A server that receives a 4-byte variant from a requester
specifying both the lease duration and the KEY lease duration and
variant. In this case, the key and the other RRs expire at the same time.

MUST

MUST

 treat the 4-byte variant as

 respond with a 4-byte

A requester that receives a 4-byte variant from a server when it sent an 8-byte variant in its
request
duration.

 treat the 4-byte variant as specifying both the lease duration and the KEY lease

MUST

5.  Refresh Requests

A Refresh Request is a DNS Update Request that is sent to the server after an initial DNS Update
has been sent in order to prevent the update's RRs from being garbage collected.

5.1.  Refresh Request Format

Refresh Requests and their corresponding responses are formatted like Update Lease Requests
and Update Lease Responses (see Section 4). The Refresh Request is constructed with the
assumption that the previous Registration or Refresh is still in effect. In the case that the RRs

Cheshire & Lemon

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9664

DNS Update Lease

June 2025

added in a previous update were for some reason garbage collected (e.g., because of a server
reboot that resulted in loss of state), the Refresh Request will result in those RRs being added
again.

SHOULD NOT

 include any DNS Update prerequisites that will fail if the

The Refresh Request
Requester's previous Registration or Refresh is still in effect. It also
prerequisites that would fail if the RRs affected by the previous Registration or Refresh are no
longer present; that is, the Refresh Request should also work as a Registration Request. There
may be cases where this is not possible; in which case, the response from the server can be used
to determine how to proceed when the Refresh Request fails.

SHOULD NOT

 include

A Lease Update Request that changes the authoritative DNS server state resulting from a
previous Refresh or Registration is a Registration Request, not a Refresh Request.

In a Refresh Request, the Update Lease option contains the desired new lease duration, and in
the corresponding response, the Update Lease option contains the actual granted lease. The lease
duration provided in LEASE in the Update Lease option applies to all RRs in the Update section
of the Refresh Request, except that when the 8-byte Update Lease variant is sent, the duration
specified in KEY-LEASE applies to any KEY RRs included in the Update section.

5.2.  Requester Behavior

A Requester that intends for its RRs from a previous Registration or Refresh to remain active
MUST
server.

 send a Refresh Request before the lease expires; otherwise, the RRs will be removed by the

In order to prevent Registrations expiring, Requesters
Request succeeds, the requester computes a time limit that is 80% of the lease duration plus a
random offset between 0% and 5% of the lease duration. The random offset is to prevent
refreshes from being synchronized. When this time limit has expired, the requester
Refresh Request if the data in the initial Registration should continue to be advertised.

 refresh them. When a Lease Update

MUST

MUST

 send a

For Refresh Requests, the server is expected to return an Update Lease option, if supported, just
as with the initial Registration Request. As with the Registration Request, the Requester
use the durations returned by the server in the Lease Update Response when determining when
to send the next Refresh Request.

MUST

When sending Refresh Requests, the Requester
the initial Registration Request. The Update Lease option
as in the initial Registration Request or use the values returned by the server in the previous
Lease Update Response or other desired values as appropriate. As with responses to Registration
Requests, the Requester
when determining when to send the next Refresh Request.

 use the lease durations returned by the server in the response

 include an Update Lease option, as it did in

 either specify the same durations

MUST

MUST

MAY

If the Requester sends a Refresh Request message and does not receive a response from the
authoritative DNS server, then the Requester should implement a reasonable retry strategy to
attempt to refresh the record registrations before they expire. Given that 15% - 20% of the lease
lifetime still remains, these retransmissions do not need to be overly aggressive. For example,

Cheshire & Lemon

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9664

DNS Update Lease

June 2025

the Requester could retry nine more times, spaced uniformly at equal intervals from the time of
the first failed Refresh attempt until the expiration time of the records. After the expiration time
of the records, the Refresh Request effectively turns into a new Registration Request, and further
retransmissions after this proceed as described in Section 6.

5.2.1.  Coalescing Refresh Requests

If the Requester has performed multiple Registrations with a single server for different RRs, the
 send a Refresh Request containing RRs from all such Registrations to that server
Requester
in a single Refresh Request. This effectively places all RRs for a Requester on the same expiration
schedule, reducing network traffic due to Refreshes.

MAY

In doing so, the Requester includes in the Refresh Request all existing RRs previously
successfully registered on the server, including those not yet close to expiration, so long as at
least one RR updated in the Refresh Request has elapsed at least 75% of its original lease
duration. If the Requester uses UDP, the Requester
so would cause truncation of the Request; in this case, the Requester either sends multiple
Requests or uses TCP to send the complete Refresh Request at once.

 coalesce Refresh Requests if doing

MUST NOT

SHOULD NOT

 send a Refresh Request when all of the RRs in the Refresh Request

Requesters
would have more than 50% of their lease duration remaining before expiry. However, there may
be cases where the Requester needs to send an early Refresh Request, and it
 do so. For
example, a power-constrained (sleepy) device may need to send a Refresh Request when the
radio is powered so as to avoid having to power it up later.

MAY

Another case where this may be needed is when the lease duration registered with the server is
no longer appropriate and the Requester wishes to negotiate a different lease duration.
However, in this case, if the server does not honor the requested lease duration in its response,
the Requester

 retry this negotiation.

MUST NOT

5.3.  Server Behavior

Upon receiving a valid Refresh Request, the server
acknowledgment is a Lease Update Response as described in Section 4 and contains the new
lease duration of the Registration being Refreshed. The server
number of a zone as the result of a Refresh Request if the operation does not result in any
change to the zone contents.

 send an acknowledgment. This

 increment the serial

MUST NOT

MUST

However, the server's state may not match what the requester expects. In this case, a Refresh
Request may actually appear to be a Registration Request, from the server's perspective. If the
Refresh Request changes the contents of the zone, the server
number.

 update the zone serial

MUST

Cheshire & Lemon

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9664

DNS Update Lease

June 2025

6.  Retransmission Strategy

The DNS protocol, including DNS updates, can operate over UDP or TCP. For communication
using UDP, reliable transmission must be guaranteed by retransmitting when a DNS UDP
message is not acknowledged in a reasonable amount of time. Section 4.2.1 of the DNS
specification
guide to common DNS implementation errors
Guidelines

. Section 3.1.3 of the UDP Usage
 also provides useful guidance that is particularly relevant to DNS.

 provides some guidance on this topic, as does Section 1 of the IETF's

[RFC1536]

[RFC1035]

[RFC8085]

7.  Garbage Collection

If the lease duration of an RR elapses without being refreshed, the authoritative DNS server
MUST NOT
The lease durations returned by the server to the Requester are used in determining when the
lease on an RR has expired.

 return that RR in answers to queries. The server

 delete that RR from its database.

MAY

For all RRs other than a KEY RR included in a Lease Update Request, the lease duration is the
LEASE value in the Update Lease option. For KEY RRs, if the optional KEY-LEASE value was
included, this duration is used rather than the duration specified in the LEASE. If the KEY-LEASE
was not specified, the duration specified in the LEASE is used for all RRs in the Lease Update
Request.

8.  Security Considerations

[RFC2136]
Section 8 of the DNS Update specification
DNS updates. Servers implementing this specification should follow these recommendations.

 describes problems that can occur around

Several additional issues can arise when relying on the Update Lease option.

First, a too-long lease duration is not much different from no lease duration: the RRs associated
with such a Registration will effectively never be cleaned up. Servers implementing Update
Lease should have a default upper bound on the maximum acceptable value both for the LEASE
and KEY-LEASE values sent by the requester. Default values for these limits of 24 hours and 7
days, respectively, are
 provide a way for the operator to change
this upper limit.

RECOMMENDED

. Servers

MAY

The second issue is that a too-short lease can result in increased server load as Requesters
rapidly renew such Registrations. A delay in renewing could result in the registered RRs being
removed prematurely. Servers implementing Update Lease
duration that avoids this issue. A minimum of 30 seconds for both the LEASE and KEY-LEASE
durations is
an hour)

. However, in most cases, much longer lease durations (for example,
 provide a way for the operator to change this lower limit.

 have a default minimum lease

 be used. Servers

RECOMMENDED

SHOULD

MUST

MAY

Cheshire & Lemon

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9664

DNS Update Lease

June 2025

There may be some cost associated with renewing leases. A malicious (or buggy) requester could
renew at a high rate in order to overload the server more than it would be overloaded by query
traffic. This risk is present for an authoritative server handling normal (no-lease) DNS Updates
as well. Servers should follow established industry best practices to guard against flooding
attacks, both for malicious flooding of DNS messages over UDP and for similar flooding attacks
using TCP

[SYN] [RFC4953]
.

 or public key signing (e.g., SIG(0)

Some authentication strategy should be used when accepting DNS updates. Shared secret
[RFC2931]
[RFC8945]
limited authority: compromise of a key should not result in compromise of the entire contents of
one or more zones managed by the server. Key management strategy is out of scope for this
[RFC9665]
document. Service Registration Protocol
First Served Naming" rather than an explicit trust establishment process to confer update
permission to a set of RRs.

 uses DNS Update Leases with "First Come,

) should be required. Keys should have

9.  IANA Considerations

IANA has updated the "DNS EDNS0 Option Codes (OPT)" registry
as follows:

[EDNS0Reg]

 as regards value 2

2
Update Lease
Standard

Value:
Name:
Status:
Reference:

RFC 9664

10.  References

10.1.  Normative References

[RFC1035]

[RFC2119]

[RFC2136]

[RFC6891]

Mockapetris, P. "Domain names - implementation and specification" STD 13
,
RFC 1035 DOI 10.17487/RFC1035
info/rfc1035>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, November 1987,

,

,

.

,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Vixie, P., Ed. Thomson, S. Rekhter, Y.
Domain Name System (DNS UPDATE)" RFC 2136 DOI 10.17487/RFC2136
1997,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2136>

J. Bound "Dynamic Updates in the

, and

, April

,

,

,

,

.

Damas, J. Graff, M.
,
STD 75 RFC 6891 DOI 10.17487/RFC6891
,
editor.org/info/rfc6891>

, and

,

.

P. Vixie "Extension Mechanisms for DNS (EDNS(0))"

,

,

, April 2013,

<https://www.rfc-

Cheshire & Lemon

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9664

DNS Update Lease

June 2025

[RFC8174]

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

10.2.  Informative References

[RFC1536]

[RFC2931]

[RFC4953]

[RFC6763]

[RFC8085]

[RFC8945]

[RFC9665]

[EDNS0Reg]

[SYN]

,

Kumar, A. Postel, J. Neuman, C. Danzig, P.
Implementation Errors and Suggested Fixes" RFC 1536 DOI 10.17487/RFC1536
October 1993,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1536>
.

S. Miller "Common DNS

, and
,

,

,

,

,

,

Eastlake 3rd, D. "DNS Request and Transaction Signatures ( SIG(0)s )" RFC 2931
DOI 10.17487/RFC2931
rfc2931>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, September 2000,

,

.

,

Touch, J. "Defending TCP Against Spoofing Attacks" RFC 4953 DOI 10.17487/
,
RFC4953
, July 2007,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4953>

,
.

,

Cheshire, S.
10.17487/RFC6763

 and

M. Krochmal "DNS-Based Service Discovery" RFC 6763 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6763>
.

, February 2013,

,

,

,

,

Eggert, L. Fairhurst, G.
, and
8085 DOI 10.17487/RFC8085
,
rfc8085>

.

G. Shepherd "UDP Usage Guidelines" BCP 145 RFC
,
, March 2017,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

,
,

Dupont, F. Morris, S. Vixie, P. Eastlake 3rd, D. Gudmundsson, O.
Wellington "Secret Key Transaction Authentication for DNS (TSIG)" STD 93 RFC
8945 DOI 10.17487/RFC8945
,
rfc8945>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, November 2020,

, and
,

B.

,

,

,

.

Lemon, T.
 and
Discovery" RFC 9665 DOI 10.17487/RFC9665
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc9665>

,

.

S. Cheshire "Service Registration Protocol for DNS-Based Service

, June 2025,

<https://www.rfc-

,

IANA "DNS EDNS0 Option Codes (OPT)" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/
dns-parameters>

,

.

,
,

Eddy, W. "Defenses Against TCP SYN Flooding Attacks" The Internet Protocol
Journal Cisco Systems Volume 9 Number 4
,
www.cisco.com/web/about/ac123/ac147/archived_issues/ipj_9-4/ipj_9-4.pdf>

, December 2006,

<https://

,

,

.

Acknowledgments

,

Kiren Sekar

 and
Roger Pantos

Marc Krochmal
 for their work in 2006 on the precursor to this
Thanks to
document. Thanks also to
 for their contributions. Thanks to
Box Esko Dijk Jonathan Hui Peter van Dijk Abtin Keshvarzian Nathan Dyck Steve Hanna
Gabriel Montenegro Kangping Dong
,
document. Thanks to
their directorate reviews and IANA reviews.

 for their working group reviews of this
 for
, and
,

David Dong Olafur Gudmundsson Brian Trammel

Chris Sharp
 and
,

Tim Wicinski

Shivan Sahib

Chris
,

, and

,

,

,

,

,

Cheshire & Lemon

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9664

DNS Update Lease

June 2025

Authors' Addresses

Stuart Cheshire
Apple Inc.
One Apple Park Way
Cupertino CA 95014
,
United States of America
Phone:
Email:

+1 408 974 3207
cheshire@apple.com

Ted Lemon
Apple Inc.
P.O. Box 958
Brattleboro VT 05302
,
United States of America
Email:

mellon@fugue.com

Cheshire & Lemon

Standards Track

Page 12

