Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9038
Standards Track
May 2021
2070-1721
J. Gould
VeriSign, Inc.

M. Casanova
SWITCH

RFC 9038
Extensible Provisioning Protocol (EPP) Unhandled
Namespaces

Abstract

The Extensible Provisioning Protocol (EPP), as deﬁned in RFC 5730, includes a method for the
client and server to determine the objects to be managed during a session and the object
extensions to be used during a session. The services are identiﬁed using namespace URIs, and an
"unhandled namespace" is one that is associated with a service not supported by the client. This
document deﬁnes an operational practice that enables the server to return information
associated with unhandled namespace URIs and that maintains compliance with the negotiated
services deﬁned in RFC 5730.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9038

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Gould & Casanova

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9038

Unhandled Namespaces

May 2021

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Conventions Used in This Document

2.  Unhandled Namespaces

3.  Use of EPP <extValue> for Unhandled Namespace Data

3.1.  Unhandled Object-Level Extension

3.2.  Unhandled Command-Response Extension

4.  Signaling Client and Server Support

5.  Usage with General EPP Responses

6.  Usage with Poll-Message EPP Responses

7.  Implementation Considerations

7.1.  Client Implementation Considerations

7.2.  Server Implementation Considerations

8.  IANA Considerations

8.1.  XML Namespace

8.2.  EPP Extension Registry

9.  Security Considerations

10. References

10.1.  Normative References

10.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

Gould & Casanova

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9038

Unhandled Namespaces

May 2021

1.  Introduction

[RFC5730]

[RFC5730]

, includes a method for the

The Extensible Provisioning Protocol (EPP), as deﬁned in
client and server to determine the objects to be managed during a session and the object
extensions to be used during a session. The services are identiﬁed using namespace URIs. How
should the server handle service data that needs to be returned in the response when the client
does not support the required service namespace URI, which is referred to as an "unhandled
namespace"? An unhandled namespace is a signiﬁcant issue for the processing of the poll
messages described in
the supported client services, and the client needs to be capable of processing all poll messages.
Returning an unhandled namespace poll message is not compliant with the negotiated services
deﬁned in
poison message by halting the processing of the poll queue. An unhandled namespace is also an
issue for general EPP responses when the server has information that it cannot return to the
client due to the client's supported services. The server should be able to return unhandled
namespace information that the client can process later. This document deﬁnes an operational
practice that enables the server to return information associated with unhandled namespace
URIs and that maintains compliance with the negotiated services deﬁned in

, and returning an error makes the unhandled namespace poll message a

, since poll messages are inserted by the server prior to knowing

.
[RFC5730]

[RFC5730]

1.1.  Conventions Used in This Document

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

[W3C.REC-xml11-20060816]

XML
and examples provided in this document
MUST
order to develop a conforming implementation.

 is case sensitive. Unless stated otherwise, XML speciﬁcations

 be interpreted in the character case presented in

In examples, "S:" represents lines returned by a protocol server. Indentation and white space in
examples are provided only to illustrate element relationships and are not required features of
this protocol.

The examples reference XML namespace preﬁxes that are used for the associated XML
namespaces. Implementations
 depend on the example XML namespaces and instead
employ a proper namespace-aware XML parser and serializer to interpret and output the XML
documents. The example namespace preﬁxes used and their associated XML namespaces
include:

MUST NOT

changePoll:

urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:changePoll-1.0

domain:

urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:domain-1.0

secDNS:

urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:secDNS-1.1

Gould & Casanova

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9038

Unhandled Namespaces

May 2021

In the template example XML, placeholder content is represented by the following variables:

[NAMESPACE-XML]:

XML content associated with a login service namespace URI. An example is

the <domain:infData> element content in

[RFC5731]

.

[NAMESPACE-URI]:

XML namespace URI associated with the [NAMESPACE-XML] XML content.

An example is "urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:domain-1.0" in

[RFC5731]

.

2.  Unhandled Namespaces

[RFC5730]

An unhandled namespace is an XML namespace that is associated with a response extension that
is not included in the client-speciﬁed EPP login services of
consist of the set of XML namespace URIs included in the <objURI> or <extURI> elements of the
[RFC5730]
EPP <login> command
<objURI> and <extURI> elements of the EPP <greeting>
the login services included in the EPP <login> command. A server may have information
associated with a speciﬁc namespace that it needs to return in the response to a client. The
unhandled namespaces problem exists when the server has information that it needs to return
to the client, but the namespace of the information is not supported by the client based on the
negotiated EPP <login> command services.

. The services supported by the server are included in the

, which should be a superset of

. The EPP login services

[RFC5730]

3.  Use of EPP <extValue> for Unhandled Namespace Data

[RFC5730]

, the <extValue> element is used to provide additional error diagnostic information,

In
including the <value> element that identiﬁes the client-provided element that caused a server
error condition and the <reason> element containing the human-readable message that
describes the reason for the error. This operational practice extends the use of the <extValue>
element for the purpose of returning unhandled namespace information in a successful
response.

MAY

 return a successful response with the data for each unsupported

When a server has data to return to the client that the client does not support based on the login
services, the server
namespace moved into an <extValue> element
cause an error response, but the unhandled namespace data will instead be moved to an
<extValue> element, along with a reason why the unhandled namespace data could not be
included in the appropriate location of the response. The <extValue> element will not be
processed by the XML processor. The <extValue> element contains the following child elements:

. The unhandled namespace will not

[RFC5730]

<value>:

Contains a child element with the unhandled namespace XML. The unhandled

MUST

namespace
root element. XML processing of the <value> element is disabled by the XML schema in
, so the information can safely be returned in the <value> element.
[RFC5730]

 be declared in the child element or any containing element, including the

Gould & Casanova

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9038

Unhandled Namespaces

May 2021

<reason>: A formatted, human-readable message that indicates the reason the unhandled

SHOULD

namespace data was not returned in the appropriate location of the response. The formatted
reason
format: NAMESPACE-URI " not in login services", where NAMESPACE-URI is the unhandled
XML namespace like "urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:domain-1.0" in

Augmented Backus-Naur Form (ABNF) grammar [RFC5234]

 follow the

[RFC5731]

.

This document applies to the handling of unsupported namespaces for object-level extensions
and command-response extensions
unsupported namespaces for protocol-level extensions or authentication-information extensions
. Refer to the following sections on how to handle an unsupported object-level
[RFC3735]
extension namespace or an unsupported command-response extension namespace.

. This document does not apply to the handling of

[RFC3735]

3.1.  Unhandled Object-Level Extension

[RFC5730]

An object-level extension in
does not handle the namespace of the object-level extension, then the <resData> element is
removed and its object-level extension child element is moved into an <extValue> <value>
element
element. The response becomes a general EPP response without the <resData> element.

, with the namespace URI included in the corresponding <extValue> <reason>

 is a child element of the <resData> element. If the client

[RFC5730]

Below is a template response for a supported object-level extension. The [NAMESPACE-XML]
variable represents the object-level extension XML.

S:<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
S:<epp xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp-1.0">
S:  <response>
S:    <result code="1000">
S:      <msg>Command completed successfully</msg>
S:    </result>
S:    <resData>
S:      [NAMESPACE-XML]
S:    </resData>
S:    <trID>
S:      <clTRID>ABC-12345</clTRID>
S:      <svTRID>54322-XYZ</svTRID>
S:    </trID>
S:  </response>
S:</epp>

Gould & Casanova

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9038

Unhandled Namespaces

May 2021

Below is a template for an unhandled namespace response for an unsupported object-level
extension. The [NAMESPACE-XML] variable represents the object-level extension XML, and the
[NAMESPACE-URI] variable represents the object-level extension XML namespace URI.

S:<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
S:<epp xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp-1.0">
S:  <response>
S:    <result code="1000">
S:      <msg>Command completed successfully</msg>
S:      <extValue>
S:        <value>
S:          [NAMESPACE-XML]
S:        </value>
S:        <reason>
S:          [NAMESPACE-URI] not in login services
S:        </reason>
S:      </extValue>
S:    </result>
S:    <trID>
S:      <clTRID>ABC-12345</clTRID>
S:      <svTRID>54322-XYZ</svTRID>
S:    </trID>
S:  </response>
S:</epp>

The EPP response is converted from an object response to a general EPP response by the server
when the client does not support the object-level extension namespace URI.

Gould & Casanova

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9038

Unhandled Namespaces

May 2021

Below is an example of a <transfer> query response (see
into an unhandled namespace response.

Section 3.1.3 of [RFC5731]

) converted

S:<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
S:<epp xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp-1.0">
S:  <response>
S:    <result code="1000">
S:      <msg>Command completed successfully</msg>
S:      <extValue>
S:        <value>
S:          <domain:trnData
S:            xmlns:domain="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:domain-1.0">
S:            <domain:name>example.com</domain:name>
S:            <domain:trStatus>pending</domain:trStatus>
S:            <domain:reID>ClientX</domain:reID>
S:            <domain:reDate>2000-06-06T22:00:00.0Z</domain:reDate>
S:            <domain:acID>ClientY</domain:acID>
S:            <domain:acDate>2000-06-11T22:00:00.0Z</domain:acDate>
S:            <domain:exDate>2002-09-08T22:00:00.0Z</domain:exDate>
S:          </domain:trnData>
S:        </value>
S:        <reason>
S:          urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:domain-1.0 not in login services
S:        </reason>
S:      </extValue>
S:    </result>
S:    <trID>
S:      <clTRID>ABC-12345</clTRID>
S:      <svTRID>54322-XYZ</svTRID>
S:    </trID>
S:  </response>
S:</epp>

3.2.  Unhandled Command-Response Extension

A command-response extension in
client does not handle the namespace of the command-response extension, the command-
response child element is moved into an <extValue> <value> element
, with the
namespace URI included in the corresponding <extValue> <reason> element. Afterwards, if there
 be removed.
are no additional command-response child elements, the <extension> element

 is a child element of the <extension> element. If the

[RFC5730]

[RFC5730]

MUST

Gould & Casanova

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9038

Unhandled Namespaces

May 2021

Below is a template response for a supported command-response extension. The [NAMESPACE-
XML] variable represents the command-response extension XML.

S:<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
S:<epp xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp-1.0">
S:  <response>
S:    <result code="1000">
S:      <msg>Command completed successfully</msg>
S:    </result>
S:    <extension>
S:      [NAMESPACE-XML]
S:    </extension>
S:    <trID>
S:      <clTRID>ABC-12345</clTRID>
S:      <svTRID>54322-XYZ</svTRID>
S:    </trID>
S:  </response>
S:</epp>

Below is a template of an unhandled namespace response for an unsupported command-
response extension. The [NAMESPACE-XML] variable represents the command-response
extension XML, and the [NAMESPACE-URI] variable represents the command-response extension
XML namespace URI.

S:<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
S:<epp xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp-1.0">
S:  <response>
S:    <result code="1000">
S:      <msg>Command completed successfully</msg>
S:      <extValue>
S:        <value>
S:         [NAMESPACE-XML]
S:        </value>
S:        <reason>
S:          [NAMESPACE-URI] not in login services
S:        </reason>
S:      </extValue>
S:    </result>
S:    <trID>
S:      <clTRID>ABC-12345</clTRID>
S:      <svTRID>54322-XYZ</svTRID>
S:    </trID>
S:  </response>
S:</epp>

The EPP response is converted to an unhandled namespace response by moving the unhandled
command-response extension from under the <extension> to an <extValue> element.

Gould & Casanova

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9038

Unhandled Namespaces

May 2021

Below is example of the Delegation Signer (DS) Data Interface <info> response (see
of [RFC5910]

) converted to an unhandled namespace response.

Section 5.1.2

Gould & Casanova

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9038

Unhandled Namespaces

May 2021

S:<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
S:<epp xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp-1.0"
S:     xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance">
S:  <response>
S:    <result code="1000">
S:      <msg>Command completed successfully</msg>
S:      <extValue>
S:        <value>
S:          <secDNS:infData
S:            xmlns:secDNS="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:secDNS-1.1">
S:            <secDNS:dsData>
S:              <secDNS:keyTag>12345</secDNS:keyTag>
S:              <secDNS:alg>3</secDNS:alg>
S:              <secDNS:digestType>1</secDNS:digestType>
S:              <secDNS:digest>49FD46E6C4B45C55D4AC</secDNS:digest>
S:            </secDNS:dsData>
S:          </secDNS:infData>
S:        </value>
S:        <reason>
S:          urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:secDNS-1.1 not in login services
S:        </reason>
S:      </extValue>
S:    </result>
S:    <resData>
S:      <domain:infData
S:        xmlns:domain="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:domain-1.0">
S:        <domain:name>example.com</domain:name>
S:        <domain:roid>EXAMPLE1-REP</domain:roid>
S:        <domain:status s="ok"/>
S:        <domain:registrant>jd1234</domain:registrant>
S:        <domain:contact type="admin">sh8013</domain:contact>
S:        <domain:contact type="tech">sh8013</domain:contact>
S:        <domain:ns>
S:          <domain:hostObj>ns1.example.com</domain:hostObj>
S:          <domain:hostObj>ns2.example.com</domain:hostObj>
S:        </domain:ns>
S:        <domain:host>ns1.example.com</domain:host>
S:        <domain:host>ns2.example.com</domain:host>
S:        <domain:clID>ClientX</domain:clID>
S:        <domain:crID>ClientY</domain:crID>
S:        <domain:crDate>1999-04-03T22:00:00.0Z</domain:crDate>
S:        <domain:upID>ClientX</domain:upID>
S:        <domain:upDate>1999-12-03T09:00:00.0Z</domain:upDate>
S:        <domain:exDate>2005-04-03T22:00:00.0Z</domain:exDate>
S:        <domain:trDate>2000-04-08T09:00:00.0Z</domain:trDate>
S:        <domain:authInfo>
S:          <domain:pw>2fooBAR</domain:pw>
S:        </domain:authInfo>
S:      </domain:infData>
S:    </resData>
S:    <trID>
S:      <clTRID>ABC-12345</clTRID>
S:      <svTRID>54322-XYZ</svTRID>
S:    </trID>
S:  </response>
S:</epp>

Gould & Casanova

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9038

Unhandled Namespaces

May 2021

4.  Signaling Client and Server Support

This document does not deﬁne new EPP protocol elements but rather speciﬁes an operational
practice using the existing EPP protocol, where the client and the server can signal support for
the operational practice using a namespace URI in the login and greeting extension services. The
namespace URI "urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp:unhandled-namespaces-1.0" is used to signal
support for the operational practice. The client includes the namespace URI in an <svcExtension>
. The server includes the namespace URI in
<extURI> element of the <login> command
[RFC5730]
an <svcExtension> <extURI> element of the greeting
[RFC5730]

.

A client that receives the namespace URI in the server's greeting extension services can expect
the following supported behavior by the server:

•

support unhandled namespace object-level extensions and command-response extensions in
EPP poll messages, per Section 6

•

support the option of unhandled namespace command-response extensions in general EPP
responses, per Section 5

A server that receives the namespace URI in the client's <login> command extension services can
expect the following supported behavior by the client:

•

support monitoring the EPP poll messages and general EPP responses for unhandled
namespaces

5.  Usage with General EPP Responses

The unhandled namespace approach deﬁned in Section 3
response to an EPP command. A general EPP response includes any EPP response that is not a
poll message. The use of the unhandled namespace approach for poll-message EPP responses is
deﬁned in Section 6. The server
general EPP response or

 exclude the unhandled namespace information in the

 include it using the unhandled namespace approach.

 be used for a general EPP

MAY

MAY

MAY

The unhandled namespace approach for general EPP responses
command-response extensions, deﬁned in Section 3.2, since the server
object-level EPP command if the client did not include the object-level namespace URI in the
login services. An object-level EPP response extension is returned when the server successfully
 return an unhandled object-
executes an object-level EPP command extension. The server
level extension to the client, as deﬁned in Section 3.1.

 only be applicable to
 accept an

SHOULD NOT

SHOULD

MAY

Returning domain name Redemption Grace Period (RGP) data, based on
example of applying the unhandled namespace approach for a general EPP response. If the client
does not include the "urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:rgp-1.0" namespace URI in the login services and
the domain <info> response of a domain name does have RGP information, the server
exclude the <rgp:infData> element from the EPP response or
element, per Section 3.2.

 include it under the <extValue>

, provides an

[RFC3915]

MAY

MAY

Gould & Casanova

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9038

Unhandled Namespaces

May 2021

Below is an example of a domain name <info> response
<rgp:infData> element (see

Section 4.1.1 of [RFC3915]

[RFC5731]

 converted to an unhandled
) included under an <extValue> element:

Gould & Casanova

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9038

Unhandled Namespaces

May 2021

S:<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
S:<epp xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp-1.0"
S:     xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
S:     xsi:schemaLocation="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp-1.0
S:     epp-1.0.xsd">
S:  <response>
S:    <result code="1000">
S:      <msg>Command completed successfully</msg>
S:      <extValue>
S:        <value>
S:          <rgp:infData xmlns:rgp="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:rgp-1.0"
S:           xsi:schemaLocation="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:rgp-1.0
S:           rgp-1.0.xsd">
S:            <rgp:rgpStatus s="redemptionPeriod"/>
S:          </rgp:infData>
S:        </value>
S:        <reason>
S:          urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:rgp-1.0 not in login services
S:        </reason>
S:      </extValue>
S:    </result>
S:    <resData>
S:      <domain:infData
S:        xmlns:domain="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:domain-1.0"
S:        xsi:schemaLocation="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:domain-1.0
S:        domain-1.0.xsd">
S:        <domain:name>example.com</domain:name>
S:        <domain:roid>EXAMPLE1-REP</domain:roid>
S:        <domain:status s="pendingDelete"/>
S:        <domain:registrant>jd1234</domain:registrant>
S:        <domain:contact type="admin">sh8013</domain:contact>
S:        <domain:contact type="tech">sh8013</domain:contact>
S:        <domain:ns>
S:          <domain:hostObj>ns1.example.com</domain:hostObj>
S:          <domain:hostObj>ns1.example.net</domain:hostObj>
S:        </domain:ns>
S:        <domain:host>ns1.example.com</domain:host>
S:        <domain:host>ns2.example.com</domain:host>
S:        <domain:clID>ClientX</domain:clID>
S:        <domain:crID>ClientY</domain:crID>
S:        <domain:crDate>1999-04-03T22:00:00.0Z</domain:crDate>
S:        <domain:upID>ClientX</domain:upID>
S:        <domain:upDate>1999-12-03T09:00:00.0Z</domain:upDate>
S:        <domain:exDate>2005-04-03T22:00:00.0Z</domain:exDate>
S:        <domain:trDate>2000-04-08T09:00:00.0Z</domain:trDate>
S:        <domain:authInfo>
S:          <domain:pw>2fooBAR</domain:pw>
S:        </domain:authInfo>
S:      </domain:infData>
S:    </resData>
S:    <trID>
S:      <clTRID>ABC-12345</clTRID>
S:      <svTRID>54322-XYZ</svTRID>
S:    </trID>
S:  </response>
S:</epp>

Gould & Casanova

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9038

Unhandled Namespaces

May 2021

6.  Usage with Poll-Message EPP Responses

MUST

[RFC5730]

 be used if there is unhandled

The unhandled namespace approach, deﬁned in Section 3,
namespace information included in a <poll> response. The server inserts poll messages into the
client's poll queue independent of knowing the supported client login services; therefore, there
may be unhandled object-level extensions and command-response extensions included in a
client's poll queue. In
acknowledge poll messages that have been inserted by the server. The <poll> response is an EPP
response that includes the <msgQ> element that provides poll queue metadata about the
message. The unhandled namespace approach, deﬁned in Section 3, is used for an unhandled
object-level extension and for each of the unhandled command-response extensions attached to
the <poll> response. The resulting <poll> response
extension or command-response extensions moved to <extValue> elements, as deﬁned in Section
3.

, the <poll> command is used by the client to retrieve and

 have either or both the object-level

MAY

The change poll message, as deﬁned in
, which is an extension of any
EPP object, is an example of applying the unhandled namespace approach for <poll> responses.
Below are examples of converting the domain name <info> response example in
Section 3.1.2 of
[RFC8590]
domain name object

 to an unhandled namespace response. The object that will be used in the examples is a

Section 3.1.2 of [RFC8590]

[RFC5731]

.

Gould & Casanova

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9038

Unhandled Namespaces

May 2021

Below is a domain name <info> <poll> response
<changePoll:changeData> element

[RFC8590]

[RFC5731]

 with the unhandled

 included under an <extValue> element.

S:<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
S:<epp xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp-1.0">
S:  <response>
S:    <result code="1301">
S:      <msg lang="en-US">
S:        Command completed successfully; ack to dequeue</msg>
S:      <extValue>
S:        <value>
S:          <changePoll:changeData
S:           xmlns:changePoll="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:changePoll-1.0"
S:           state="after">
S:            <changePoll:operation>update</changePoll:operation>
S:            <changePoll:date>
S:              2013-10-22T14:25:57.0Z</changePoll:date>
S:            <changePoll:svTRID>12345-XYZ</changePoll:svTRID>
S:            <changePoll:who>URS Admin</changePoll:who>
S:            <changePoll:caseId type="urs">urs123
S:            </changePoll:caseId>
S:            <changePoll:reason>URS Lock</changePoll:reason>
S:          </changePoll:changeData>
S:        </value>
S:        <reason>
S:        urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:changePoll-1.0 not in login services
S:        </reason>
S:      </extValue>
S:    </result>
S:    <msgQ count="201" id="1">
S:      <qDate>2013-10-22T14:25:57.0Z</qDate>
S:      <msg>Registry initiated update of domain.</msg>
S:    </msgQ>
S:    <resData>
S:      <domain:infData
S:        xmlns:domain="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:domain-1.0">
S:        <domain:name>domain.example</domain:name>
S:        <domain:roid>EXAMPLE1-REP</domain:roid>
S:        <domain:status s="ok"/>
S:        <domain:registrant>jd1234</domain:registrant>
S:        <domain:contact type="admin">sh8013</domain:contact>
S:        <domain:contact type="tech">sh8013</domain:contact>
S:        <domain:clID>ClientX</domain:clID>
S:        <domain:crID>ClientY</domain:crID>
S:        <domain:crDate>2012-04-03T22:00:00.0Z</domain:crDate>
S:        <domain:exDate>2014-04-03T22:00:00.0Z</domain:exDate>
S:      </domain:infData>
S:    </resData>
S:    <trID>
S:      <clTRID>ABC-12345</clTRID>
S:      <svTRID>54322-XYZ</svTRID>
S:    </trID>
S:  </response>
S:</epp>

Gould & Casanova

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9038

Unhandled Namespaces

May 2021

Below is an unhandled domain name <info> <poll> response
<changePoll:changeData> element

[RFC8590]

 included under an <extValue> element.

[RFC5731]

 and the unhandled

Gould & Casanova

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9038

Unhandled Namespaces

May 2021

S:<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
S:<epp xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp-1.0">
S:  <response>
S:    <result code="1301">
S:      <msg>Command completed successfully; ack to dequeue</msg>
S:      <extValue>
S:        <value>
S:          <domain:infData
S:            xmlns:domain="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:domain-1.0">
S:            <domain:name>domain.example</domain:name>
S:            <domain:roid>EXAMPLE1-REP</domain:roid>
S:            <domain:status s="ok"/>
S:            <domain:registrant>jd1234</domain:registrant>
S:            <domain:contact type="admin">sh8013</domain:contact>
S:            <domain:contact type="tech">sh8013</domain:contact>
S:            <domain:clID>ClientX</domain:clID>
S:            <domain:crID>ClientY</domain:crID>
S:            <domain:crDate>2012-04-03T22:00:00.0Z</domain:crDate>
S:            <domain:exDate>2014-04-03T22:00:00.0Z</domain:exDate>
S:          </domain:infData>
S:        </value>
S:        <reason>
S:          urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:domain-1.0 not in login services
S:        </reason>
S:      </extValue>
S:      <extValue>
S:        <value>
S:          <changePoll:changeData
S:            xmlns:changePoll=
S:              "urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:changePoll-1.0"
S:            state="after">
S:            <changePoll:operation>update</changePoll:operation>
S:            <changePoll:date>
S:              2013-10-22T14:25:57.0Z</changePoll:date>
S:            <changePoll:svTRID>12345-XYZ</changePoll:svTRID>
S:            <changePoll:who>URS Admin</changePoll:who>
S:            <changePoll:caseId type="urs">urs123
S:            </changePoll:caseId>
S:            <changePoll:reason>URS Lock</changePoll:reason>
S:          </changePoll:changeData>
S:        </value>
S:        <reason>
S:        urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:changePoll-1.0 not in login services
S:        </reason>
S:      </extValue>
S:    </result>
S:    <msgQ count="201" id="1">
S:      <qDate>2013-10-22T14:25:57.0Z</qDate>
S:      <msg>Registry initiated update of domain.</msg>
S:    </msgQ>
S:    <trID>
S:      <clTRID>ABC-12345</clTRID>
S:      <svTRID>54322-XYZ</svTRID>
S:    </trID>
S:  </response>
S:</epp>

Gould & Casanova

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9038

Unhandled Namespaces

May 2021

7.  Implementation Considerations

There are implementation considerations for the client and the server to help address the risk of
the client ignoring unhandled namespace information included in an EPP response that is
needed to meet technical, policy, or legal requirements.

7.1.  Client Implementation Considerations

To reduce the likelihood of a client receiving unhandled namespace information, the client
should consider implementing the following:

1.

Ensure that the client presents the complete set of what it supports when presenting its login
services. If there are gaps between the services supported by the client and the login services
included in the login command, the client may receive unhandled namespace information
that the client could have supported.

2.

Support all of the services included in the server greeting services that may be included in
an EPP response, including the <poll> responses. The client should evaluate the gaps
between the greeting services and the login services provided in the login command to
identify extensions that need to be supported.

3.

Proactively monitor for unhandled namespace information in the EPP responses by looking
for the inclusion of the <extValue> element in successful responses, record the unsupported
namespace included in the <reason> element, and record the unhandled namespace
information included in the <value> element for later processing. The unhandled namespace
should be implemented by the client to ensure that information is processed fully in future
EPP responses.

7.2.  Server Implementation Considerations

To assist the clients in recognizing unhandled namespaces, the server should consider
implementing the following:

1.

Monitor for returning unhandled namespace information to clients and report it to the
clients out of band to EPP, so the clients can add support for the unhandled namespaces.

2.

Look for the unhandled namespace support in the login services when returning optional
unhandled namespace information in general EPP responses.

8.  IANA Considerations

8.1.  XML Namespace

This document uses URNs to describe XML namespaces conforming to a registry mechanism
described in

. The following URI assignment has been made by IANA.

[RFC3688]

URI:

urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp:unhandled-namespaces-1.0

Gould & Casanova

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9038

Unhandled Namespaces

May 2021

Registrant Contact:
XML:

IESG

None. Namespace URIs do not represent an XML speciﬁcation.

8.2.  EPP Extension Registry

The EPP operational practice described in this document has been registered by IANA in the
"Extensions for the Extensible Provisioning Protocol (EPP)" registry described in
details of the registration are as follows:

[RFC7451]

. The

"Extensible Provisioning Protocol (EPP) Unhandled Namespaces"

Standards Track

RFC 9038
IETF, <iesg@ietf.org>

Name of Extension:
Document Status:
Reference:
Registrant:
TLDs:
IPR Disclosure:
Status:
Active
Notes:
None

Any

None

9.  Security Considerations

This document does not provide any security services beyond those described by
and protocol layers used by EPP. The security considerations described in these other
speciﬁcations apply to this speciﬁcation as well. Since the unhandled namespace content is XML
that is not processed in the ﬁrst pass by the XML parser, the client
when the content is processed to protect against the inclusion of malicious content.

 validate the XML

EPP [RFC5730]

SHOULD

10.  References

10.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC3688]

[RFC5234]

[RFC5730]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,
Mealling, M. "The IETF XML Registry" BCP 81 RFC 3688 DOI 10.17487/RFC3688
January 2004,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3688>

,
.

,

,

,

 and
Crocker, D., Ed.
,
,
ABNF" STD 68 RFC 5234 DOI 10.17487/RFC5234
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5234>

,

,

.

P. Overell "Augmented BNF for Syntax Speciﬁcations:

, January 2008,

<https://

Hollenbeck, S. "Extensible Provisioning Protocol (EPP)" STD 69 RFC 5730 DOI
10.17487/RFC5730

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5730>

, August 2009,

,
.

,

,

,

Gould & Casanova

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9038

Unhandled Namespaces

May 2021

[RFC5731]

[RFC8174]

,

Hollenbeck, S. "Extensible Provisioning Protocol (EPP) Domain Name Mapping"
,
STD 69 RFC 5731 DOI 10.17487/RFC5731
editor.org/info/rfc5731>

<https://www.rfc-

, August 2009,

.

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

.

,

,

[W3C.REC-xml11-20060816]

,

Bray, T. Paoli, J. Sperberg-McQueen, M. Maler, E. Yergeau, F.
J. Cowan "Extensible Markup Language (XML) 1.1 (Second Edition)" World
Wide Web Consortium Recommendation REC-xml11-20060816
<https://www.w3.org/TR/2006/REC-xml11-20060816>

.

,

,

,

,

,

, 16 August 2006,

, and

10.2.  Informative References

[RFC3735]

[RFC3915]

[RFC5910]

[RFC7451]

[RFC8590]

,

Hollenbeck, S. "Guidelines for Extending the Extensible Provisioning Protocol
(EPP)" RFC 3735 DOI 10.17487/RFC3735
editor.org/info/rfc3735>

<https://www.rfc-

, March 2004,

,

,

.

,

Hollenbeck, S. "Domain Registry Grace Period Mapping for the Extensible
Provisioning Protocol (EPP)" RFC 3915 DOI 10.17487/RFC3915
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3915>

,

,

.

, September 2004,

 and

S. Hollenbeck "Domain Name System (DNS) Security Extensions

Gould, J.
Mapping for the Extensible Provisioning Protocol (EPP)" RFC 5910 DOI
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5910>
10.17487/RFC5910

, May 2010,

,

,

,

,

Hollenbeck, S. "Extension Registry for the Extensible Provisioning Protocol"
RFC 7451 DOI 10.17487/RFC7451
info/rfc7451>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, February 2015,

,

.

 and

Gould, J.
Protocol (EPP)" RFC 8590 DOI 10.17487/RFC8590
.
editor.org/info/rfc8590>

K. Feher "Change Poll Extension for the Extensible Provisioning
<https://www.rfc-

, May 2019,

,

,

,

Acknowledgements

The authors wish to thank the following people for their feedback and suggestions:
Corte Scott Hollenbeck Patrick Mevzek
, and

Marcel Parodi
.

,

,

Thomas

Gould & Casanova

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9038

Unhandled Namespaces

May 2021

Authors' Addresses

James Gould
VeriSign, Inc.
12061 Bluemont Way
Reston VA 20190
United States of America
Email:
URI:

 jgould@verisign.com
 http://www.verisign.com

,

Martin Casanova
SWITCH
P.O. Box
CH-
Switzerland
Email:
URI:

8021 Zurich

 martin.casanova@switch.ch

 http://www.switch.ch

Gould & Casanova

Standards Track

Page 21

