Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9255
Standards Track
June 2022
2070-1721
R. Bush
Arrcus & IIJ Research

R. Housley
Vigil Security

RFC 9255
The 'I' in RPKI Does Not Stand for Identity

Abstract

There is a false notion that Internet Number Resources (INRs) in the RPKI can be associated with
the real-world identity of the 'holder' of an INR. This document speciﬁes that RPKI does not
associate to the INR holder.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

.
https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9255

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

Bush & Housley

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9255

The 'I' in RPKI Does Not Stand for Identity

June 2022

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

2.  The RPKI is for Authorization

3.  Discussion

4.  Security Considerations

5.  IANA Considerations

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

6.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

The Resource Public Key Infrastructure (RPKI), see
of IP address space and Autonomous System (AS) numbers," which are collectively known as
Internet Number Resources (INRs). Since initial deployment, the RPKI has grown to include other
similar resource and routing data, e.g., Router Keying for BGPsec

, "represents the allocation hierarchy

[RFC8635]

[RFC6480]

.

In security terms, the phrase "Public Key" implies there is also a corresponding private key
[RFC5280]
. The RPKI provides strong authority to the current holder of INRs; however, some
people have a desire to use RPKI private keys to sign arbitrary documents as the INR 'holder' of
those resources with the inappropriate expectation that the signature will be considered an
attestation to the authenticity of the document content. But, in reality, the RPKI certiﬁcate is only
an authorization to speak for the explicitly identiﬁed INRs; it is explicitly not intended for
authentication of the 'holders' of the INRs. This situation is emphasized in

Section 2.1 of [RFC6480]

.

It has been suggested that one could authenticate real-world business transactions with the
signatures of INR holders. For example, Bill's Bait and Sushi (BB&S) could use the private key
attesting to that they are the holder of their AS in the RPKI to sign a Letter of Authorization (LOA)
for some other party to rack and stack hardware owned by BB&S. Unfortunately, while this may
be technically possible, it is neither appropriate nor meaningful.

Bush & Housley

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9255

The 'I' in RPKI Does Not Stand for Identity

June 2022

The 'I' in RPKI actually stands for "Infrastructure," as in Resource Public Key Infrastructure, not
for "Identity". In fact, the RPKI does not provide any association between INRs and the real-world
holder(s) of those INRs. The RPKI provides authorization to make assertions only regarding
Internet Number Resources, such as IP preﬁxes or AS numbers, and data such as
System Provider Authorization (ASPA) records [ASPA-PROFILE]

Autonomous

.

In short, avoid the desire to use RPKI certiﬁcates for any purpose other than the veriﬁcation of
authorizations associated with the delegation of INRs or attestations related to INRs. Instead,
recognize that these authorizations and attestations take place irrespective of the identity of an
RPKI private key holder.

1.1.  Requirements Language

The key words "
", "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
", "
"
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

2.  The RPKI is for Authorization

The RPKI was designed and speciﬁed to sign certiﬁcates for use within the RPKI itself and to
generate Route Origin Authorizations (ROAs)
precluded use for attesting to real-world identity as, among other issues, it would expose the
Certiﬁcation Authority (CA) to liability.

 for use in routing. Its design intentionally

[RFC6480]

That the RPKI does not authenticate real-world identity is by design. If it tried to do so, aside from
the liability, it would end in a world of complexity with no proof of termination.

Registries such as the Regional Internet Registries (RIRs) provide INR to real-world identity
mapping through WHOIS
for the INRs that they allocate.

 and similar services. They claim to be authoritative, at least

[RFC3912]

That is, RPKI-based credentials of INRs
or transactions. That might be done with some formal external authentication of authority
allowing an otherwise anonymous INR holder to authenticate the particular document or
transaction. Given such external, i.e. non-RPKI, veriﬁcation of authority, the use of RPKI-based
credentials adds no authenticity.

 be used to authenticate real-world documents

MUST NOT

3.  Discussion

Section 2.1 of the RPKI base document [RFC6480]
PKI is that certiﬁcates do not attest to the identity of the subject."

 says explicitly "An important property of this

Section 3.1 of "Template for a Certiﬁcation Practice Statement (CPS) for the Resource PKI (RPKI)"
[RFC7382]
 states that the Subject name in each certiﬁcate SHOULD NOT be meaningful and goes
on to explain this at some length.

Bush & Housley

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9255

The 'I' in RPKI Does Not Stand for Identity

June 2022

Normally, the INR holder does not hold the private key attesting to their resources; the CA does.
The INR holder has a real-world business relationship with the CA for which they have likely
signed real-world documents.

As the INR holder does not have the keying material, they rely on the CA, to which they
presumably present credentials, to manipulate their INRs. These credentials may be user ID and
password (with two-factor authentication one hopes), a hardware token, client browser
certiﬁcates, etc.

Hence schemes such as Resource Tagged Attestations
RSC]

 must go to great lengths to extract the supposedly relevant keys from the CA.

[RPKI-RTA]

 and Signed Checklists

[RPKI-

For some particular INR, say, Bill's Bait and Sushi's Autonomous System (AS) number, someone
out on the net probably has the credentials to the CA account in which BB&S's INRs are registered.
That could be the owner of BB&S, Randy's Taco Stand, an IT vendor, or the Government of
Elbonia. One simply can not know.

In large organizations, INR management is often compartmentalized with no authority over
anything beyond dealing with INR registration. The INR manager for Bill's Bait and Sushi is
unlikely to be authorized to conduct bank transactions for BB&S, or even to authorize access to
BB&S's servers in some colocation facility.

Then there is the temporal issue. The holder of that AS may be BB&S today when some document
was signed, and could be the Government of Elbonia tomorrow. Or the resource could have been
administratively moved from one CA to another, likely requiring a change of keys. If so, how does
one determine if the signature on the real-world document is still valid?

While Ghostbuster Records
content is completely arbitrary and does not attest to holding of any INRs. They are merely clues
for operational support contact in case of technical RPKI problems.

 may seem to identify real-world entities, their semantic

[RFC6493]

Usually, before registering INRs, CAs require proof of an INR holding via external documentation
and authorities. It is somewhat droll that the CPS Template
diligence the CA must, or even might, conduct to assure the INRs are in fact owned by a registrant.

 does not mention any

[RFC7382]

That someone can provide 'proof of possession' of the private key signing over a particular INR
should not be taken to imply that they are a valid legal representative of the organization in
possession of that INR. They could be in an INR administrative role, and not be a formal
representative of the organization.

Autonomous System Numbers do not identify real-world entities. They are identiﬁers some
network operators 'own' and are only used for loop detection in routing. They have no inherent
semantics other than uniqueness.

Bush & Housley

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9255

The 'I' in RPKI Does Not Stand for Identity

June 2022

4.  Security Considerations

Attempts to use RPKI data to authenticate real-world documents or other artifacts requiring
identity, while possibly cryptographically valid within the RPKI, are misleading as to any
authenticity.

When a document is signed with the private key associated with an RPKI certiﬁcate, the signer is
speaking for the INRs (the IP address space and AS numbers) in the certiﬁcate. This is not an
identity; this is an authorization. In schemes such as Resource Tagged Attestations
and Signed Checklists
in the message are a subset of the INRs in the certiﬁcate. If the signature is valid, the message
content comes from a party that is authorized to speak for that subset of INRs.

, the signed message further narrows this scope of INRs. The INRs

[RPKI-RTA]

[RPKI-RSC]

Control of INRs for an entity could be used to falsely authorize transactions or documents for
which the INR manager has no authority.

5.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC5280]

[RFC6480]

[RFC7382]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
,
rfc2119>
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

,

,
W. Polk "Internet
Cooper, D. Santesson, S. Farrell, S. Boeyen, S. Housley, R.
X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certiﬁcate and Certiﬁcate Revocation List (CRL)
Proﬁle" RFC 5280 DOI 10.17487/RFC5280
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/
.
info/rfc5280>

, May 2008,

, and

,

,

,

,

 and

Lepinski, M.
,
RFC 6480 DOI 10.17487/RFC6480
.
rfc6480>

,

,
S. Kent "An Infrastructure to Support Secure Internet Routing"
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, February 2012,

, and

,
Kent, S. Kong, D.
(CPS) for the Resource PKI (RPKI)" BCP 173 RFC 7382 DOI 10.17487/RFC7382
2015,

K. Seo "Template for a Certiﬁcation Practice Statement

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7382>

,

,

,

,

, April

,
,
Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
.
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

Bush & Housley

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9255

The 'I' in RPKI Does Not Stand for Identity

June 2022

[RFC8635]

Bush, R. Turner, S.
,
10.17487/RFC8635

, and
, August 2019,

K. Patel "Router Keying for BGPsec" RFC 8635 DOI

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8635>
.

,

,

6.2.  Informative References

[ASPA-PROFILE]

Azimov, A. Uskov, E. Bush, R. Patel, K. Snijders, J.

,

,

,

,

, and

for Autonomous System Provider Authorization" Work in Progress Internet-
<https://
Draft, draft-ietf-sidrops-aspa-proﬁle-07
.
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-sidrops-aspa-proﬁle-07>

, 31 January 2022,

,

,
R. Housley "A Proﬁle
,

[RFC3912]

[RFC6493]

[RPKI-RSC]

[RPKI-RTA]

,
Daigle, L. "WHOIS Protocol Speciﬁcation" RFC 3912 DOI 10.17487/RFC3912
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3912>
September 2004,
.

,

,

,

,

Bush, R. "The Resource Public Key Infrastructure (RPKI) Ghostbusters Record"
,
RFC 6493 DOI 10.17487/RFC6493
, February 2012,
,
rfc6493>
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, and

,
Snijders, J. Harrison, T.
Infrastructure (RPKI) Signed Checklists (RSC)" Work in Progress Internet-Draft,
draft-ietf-sidrops-rpki-rsc-08
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/
.
draft-ietf-sidrops-rpki-rsc-08>

B. Maddison "A proﬁle for Resource Public Key

, 26 May 2022,

,

,

,

,

,
Michaelson, G. Huston, G. Harrison, T. Bruijnzeels, T.
M. Hoﬀmann "A
,
proﬁle for Resource Tagged Attestations (RTAs)" Work in Progress Internet-
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/
Draft, draft-ietf-sidrops-rpki-rta-00
.
doc/html/draft-ietf-sidrops-rpki-rta-00>

, 21 January 2021,

, and

,

,

,

Acknowledgments

The authors thank
Ties de Kock
some more formal text,
and last but not least, Biﬀ for the loan of Bill's Bait and Sushi.

George Michaelson

Job Snijders

 and

 for useful suggestions, many directorate and IESG reviewers,

 for lively discussion,

Geoﬀ Huston

 for

Authors' Addresses

Randy Bush
Arrcus & Internet Initiative Japan Research
5147 Crystal Springs
Bainbridge Island WA 98110
,
United States of America
 randy@psg.com
Email:

Bush & Housley

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9255

The 'I' in RPKI Does Not Stand for Identity

June 2022

Russ Housley
Vigil Security, LLC
516 Dranesville Road
Herndon VA 20170
,
United States of America
Email:

 housley@vigilsec.com

Bush & Housley

Standards Track

Page 7

