Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9172
Standards Track
January 2022
2070-1721
E. Birrane, III
JHU/APL

K. McKeever
JHU/APL

RFC 9172
Bundle Protocol Security (BPSec)

Abstract

This document deﬁnes a security protocol providing data integrity and conﬁdentiality services
for the Bundle Protocol (BP).

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9172
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

Birrane, III & McKeever

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9172

Bundle Protocol Security (BPSec)

January 2022

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Supported Security Services

1.2.  Speciﬁcation Scope

1.3.  Related Documents

1.4.  Terminology

2.  Design Decisions

2.1.  Block-Level Granularity

2.2.  Multiple Security Sources

2.3.  Mixed Security Policy

2.4.  User-Deﬁned Security Contexts

2.5.  Deterministic Processing

3.  Security Blocks

3.1.  Block Deﬁnitions

3.2.  Uniqueness

3.3.  Target Multiplicity

3.4.  Target Identiﬁcation

3.5.  Block Representation

3.6.  Abstract Security Block

3.7.  Block Integrity Block

3.8.  Block Conﬁdentiality Block

3.9.  Block Interactions

3.10. Parameter and Result Identiﬁcation

3.11. BPSec Block Examples

3.11.1.  Example 1: Constructing a Bundle with Security

3.11.2.  Example 2: Adding More Security at a New Node

4.  Canonical Forms

Birrane, III & McKeever

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9172

Bundle Protocol Security (BPSec)

January 2022

5.  Security Processing

5.1.  Bundles Received from Other Nodes

5.1.1.  Receiving BCBs

5.1.2.  Receiving BIBs

5.2.  Bundle Fragmentation and Reassembly

6.  Key Management

7.  Security Policy Considerations

7.1.  Security Reason Codes

8.  Security Considerations

8.1.  Attacker Capabilities and Objectives

8.2.  Attacker Behaviors and BPSec Mitigations

8.2.1.  Eavesdropping Attacks

8.2.2.  Modiﬁcation Attacks

8.2.3.  Topology Attacks

8.2.4.  Message Injection

9.  Security Context Considerations

9.1.  Mandating Security Contexts

9.2.  Identiﬁcation and Conﬁguration

9.3.  Authorship

10. Deﬁning Other Security Blocks

11. IANA Considerations

11.1.  Bundle Block Types

11.2.  Bundle Status Report Reason Codes

11.3.  Security Context Identiﬁers

12. References

12.1.  Normative References

12.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

Birrane, III & McKeever

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9172

Bundle Protocol Security (BPSec)

January 2022

1.  Introduction

This document deﬁnes security features for the Bundle Protocol (BP)
for use in Delay-Tolerant Networking (DTN) to provide security services between a security
source and a security acceptor. When the security source is the bundle source and the security
acceptor is the bundle destination, the security service provides end-to-end protection.

 and is intended

[RFC9171]

[RFC9171]

The Bundle Protocol speciﬁcation
 deﬁnes DTN as referring to "a network architecture
providing communications in and/or through highly stressed environments" where "BP may be
viewed as sitting at the application layer of some number of constituent networks, forming a
store-carry-forward overlay network". The phrase "stressed environment" refers to multiple
challenging conditions including intermittent connectivity, large and/or variable delays,
asymmetric data rates, and high bit error rates.

It should be presumed that the BP will be deployed in an untrusted network, which poses the usual
security challenges related to conﬁdentiality and integrity. However, the stressed nature of the BP
operating environment imposes unique conditions where usual transport security mechanisms
may not be suﬃcient. For example, the store-carry-forward nature of the network may require
protecting data at rest, preventing unauthorized consumption of critical resources such as
storage space, and operating without regular contact with a centralized security oracle (such as a
certiﬁcate authority).

An end-to-end security service that operates in all of the environments where the BP operates is
needed.

1.1.  Supported Security Services

BPSec provides integrity and conﬁdentiality services for BP bundles, as deﬁned in this section.

Integrity services ensure that changes to target data within a bundle can be discovered. Data
changes may be caused by processing errors, environmental conditions, or intentional
manipulation. In the context of BPSec, integrity services apply to plaintext in the bundle.

Conﬁdentiality services ensure that target data is unintelligible to nodes in DTN, except for
authorized nodes possessing special information. Generally, this means producing ciphertext
from plaintext and generating authentication information for that ciphertext. In this context,
conﬁdentiality applies to the contents of target data and does not extend to hiding the fact that
conﬁdentiality exists in the bundle.

NOTE: Hop-by-hop authentication is NOT a supported security service in this speciﬁcation, for
two reasons:

1.

The term "hop-by-hop" is ambiguous in a BP overlay, as nodes that are adjacent in the overlay
may not be adjacent in physical connectivity. This condition is diﬃcult or impossible to
detect; therefore, hop-by-hop authentication is diﬃcult or impossible to enforce.

Birrane, III & McKeever

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9172

Bundle Protocol Security (BPSec)

January 2022

2.

Hop-by-hop authentication cannot be deployed in a network if adjacent nodes in the
network have incompatible security capabilities.

1.2.  Speciﬁcation Scope

This document deﬁnes the security services provided by the BPSec. This includes the data
speciﬁcation for representing these services as BP extension blocks and the rules for adding,
removing, and processing these blocks at various points during the bundle's traversal of a delay-
tolerant network.

BPSec addresses only the security of data traveling over the DTN, not the underlying DTN itself.
Furthermore, while the BPSec protocol can provide security-at-rest in a store-carry-forward
network, it does not address threats that share computing resources with the DTN and/or BPSec
software implementations. These threats may be malicious software or compromised libraries
that intend to intercept data or recover cryptographic material. Here, it is the responsibility of the
BPSec implementer to ensure that any cryptographic material, including shared secrets or
private keys, is protected against access within both memory and storage devices.

Completely trusted networks are extremely uncommon. Among untrusted networks, diﬀerent
networking conditions and operational considerations require security mechanisms of varying
strengths. Mandating a single security context, which is a set of assumptions, algorithms,
conﬁgurations, and policies used to implement security services, may result in too much security
for some networks and too little security in others. Default security contexts are deﬁned in
[RFC9173]
 to provide basic security services for interoperability testing and for operational use
on the terrestrial Internet. It is expected that separate documents will deﬁne diﬀerent security
contexts for use in diﬀerent networks.

This speciﬁcation addresses neither the ﬁtness of externally deﬁned cryptographic methods nor
the security of their implementation.

This speciﬁcation does not address the implementation of security policies and does not provide
a security policy for the BPSec. Similar to cipher suites, security policies are based on the nature
and capabilities of individual networks and network operational concepts. This speciﬁcation
does provide policy considerations that can be taken into account when building a security
policy.

With the exception of the Bundle Protocol, this speciﬁcation does not address how to combine the
BPSec security blocks with other protocols, other BP extension blocks, or other best practices to
achieve security in any particular network implementation.

1.3.  Related Documents

This document is best read and understood within the context of the following other DTN
documents:

•

[RFC4838]
"Delay-Tolerant Networking Architecture"
identiﬁes certain security assumptions made by existing Internet protocols that are not valid
in DTN.

 deﬁnes the architecture for DTN and

Birrane, III & McKeever

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9172

Bundle Protocol Security (BPSec)

January 2022

•

 deﬁnes the format and processing of bundles, the
"Bundle Protocol Version 7"
extension block format used to represent BPSec security blocks, and the canonical block
structure used by this speciﬁcation.

[RFC9171]

•

"Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR)"
 deﬁnes a data format that allows
for small code size, fairly small message size, and extensibility without version negotiation.
The block-type-speciﬁc data associated with BPSec security blocks is encoded in this data
format.

[RFC8949]

•

"Bundle Security Protocol Speciﬁcation"
[RFC6257]
extension blocks for security services in DTN. BPSec is a continuation and reﬁnement of this
document.

 introduces the concept of using BP

1.4.  Terminology

The key words "
", "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
", "
"
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

This section deﬁnes terminology that either is unique to the BPSec or is necessary for
understanding the concepts deﬁned in this speciﬁcation.

Bundle Destination:

the Bundle Protocol Agent (BPA) that receives a bundle and delivers the
payload of the bundle to an Application Agent. Also, an endpoint comprising the node(s) at
which the bundle is to be delivered. The bundle destination acts as the security acceptor for
every security target in every security block in every bundle it receives.

Bundle Source:

the BPA that originates a bundle. Also, any node ID of the node of which the BPA

is a component.

Cipher Suite:

a set of one or more algorithms providing integrity and/or conﬁdentiality services.

Cipher suites may deﬁne user parameters (e.g., secret keys to use), but they do not provide
values for those parameters.

Forwarder:

any BPA that transmits a bundle in DTN. Also, any node ID of the node of which the

BPA that sent the bundle on its most recent hop is a component.

Intermediate Receiver, Waypoint, or Next Hop:

any BPA that receives a bundle from a

forwarder that is not the bundle destination. Also, any node ID of the node of which the BPA is
a component.

Path:

the ordered sequence of nodes through which a bundle passes on its way from source to

destination. The path is not necessarily known in advance by the bundle or any BPAs in DTN.

Security Acceptor:

a BPA that processes and dispositions one or more security blocks in a

bundle. Security acceptors act as the endpoint of a security service represented in a security
block. They remove the security blocks they act upon as part of processing and disposition.
Also, any node ID of the node of which the BPA is a component.

Birrane, III & McKeever

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9172

Bundle Protocol Security (BPSec)

January 2022

Security Block:

a BPSec extension block in a bundle.

Security Context:

the set of assumptions, algorithms, conﬁgurations, and policies used to

implement security services.

Security Operation:

the application of a given security service to a security target, notated as

OP(security service, security target). For example, OP(bcb-conﬁdentiality, payload). Every
security operation in a bundle
be applied to a security target once in a bundle. A security operation is implemented by a
security block.

 be unique, meaning that a given security service can only

MUST

Security Service:

a process that gives some protection to a security target. For example, this

speciﬁcation deﬁnes security services for plaintext integrity (bib-integrity) and authenticated
plaintext conﬁdentiality with additional authenticated data (bcb-conﬁdentiality).

Security Source:

a BPA that adds a security block to a bundle. Also, any node ID of the node of

which the BPA is a component.

Security Target:
operation.

the block within a bundle that receives a security service as part of a security

Security Veriﬁer:

a BPA that veriﬁes the data integrity of one or more security blocks in a

bundle. Unlike security acceptors, security veriﬁers do not act as the endpoint of a security
service, and they do not remove veriﬁed security blocks. Also, any node ID of the node of
which the BPA is a component.

2.  Design Decisions

The application of security services in DTN is a complex endeavor that must consider physical
properties of the network (such as connectivity and propagation times), policies at each node,
application security requirements, and current and future threat environments. This section
identiﬁes those desirable properties that guide design decisions for this speciﬁcation and that are
necessary for understanding the format and behavior of the BPSec protocol.

2.1.  Block-Level Granularity

Security services within this speciﬁcation must allow diﬀerent blocks within a bundle to have
diﬀerent security services applied to them.

Blocks within a bundle represent diﬀerent types of information. The primary block contains
identiﬁcation and routing information. The payload block carries application data. Extension
blocks carry a variety of data that may augment or annotate the payload or that otherwise
provide information necessary for the proper processing of a bundle along a path. Therefore,
applying a single level and type of security across an entire bundle fails to recognize that blocks
in a bundle represent diﬀerent types of information with diﬀerent security needs.

Birrane, III & McKeever

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9172

Bundle Protocol Security (BPSec)

January 2022

For example, a payload block might be encrypted to protect its contents and an extension block
containing summary information related to the payload might be integrity signed but
unencrypted to provide waypoints access to payload-related data without providing access to the
payload.

2.2.  Multiple Security Sources

A bundle can have multiple security blocks, and these blocks can have diﬀerent security sources.
BPSec implementations
operations applied to them.

 assume that all blocks in a bundle have the same security

MUST NOT

The Bundle Protocol allows extension blocks to be added to a bundle at any time during its
existence in DTN. When a waypoint adds a new extension block to a bundle, that extension block
MAY
security service to an existing block, consistent with its security policy.

 have security services applied to it by that waypoint. Similarly, a waypoint

 add a

MAY

When a waypoint adds a security service to the bundle, the waypoint is the security source for
that service. The security block(s) that represent that service in the bundle may need to record
this security source, as the bundle destination might need this information for processing.

For example, a bundle source may choose to apply an integrity service to its plaintext payload.
Later a waypoint node, representing a gateway to another portion of the delay-tolerant network,
may receive the bundle and choose to apply a conﬁdentiality service. In this case, the integrity
security source is the bundle source and the conﬁdentiality security source is the waypoint node.

In cases where the security source and security acceptor are not the bundle source and bundle
destination, respectively, it is possible that the bundle will reach the bundle destination prior to
reaching a security acceptor. In cases where this may be a practical problem, it is recommended
that solutions such as bundle encapsulation be used to ensure that a bundle be delivered to a
security acceptor prior to being delivered to the bundle destination. Generally, if a bundle reaches
a waypoint that has the appropriate conﬁguration and policy to act as a security acceptor for a
security service in the bundle, then the waypoint should act as that security acceptor.

2.3.  Mixed Security Policy

The security policy enforced by nodes in the delay-tolerant network may diﬀer.

Some waypoints will have security policies that require the waypoint to evaluate security services
even if the waypoint is neither the bundle destination nor the ﬁnal intended acceptor of the
service. For example, a waypoint could choose to verify an integrity service even though the
waypoint is not the bundle destination and the integrity service will be needed by other nodes
along the bundle's path.

Some waypoints will determine, through policy, that they are the intended recipient of the
security service and will terminate the security service in the bundle. For example, a gateway
node could determine that, even though it is not the destination of the bundle, it should verify and
remove a particular integrity service or attempt to decrypt a conﬁdentiality service, before
forwarding the bundle along its path.

Birrane, III & McKeever

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9172

Bundle Protocol Security (BPSec)

January 2022

Some waypoints could understand security blocks but refuse to process them unless they are the
bundle destination.

2.4.  User-Deﬁned Security Contexts

A security context is the set of assumptions, algorithms, conﬁgurations, and policies used to
implement security services. Diﬀerent contexts may specify diﬀerent algorithms, diﬀerent
polices, or diﬀerent conﬁguration values used in the implementation of their security services.
BPSec provides a mechanism to deﬁne security contexts. Users may select from registered
security contexts and customize those contexts through security context parameters.

For example, some users might prefer a SHA2 hash function for integrity, whereas other users
might prefer a SHA3 hash function. Providing either separate security contexts or a single,
parameterized security context allows users ﬂexibility in applying the desired cipher suite, policy,
and conﬁguration when populating a security block.

2.5.  Deterministic Processing

Whenever a node determines that it must process more than one security block in a received
bundle (either because the policy at a waypoint states that it should process security blocks or
because the node is the bundle destination), the order in which security blocks are processed must
be deterministic. All nodes must impose this same deterministic processing order for all security
blocks. This speciﬁcation provides determinism in the application and evaluation of security
services, even when doing so results in a loss of ﬂexibility.

3.  Security Blocks

3.1.  Block Deﬁnitions

This speciﬁcation deﬁnes two types of security block: the Block Integrity Block (BIB) and the
Block Conﬁdentiality Block (BCB).

•

MAY

 be veriﬁed by any node along the bundle path from the BIB

The BIB is used to ensure the integrity of its plaintext security target(s). The integrity
information in the BIB
security source to the bundle destination. Waypoints add or remove BIBs from bundles in
accordance with their security policy. BIBs are never used for integrity protection of the
ciphertext provided by a BCB. Because security policy at BPSec nodes may diﬀer regarding
integrity veriﬁcation, BIBs do not guarantee hop-by-hop authentication, as discussed in
Section 1.1.

•

The BCB indicates that the security target or targets have been encrypted at the BCB security
source in order to protect their content while in transit. As a matter of security policy, the BCB
is decrypted by security acceptor nodes in the network, up to and including the bundle
destination. BCBs additionally provide integrity-protection mechanisms for the ciphertext
they generate.

Birrane, III & McKeever

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9172

Bundle Protocol Security (BPSec)

January 2022

3.2.  Uniqueness

MUST

Security operations in a bundle
to a security target more than once in a bundle. Since a security operation is represented by a
security block, this means that multiple security blocks of the same type cannot share the same
security targets. A new security block
block of the same type is already deﬁned for the security target of the new security block.

 be added to a bundle if a preexisting security

 be unique; the same security service

 be applied

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

This uniqueness requirement ensures that there is no ambiguity related to the order in which
security blocks are processed or how security policy can be speciﬁed to require certain security
services be present in a bundle.

Using the notation OP(service, target), several examples illustrate this uniqueness requirement.

Signing the payload twice:

payload) are redundant and

The two operations OP(bib-integrity, payload) and OP(bib-integrity,
 both be present in the same bundle at the same time.

MUST NOT

Signing diﬀerent blocks:

The two operations OP(bib-integrity, payload) and OP(bib-integrity,
extension_block_1) are not redundant and both may be present in the same bundle at the
same time. Similarly, the two operations OP(bib-integrity, extension_block_1) and OP(bib-
integrity, extension_block_2) are also not redundant and may both be present in the bundle at
the same time.

Diﬀerent services on same block:

The two operations OP(bib-integrity, payload) and OP(bcb-

conﬁdentiality, payload) are not inherently redundant and may both be present in the bundle
at the same time, pursuant to other processing rules in this speciﬁcation.

Diﬀerent services from diﬀerent block types:

The notation OP(service, target) refers speciﬁcally

to a security block, as the security block is the embodiment of a security service applied to a
security target in a bundle. Were some Other Security Block (OSB) to be deﬁned providing an
integrity service, then the operations OP(bib-integrity, target) and OP(osb-integrity, target)
both be present in the same bundle if so allowed by the deﬁnition of the OSB, as discussed in
Section 10.

MAY

NOTES:

•

A security block may be removed from a bundle as part of security processing at a waypoint
node with a new security block being added to the bundle by that node. In this case,
conﬂicting security blocks never coexist in the bundle at the same time and the uniqueness
requirement is not violated.

•

A ciphertext integrity-protection mechanism (such as associated authenticated data)
calculated by a cipher suite and transported in a BCB is considered part of the conﬁdentiality
service; therefore, it is unique from the plaintext integrity service provided by a BIB.

•

The security blocks deﬁned in this speciﬁcation (BIB and BCB) are designed with the
intention that the BPA adding these blocks is the authoritative source of the security service.
If a BPA adds a BIB on a security target, then the BIB is expected to be the authoritative source

Birrane, III & McKeever

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9172

Bundle Protocol Security (BPSec)

January 2022

of integrity for that security target. If a BPA adds a BCB to a security target, then the BCB is
expected to be the authoritative source of conﬁdentiality for that security target. More
complex scenarios, such as having multiple nodes in a network sign the same security target,
can be accommodated using the deﬁnition of custom security contexts (see Section 9) and/or
the deﬁnition of OSBs (see Section 10).

3.3.  Target Multiplicity

MAY

 represent multiple security operations as a way of reducing the
A single security block
overall number of security blocks present in a bundle. In these circumstances, reducing the
number of security blocks in the bundle reduces the amount of redundant information in the
bundle.

A set of security operations can be represented by a single security block when all of the following
conditions are true.

•

The security operations apply the same security service. For example, they are all integrity
operations or all conﬁdentiality operations.

•

The security context parameters for the security operations are identical.

•

The security source for the security operations is the same, meaning the set of operations are
being added by the same node.

•

No security operations have the same security target, as that would violate the need for
security operations to be unique.

•

None of the security operations conﬂict with security operations already present in the
bundle.

When representing multiple security operations in a single security block, the information that is
common across all operations is represented once in the security block; the information that is
diﬀerent (e.g., the security targets) is represented individually.

If a node processes any security operation in a security block, it is
all security operations in the security block. This allows security sources to assert that the set of
security operations in a security block are expected to be processed by the same security
acceptor. However, the determination of whether a node actually is a security acceptor or not is a
matter of the policy of the node itself. In cases where a receiving node determines that it is the
security acceptor of only a subset of the security operations in a security block, the node may
choose to only process that subset of security operations.

 that it process

RECOMMENDED

3.4.  Target Identiﬁcation

A security target is a block in the bundle to which a security service applies. This target must be
uniquely and unambiguously identiﬁable when processing a security block. The deﬁnition of the
extension block header from
 provides a "block number" ﬁeld suitable for this purpose.
Therefore, a security target in a security block
target block.

 be represented as the block number of the

[RFC9171]

MUST

Birrane, III & McKeever

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9172

Bundle Protocol Security (BPSec)

January 2022

3.5.  Block Representation

Each security block uses the Canonical Bundle Block Format as deﬁned in
security block is comprised of the following elements:

[RFC9171]

. That is, each

•

block type code

•

block number

•

block processing control ﬂags

•

cyclic redundancy check (CRC) type

•

block-type-speciﬁc data

•

CRC ﬁeld (if present)

Security-speciﬁc information for a security block is captured in the block-type-speciﬁc data ﬁeld.

3.6.  Abstract Security Block

The structure of the security-speciﬁc portions of a security block is identical for both the BIB and
BCB block types. Therefore, this section deﬁnes an Abstract Security Block (ASB) data structure
and discusses its deﬁnition, its processing, and other constraints for using this structure. An ASB is
never directly instantiated within a bundle, it is only a mechanism for discussing the common
aspects of BIB and BCB security blocks.

The ﬁelds of the ASB
encoding of these ﬁelds

SHALL

 be as follows, listed in the order in which they must appear. The

MUST

 be in accordance with the canonical forms provided in Section 4.

Security Targets:

 be represented by a Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR) array of data

This ﬁeld identiﬁes the block(s) targeted by the security operation(s) represented by this
security block. Each target block is represented by its unique block number. This ﬁeld
SHALL
items. Each target within this CBOR array
integer. This array
MUST
number of a block that exists in the bundle. There
array. The order of elements in this list has no semantic meaning outside of the context of
this block. Within the block, the ordering of targets must match the ordering of results
associated with these targets.

SHALL
 have at least one entry and each entry

 be represented by a CBOR unsigned
MUST

 be duplicate entries in this

 represent the block

MUST NOT

Security Context Id:

This ﬁeld identiﬁes the security context used to implement the security service represented
by this block and applied to each security target. This ﬁeld
 be represented by a CBOR
unsigned integer. The values for this Id should come from the registry deﬁned in Section
11.3.

SHALL

Birrane, III & McKeever

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9172

Bundle Protocol Security (BPSec)

January 2022

Security Context Flags:

This ﬁeld identiﬁes which optional ﬁelds are present in the security block. This ﬁeld
be represented as a CBOR unsigned integer whose contents shall be interpreted as a bit
ﬁeld. Each bit in this bit ﬁeld indicates the presence (bit set to 1) or absence (bit set to 0) of
optional data in the security block. The association of bits to security block data is deﬁned
as follows.

SHALL

Bit 0

(the least-signiﬁcant bit, 0x01): "Security context parameters present" ﬂag.

Bit >0

Reserved

MUST

 set reserved bits to 0 when writing this ﬁeld and

Implementations
 ignore the
values of reserved bits when reading this ﬁeld. For unreserved bits, a value of 1 indicates
that the associated security block ﬁeld
indicates that the associated security block ﬁeld

 be included in the security block. A value of 0

 be in the security block.

MUST NOT

MUST

MUST

Security Source:

This ﬁeld identiﬁes the BPA that inserted the security block in the bundle. Also, any node ID
of the node of which the BPA is a component. This ﬁeld
array in accordance with the rules in

 for representing endpoint IDs (EIDs).

 be represented by a CBOR

[RFC9171]

SHALL

Security Context Parameters (Optional):

This ﬁeld captures one or more security context parameters that should be used when
processing the security service described by this security block. This ﬁeld
SHALL
represented by a CBOR array. Each entry in this array is a single security context
parameter. A single parameter
tuple of the Id and value of the parameter, as follows.

 also be represented as a CBOR array comprising a 2-

SHALL

 be

Parameter Id:

This ﬁeld identiﬁes which parameter is being speciﬁed. This ﬁeld

SHALL
represented as a CBOR unsigned integer. Parameter Ids are selected as described in
Section 3.10.

 be

Parameter Value:

This ﬁeld captures the value associated with this parameter. This ﬁeld

 be represented by the applicable CBOR representation of the parameter, in

SHALL
accordance with Section 3.10.

The logical layout of the parameters array is illustrated in Figure 1.

+----------------+----------------+     +----------------+
|  Parameter 1   |  Parameter 2   | ... |  Parameter N   |
+------+---------+------+---------+     +------+---------+
|  Id  |  Value  |  Id  |  Value  |     |  Id  |  Value  |
+------+---------+------+---------+     +------+---------+

Figure 1: Security Context Parameters

Birrane, III & McKeever

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9172

Bundle Protocol Security (BPSec)

January 2022

Security Results:

SHALL

 be represented as a CBOR array of target results. Each entry

This ﬁeld captures the results of applying a security service to the security targets of the
security block. This ﬁeld
in this array represents the set of security results for a speciﬁc security target. The target
 be ordered identically to the Security Targets ﬁeld of the security block. This
results
means that the ﬁrst set of target results in this array corresponds to the ﬁrst entry in the
Security Targets ﬁeld of the security block, and so on. There
for each entry in the Security Targets ﬁeld of the security block.

 be one entry in this array

MUST

MUST

The set of security results for a target is also represented as a CBOR array of individual
results. An individual result is represented as a CBOR array comprising a 2-tuple of a result
Id and a result value, deﬁned as follows.

Result Id:

This ﬁeld identiﬁes which security result is being speciﬁed. Some security results

capture the primary output of a cipher suite. Other security results contain additional
annotative information from cipher suite processing. This ﬁeld
a CBOR unsigned integer. Security result Ids will be as speciﬁed in Section 3.10.

 be represented as

SHALL

Result Value:

This ﬁeld captures the value associated with the result. This ﬁeld

 be
represented by the applicable CBOR representation of the result value, in accordance
with Section 3.10.

SHALL

The logical layout of the security results array is illustrated in Figure 2. In this ﬁgure, there
are N security targets for this security block. The ﬁrst security target contains M results and
the Nth security target contains K results.

+--------------------------+     +---------------------------+
|          Target 1        |     |         Target N          |
+----------+----+----------+     +---------------------------+
| Result 1 |    | Result M | ... | Result 1 |    |  Result K |
+----+-----+ .. +----+-----+     +---+------+ .. +----+------+
| Id |Value|    | Id |Value|     | Id |Value|    | Id | Value|
+----+-----+    +----+-----+     +----+-----+    +----+------+

Figure 2: Security Results

3.7.  Block Integrity Block

A BIB is a BP extension block with the following characteristics.

•

The block type code value is as speciﬁed in Section 11.1.

•

The block-type-speciﬁc data ﬁeld follows the structure of the ASB.

•

A security target listed in the Security Targets ﬁeld
deﬁned in this speciﬁcation (e.g., a BIB or a BCB).

MUST NOT

 reference a security block

•

The security context
mechanism.

MUST

 utilize an authentication mechanism or an error detection

Birrane, III & McKeever

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9172

Notes:

Bundle Protocol Security (BPSec)

January 2022

•

Designers
delete the bundle in the event that this block cannot be processed.

 carefully consider the eﬀect of setting ﬂags that either discard the block or

SHOULD

•

Since OP(bib-integrity, target) is allowed only once in a bundle per target, it is
that users wishing to support multiple integrity-protection mechanisms for the same target
deﬁne a multi-result security context. Such a context could generate multiple security results
for the same security target using diﬀerent integrity-protection mechanisms or diﬀerent
conﬁgurations for the same integrity-protection mechanism.

RECOMMENDED

•

A BIB is used to verify the plaintext integrity of its security target. However, a single BIB
include security results for blocks other than its security target when doing so establishes a
needed relationship between the BIB security target and other blocks in the bundle (such as
the primary block).

MAY

•

Security information
has access to the required keying information, in accordance with Section 3.9.

 be checked at any hop on the way to the bundle destination that

MAY

3.8.  Block Conﬁdentiality Block

A BCB is a BP extension block with the following characteristics.

•

The block type code value is as speciﬁed in Section 11.1.

•

The block processing control ﬂags value can be set to whatever values are required by local
policy with the following exceptions:
◦

BCBs
 have the "Block must be replicated in every fragment" ﬂag set if one of the
targets is the payload block. Having that BCB in each fragment indicates to a receiving
node that the payload portion of each fragment represents ciphertext.

MUST

◦

MUST NOT

 have the "Block must be removed from bundle if it can't be processed" ﬂag

BCBs
set. Removing a BCB from a bundle without decrypting its security targets removes
information from the bundle necessary for their later decryption.

•

The block-type-speciﬁc data ﬁelds follow the structure of the ASB.

•

A security target listed in the Security Targets ﬁeld can reference the payload block, a non-
security extension block, or a BIB. A BCB
MUST NOT
A BCB
security target with that BIB.

 target the primary block. A BCB

 include another BCB as a security target.

 target a BIB unless it shares a

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

•

Any security context used by a BCB
authenticated encryption with associated data (AEAD).

MUST

 utilize a conﬁdentiality cipher that provides

•

Additional information created by a cipher suite (such as an authentication tag) can be
placed either in a security result ﬁeld or in the generated ciphertext. The determination of
where to place this information is a function of the cipher suite and security context used.

The BCB modiﬁes the contents of its security target(s). When a BCB is applied, the security target
body data are encrypted "in-place". Following encryption, the security target block-type-speciﬁc
data ﬁeld contains ciphertext, not plaintext.

Birrane, III & McKeever

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9172

Notes:

Bundle Protocol Security (BPSec)

January 2022

•

RECOMMENDED

It is
bundle in the event that this block cannot be processed.

 that designers carefully consider the eﬀect of setting ﬂags that delete the

•

The BCB block processing control ﬂags can be set independently from the processing control
ﬂags of the security target(s). The setting of such ﬂags should be an implementation/policy
decision for the encrypting node.

3.9.  Block Interactions

The security block types deﬁned in this speciﬁcation are designed to be as independent as
possible. However, there are some cases where security blocks may share a security target; this
sharing creates processing dependencies.

If a BCB and a BIB share a security target, an undesirable condition occurs: a waypoint would be
unable to validate the BIB because the shared security target has been encrypted by the BCB. To
address this situation, the following processing rules

 be followed:

MUST

•

When adding a BCB to a bundle, if some (or all) of the security targets of the BCB match all of
 also be encrypted. This can
the security targets of an existing BIB, then the existing BIB
be accomplished either by adding a new BCB that targets the existing BIB or by adding the
BIB to the list of security targets for the BCB. Deciding which way to represent this situation is
a matter of security policy.

MUST

•

When adding a BCB to a bundle, if some (or all) of the security targets of the BCB match some
(but not all) of the security targets of a BIB, then that BIB
way. Any security results in the BIB associated with the BCB security targets
MUST
from the BIB and placed in a new BIB. This newly created BIB
 then be encrypted. The
encryption of the new BIB can be accomplished either by adding a new BCB that targets the
new BIB or by adding the new BIB to the list of security targets for the BCB. Deciding which
way to represent this situation is a matter of security policy.

 be altered in the following

 be removed

MUST

MUST

•

MUST NOT

A BIB
this would cause ambiguity in block processing order.

 be added for a security target that is already the security target of a BCB as

•

A BIB integrity value
In this case, the BIB data is encrypted.

MUST NOT

 be checked if the BIB is the security target of an existing BCB.

•

A BIB integrity value
also the security target of a BCB. In such a case, the security target data contains ciphertext as
it has been encrypted.

 be checked if the security target associated with that value is

MUST NOT

•

As mentioned in Section 3.7, a BIB

MUST NOT

 have a BCB as its security target.

These restrictions on block interactions impose a necessary ordering when applying security
operations within a bundle. Speciﬁcally, for a given security target, BIBs
 be preserved in cases where the current BPA is adding all of the security
BCBs. This ordering
blocks for the bundle or where the BPA is a waypoint adding new security blocks to a bundle that
already contains security blocks.

 be added before

MUST

MUST

Birrane, III & McKeever

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9172

Bundle Protocol Security (BPSec)

January 2022

In cases where a security source wishes to calculate both a plaintext integrity-protection
mechanism and encrypt a security target, a BCB with a security context that generates an
integrity-protection mechanism as one or more additional security results
MUST
of adding both a BIB and then a BCB for the security target at the security source.

 be used instead

3.10.  Parameter and Result Identiﬁcation

MUST

Each security context
parameter and result is represented as the tuple of an identiﬁer and a value. Identiﬁers are
always represented as a CBOR unsigned integer. The CBOR encoding of values is as deﬁned by the
security context speciﬁcation.

 deﬁne its own context parameters and results. Each deﬁned

Identiﬁers
security contexts.

MUST

 be unique for a given security context but do not need to be unique amongst all

An example of a security context can be found in

[RFC9173]

.

3.11.  BPSec Block Examples

This section provides two examples of BPSec blocks applied to bundles. In the ﬁrst example, a
single node adds several security operations to a bundle. In the second example, a waypoint node
received the bundle created in the ﬁrst example and adds additional security operations. In both
examples, the ﬁrst column represents blocks within a bundle and the second column represents
the block number for the block, using the terminology B1...Bn for the purpose of illustration.

3.11.1.  Example 1: Constructing a Bundle with Security

In this example, a bundle has four non-security-related blocks: the primary block (B1), two
extension blocks (B4, B5), and a payload block (B6). The bundle source wishes to provide an
integrity signature of the plaintext associated with the primary block, the second extension block,
and the payload. The bundle source also wishes to provide conﬁdentiality for the ﬁrst extension
block. The resultant bundle is illustrated in Figure 3 and the security actions are described below.

Birrane, III & McKeever

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9172

Bundle Protocol Security (BPSec)

January 2022

              Block in Bundle                ID
+==========================================+====+
|              Primary Block               | B1 |
+------------------------------------------+----+
|                    BIB                   | B2 |
|   OP(bib-integrity, targets = B1, B5, B6)|    |
+------------------------------------------+----+
|                    BCB                   | B3 |
|    OP(bcb-confidentiality, target = B4)  |    |
+------------------------------------------+----+
|       Extension Block (encrypted)        | B4 |
+------------------------------------------+----+
|              Extension Block             | B5 |
+------------------------------------------+----+
|               Payload Block              | B6 |
+------------------------------------------+----+

Figure 3: Security at Bundle Creation

The following security actions were applied to this bundle at its time of creation.

•

An integrity signature applied to the canonical form of the primary block (B1), the canonical
form of the block-type-speciﬁc data ﬁeld of the second extension block (B5), and the
canonical form of the payload block (B6). This is accomplished by a single BIB (B2) with
multiple targets. A single BIB is used in this case because all three targets share a security
source, security context, and security context parameters. Had this not been the case,
multiple BIBs could have been added instead.

•

Conﬁdentiality for the ﬁrst extension block (B4). This is accomplished by a BCB (B3). Once
applied, the block-type-speciﬁc data ﬁeld of extension block B4 is encrypted. The BCB
MUST
hold an authentication tag for the ciphertext either in the ciphertext that now populates the
ﬁrst extension block or as a security result in the BCB itself, depending on which security
context is used to form the BCB. A plaintext integrity signature may also exist as a security
result in the BCB if one is provided by the selected conﬁdentiality security context.

3.11.2.  Example 2: Adding More Security at a New Node

Consider that the bundle as it is illustrated in Figure 3 is now received by a waypoint node that
wishes to encrypt the second extension block and the bundle payload. The waypoint security
policy is to allow existing BIBs for these blocks to persist, as they may be required as part of the
security policy at the bundle destination.

The resultant bundle is illustrated in Figure 4 and the security actions are described below. Note
that block IDs provided here are ordered solely for the purpose of this example and are not meant
to impose an ordering for block creation. The ordering of blocks added to a bundle
be in compliance with

[RFC9171]

 always

MUST

.

Birrane, III & McKeever

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9172

Bundle Protocol Security (BPSec)

January 2022

              Block in Bundle                ID
+==========================================+====+
|              Primary Block               | B1 |
+------------------------------------------+----+
|                    BIB                   | B2 |
|      OP(bib-integrity, target = B1)      |    |
+------------------------------------------+----+
|                    BIB (encrypted)       | B7 |
|      OP(bib-integrity, targets = B5, B6) |    |
+------------------------------------------+----+
|                    BCB                   | B8 |
|OP(bcb-confidentiality,targets = B5,B6,B7)|    |
+------------------------------------------+----+
|                    BCB                   | B3 |
|    OP(bcb-confidentiality, target = B4)  |    |
+------------------------------------------+----+
|       Extension Block (encrypted)        | B4 |
+------------------------------------------+----+
|       Extension Block (encrypted)        | B5 |
+------------------------------------------+----+
|         Payload Block (encrypted)        | B6 |
+------------------------------------------+----+

Figure 4: Security at Bundle Forwarding

The following security actions were applied to this bundle prior to its forwarding from the
waypoint node.

•

MUST

 also encrypt the block-type-speciﬁc data ﬁeld of the BIBs providing plaintext

Since the waypoint node wishes to encrypt the block-type-speciﬁc data ﬁeld of blocks B5 and
B6, it
integrity over those blocks. However, BIB B2 could not be encrypted in its entirety because it
also held a signature for the primary block (B1). Therefore, a new BIB (B7) is created and
security results associated with B5 and B6 are moved out of BIB B2 and into BIB B7.

•

Now that there is no longer confusion about which plaintext integrity signatures must be
encrypted, a BCB is added to the bundle with the security targets being the second extension
block (B5) and the payload (B6) as well as the newly created BIB holding their plaintext
integrity signatures (B7). A single new BCB is used in this case because all three targets share a
security source, security context, and security context parameters. Had this not been the
case, multiple BCBs could have been added instead.

4.  Canonical Forms

Security services require consistency and determinism in how information is presented to cipher
suites at security sources, veriﬁers, and acceptors. For example, integrity services require that the
same target information (e.g., the same bits in the same order) is provided to the cipher suite
when generating an original signature and when validating a signature. Canonicalization
algorithms transcode the contents of a security target into a canonical form.

Canonical forms are used to generate input to a security context for security processing at a BP
node. If the values of a security target are unchanged, then the canonical form of that target will
be the same even if the encoding of those values for wire transmission is diﬀerent.

Birrane, III & McKeever

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9172

Bundle Protocol Security (BPSec)

January 2022

BPSec operates on data ﬁelds within bundle blocks (e.g., the block-type-speciﬁc data ﬁeld). In their
canonical form, these ﬁelds
 include any
other encapsulating CBOR encoding. For example, the canonical form of the block-type-speciﬁc
data ﬁeld is a CBOR byte string existing within the CBOR array containing the ﬁelds of the
extension block. The entire CBOR byte string is considered the canonical block-type-speciﬁc data
ﬁeld. The CBOR array framing is not considered part of the ﬁeld.

 include their own CBOR encoding and

MUST NOT

MUST

The canonical form of the primary block is as speciﬁed in
constraint.

[RFC9171]

 with the following

•

CBOR values from the primary block
Deterministically Encoded CBOR, as speciﬁed in

MUST

[RFC8949]

.

 be canonicalized using the rules for

All non-primary blocks share the same block structure and are canonicalized as speciﬁed in
[RFC9171]

 with the following constraints.

•

CBOR values from the non-primary block
MUST
Deterministically Encoded CBOR, as speciﬁed in

 be canonicalized using the rules for
[RFC8949]

.

•

Only the block-type-speciﬁc data ﬁeld may be provided to a cipher suite for encryption as
part of a conﬁdentiality security service. Other ﬁelds within a non-primary block
be encrypted or decrypted and
cipher suite for encryption and decryption. An integrity-protection mechanism
applied to these other ﬁelds as supported by the security context. For example, these ﬁelds
might be treated as associated authenticated data.

 be included in the canonical form used by the
 be

MUST NOT

MAY

MUST NOT

•

Reserved and unassigned ﬂags in the block processing control ﬂags ﬁeld
canonical form as it is not known if those ﬂags will change in transit.

MUST

 be set to 0 in a

MAY

 deﬁne their own canonicalization algorithms and require the use of those

Security contexts
algorithms over the ones provided in this speciﬁcation. In the event of conﬂicting
canonicalization algorithms, algorithms deﬁned in a security context take precedence over this
speciﬁcation when constructing canonical forms for that security context.

5.  Security Processing

This section describes the security aspects of bundle processing.

5.1.  Bundles Received from Other Nodes

Security blocks must be processed in a speciﬁc order when received by a BP node. The processing
order is as follows.

•

When BIBs and BCBs share a security target, BCBs

MUST

 be evaluated ﬁrst and BIBs second.

5.1.1.  Receiving BCBs

If a received bundle contains a BCB, the receiving node
acceptor for any of the security operations in the BCB. If so, the node
operations and remove any operation-speciﬁc information from the BCB prior to delivering data

 determine whether it is the security

 process those

MUST

MUST

Birrane, III & McKeever

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9172

Bundle Protocol Security (BPSec)

January 2022

to an application at the node or forwarding the bundle. If processing a security operation fails,
the target
the failure
BCB, the BCB

 be processed according to the security policy. A bundle status report indicating
 be generated. When all security operations for a BCB have been removed from the

 be removed from the bundle.

SHALL

MUST

MAY

If the receiving node is the destination of the bundle, the node
in the bundle. If the receiving node is not the destination of the bundle, the node
BCB if directed to do so as a matter of security policy.

 decrypt any BCBs remaining
 process the
MUST

MUST

If the security policy of a node speciﬁes that a node should have applied conﬁdentiality to a
speciﬁc security target and no such BCB is present in the bundle, then the node
security target in accordance with the security policy. It is
 that the node remove
the security target from the bundle because the conﬁdentiality (and possibly the integrity) of the
security target cannot be guaranteed. If the removed security target is the payload block, the
bundle

RECOMMENDED

 be discarded.

 process this

MUST

MUST

MUST

If an encrypted payload block cannot be decrypted (i.e., the ciphertext cannot be authenticated),
then the bundle
 be discarded and processed no further. If an encrypted security target
other than the payload block cannot be decrypted, then the associated security target and all
security blocks associated with that target
MUST
)
cases, requested status reports (see
deletion.

 be discarded and processed no further. In both

 be generated to reﬂect bundle or block

[RFC9171] MAY

When a BCB is decrypted, the recovered plaintext for each security target
ciphertext in each of the security targets' block-type-speciﬁc data ﬁelds. If the plaintext is of a
diﬀerent size than the ciphertext, the framing of the CBOR byte string of this ﬁeld must be updated
to ensure this ﬁeld remains a valid CBOR byte string. The length of the recovered plaintext is
known by the decrypting security context.

 replace the

MUST

If a BCB contains multiple security operations, each operation processed by the node
 be
treated as if the security operation has been represented by a single BCB with a single security
operation for the purposes of report generation and policy processing.

MUST

5.1.2.  Receiving BIBs

If a received bundle contains a BIB, the receiving node
acceptor for any of the security operations in the BIB. If so, the node
operations and remove any operation-speciﬁc information from the BIB prior to delivering data
to an application at the node or forwarding the bundle. If processing a security operation fails,
the target
the failure
BIB, the BIB

 be processed according to the security policy. A bundle status report indicating
 be generated. When all security operations for a BIB have been removed from the

 determine whether it is the security

 be removed from the bundle.

 process those

SHALL

MUST

MUST

MUST

MAY

MUST NOT

 be processed if the security target of the BIB is also the security target of a BCB in
A BIB
the bundle. Given the order of operations mandated by this speciﬁcation, when both a BIB and a
BCB share a security target, it means that the security target must have been encrypted after it
was integrity signed; therefore, the BIB cannot be veriﬁed until the security target has been
decrypted by processing the BCB.

Birrane, III & McKeever

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9172

Bundle Protocol Security (BPSec)

January 2022

If the security policy of a node speciﬁes that a node should have applied integrity to a speciﬁc
security target and no such BIB is present in the bundle, then the node
target in accordance with the security policy. It is
security target from the bundle if the security target is not the payload or primary block. If the
security target is the payload or primary block, the bundle
occur at any node that has the ability to verify an integrity signature, not just the bundle
destination.

 be discarded. This action can

 that the node remove the

RECOMMENDED

MUST

MAY

 process this security

 attempt to
If a receiving node is not the security acceptor of a security operation in a BIB, it
verify the security operation anyway to prevent forwarding corrupt data. If the veriﬁcation fails,
the node
integrity check fails at a waypoint, it is
failure of a payload integrity check at the bundle destination. If the check passes, the node
NOT

 process the security target in accordance with local security policy. If a payload
 that it be processed in the same way as a
MUST

 remove the security operation from the BIB prior to forwarding.

RECOMMENDED

SHALL

MAY

 be
If a BIB contains multiple security operations, each operation processed by the node
treated as if the security operation has been represented by a single BIB with a single security
operation for the purposes of report generation and policy processing.

MUST

5.2.  Bundle Fragmentation and Reassembly

If it is necessary for a node to fragment a bundle payload, and security services have been
applied to that bundle, the fragmentation rules described in
deﬁned there and summarized here for completeness, only the payload block can be fragmented;
security blocks, like all extension blocks, can never be fragmented.

[RFC9171] MUST

 be followed. As

Due to the complexity of payload-block fragmentation, including the possibility of fragmenting
payload-block fragments, integrity and conﬁdentiality operations are not to be applied to a
bundle representing a fragment. Speciﬁcally, a BCB or BIB
"Bundle is a fragment" ﬂag is set in the bundle processing control ﬂags ﬁeld.

 be added to a bundle if the

MUST NOT

Security processing in the presence of payload-block fragmentation may be handled by other
mechanisms outside of the BPSec protocol or by applying BPSec blocks in coordination with an
encapsulation mechanism. A node should apply any conﬁdentiality protection prior to
performing any fragmentation.

6.  Key Management

There exists a myriad of ways to establish, communicate, and otherwise manage key information
in DTN. Certain DTN deployments might follow established protocols for key management,
whereas other DTN deployments might require new and novel approaches. BPSec assumes that
key management is handled as a separate part of network management; this speciﬁcation
neither deﬁnes nor requires a speciﬁc strategy for key management.

Birrane, III & McKeever

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9172

Bundle Protocol Security (BPSec)

January 2022

7.  Security Policy Considerations

When implementing BPSec, several policy decisions must be considered. This section describes
key policies that aﬀect the generation, forwarding, and receipt of bundles that are secured using
this speciﬁcation. No single set of policy decisions is envisioned to work for all secure DTN
deployments.

•

If a bundle is received that contains combinations of security operations that are disallowed
by this speciﬁcation, the BPA must determine how to handle the bundle: the bundle may be
discarded, the block aﬀected by the security operation may be discarded, or one security
operation may be favored over another.

•

BPAs in the network must understand what security operations they should apply to bundles.
This decision may be based on the source of the bundle, the destination of the bundle, or some
other information related to the bundle.

•

If a waypoint has been conﬁgured to add a security operation to a bundle, and the received
bundle already has the security operation applied, then the receiver must understand what to
do. The receiver may discard the bundle, discard the security target and associated BPSec
blocks, replace the security operation, or take some other action.

•

RECOMMENDED

 that security operations be applied to every block in a bundle and that

It is
the default behavior of a BPA be to use the security services deﬁned in this speciﬁcation.
Designers should only deviate from the use of security operations when the deviation can be
justiﬁed -- such as when doing so causes downstream errors when processing blocks whose
contents must be inspected or changed at one or more hops along the path.

•

BCB security contexts can alter the size of extension blocks and the payload block. Security
policy
processing (e.g., calculating storage needs and scheduling transmission times).

 consider how changes to the size of a block could negatively eﬀect bundle

SHOULD

•

Adding a BIB to a security target that has already been encrypted by a BCB is not allowed. If
this condition is likely to be encountered, there are (at least) three possible policies that could
handle this situation.
1.

At the time of encryption, a security context can be selected that computes a plaintext
integrity-protection mechanism that is included as a security context result ﬁeld.

2.

The encrypted block may be replicated as a new block with a new block number and may
be given integrity protection.

3.

An encapsulation scheme may be applied to encapsulate the security target (or the entire
bundle) such that the encapsulating structure is, itself, no longer the security target of a
BCB and may therefore be the security target of a BIB.

•

SHOULD

 address whether cipher suites whose ciphertext is larger than the

Security policy
initial plaintext are permitted and, if so, for what types of blocks. Changing the size of a block
may cause processing diﬃculties for networks that calculate block oﬀsets into bundles or
predict transmission times or storage availability as a function of bundle size. In other cases,
changing the size of a payload as part of encryption has no signiﬁcant impact.

Birrane, III & McKeever

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9172

Bundle Protocol Security (BPSec)

January 2022

7.1.  Security Reason Codes

BPAs must process blocks and bundles in accordance with both BP policy and BPSec policy. The
decision to receive, forward, deliver, or delete a bundle may be communicated to the report-to
address of the bundle in the form of a status report, as a method of tracking the progress of the
bundle through the network. The status report for a bundle may be augmented with a "reason
code" explaining why the particular action was taken on the bundle.

This section describes a set of reason codes associated with the security processing of a bundle.
The communication of security-related status reports might reduce the security of a network if
these reports are intercepted by unintended recipients. BPSec policy
conditions in which sending security reason codes are appropriate. Examples of appropriate
conditions for the use of security reason codes could include the following.

 specify the

SHOULD

•

When the report-to address is veriﬁed as unchanged from the bundle source. This can occur
by placing an appropriate BIB on the bundle primary block.

•

When the block containing a status report with a security reason code is encrypted by a BCB.

•

When a status report containing a security reason code is only sent for security issues
relating to bundles and/or blocks associated with non-operational user data or test data.

•

When a status report containing a security reason code is only sent for security issues
associated with non-operational security contexts, or security contexts using non-
operational conﬁgurations, such as test keys.

Security reason codes are assigned in accordance with Section 11.2 and are as described below.

Missing security operation:

This reason code indicates that a bundle was missing one or more required security
operations. This reason code is typically used by a security veriﬁer or security acceptor.

Unknown security operation:

This reason code indicates that one or more security operations present in a bundle cannot
be understood by the security veriﬁer or security acceptor for the operation. For example,
this reason code may be used if a security block references an unknown security context
identiﬁer or security context parameter. This reason code should not be used for security
operations for which the node is not a security veriﬁer or security acceptor; there is no
requirement that all nodes in a network understand all security contexts, security context
parameters, and security services for every bundle in a network.

Unexpected security operation:

This reason code indicates that a receiving node is neither a security veriﬁer nor a security
acceptor for at least one security operation in a bundle. This reason code should not be
seen as an error condition: not every node is a security veriﬁer or security acceptor for
every security operation in every bundle. In certain networks, this reason code may be
useful in identifying misconﬁgurations of security policy.

Birrane, III & McKeever

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9172

Bundle Protocol Security (BPSec)

January 2022

Failed security operation:

This reason code indicates that one or more security operations in a bundle failed to
process as expected for reasons other than misconﬁguration. This may occur when a
security-source is unable to add a security block to a bundle. This may occur if the target of
a security operation fails to verify using the deﬁned security context at a security veriﬁer.
This may also occur if a security operation fails to be processed without error at a security
acceptor.

Conﬂicting security operation:

This reason code indicates that two or more security operations in a bundle are not
conformant with the BPSec speciﬁcation and that security processing was unable to
proceed because of a BPSec protocol violation.

8.  Security Considerations

Given the nature of DTN applications, it is expected that bundles may traverse a variety of
environments and devices that each pose unique security risks and requirements on the
implementation of security within BPSec. For this reason, it is important to introduce key threat
models and describe the roles and responsibilities of the BPSec protocol in protecting the
conﬁdentiality and integrity of the data against those threats. This section provides additional
discussion on security threats that BPSec will face and describes how BPSec security mechanisms
operate to mitigate these threats.

The threat model described here is assumed to have a set of capabilities identical to those
described by the Internet Threat Model in
[RFC3552]
illustrate threats speciﬁc to BPSec operating within DTN environments; therefore, it focuses on
on-path attackers (OPAs). In doing so, it is assumed that the delay-tolerant network (or signiﬁcant
portions of the delay-tolerant network) are completely under the control of an attacker.

, but the BPSec threat model is scoped to

8.1.  Attacker Capabilities and Objectives

BPSec was designed to protect against OPA threats that may have access to a bundle during
transit from its source, Alice, to its destination, Bob. An OPA node, Olive, is a noncooperative node
operating on the delay-tolerant network between Alice and Bob that has the ability to receive
bundles, examine bundles, modify bundles, forward bundles, and generate bundles at will in
order to compromise the conﬁdentiality or integrity of data within the delay-tolerant network.
There are three classes of OPA nodes that are diﬀerentiated based on their access to
cryptographic material:

Unprivileged Node:

Olive has not been provisioned within the secure environment and only has

access to cryptographic material that has been publicly shared.

Legitimate Node:

Olive is within the secure environment; therefore, Olive has access to

cryptographic material that has been provisioned to Olive (i.e., KM) as well as material that
has been publicly shared.

Birrane, III & McKeever

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9172

Bundle Protocol Security (BPSec)

January 2022

Privileged Node: Olive is a privileged node within the secure environment; therefore, Olive has

access to cryptographic material that has been provisioned to Olive, Alice, and/or Bob (i.e., KM,
KA, and/or KB) as well as material that has been publicly shared.

If Olive is operating as a privileged node, this is tantamount to compromise; BPSec does not
provide mechanisms to detect or remove Olive from the delay-tolerant network or BPSec secure
environment. It is up to the BPSec implementer or the underlying cryptographic mechanisms to
provide appropriate capabilities if they are needed. It should also be noted that if the
implementation of BPSec uses a single set of shared cryptographic material for all nodes, a
legitimate node is equivalent to a privileged node because KM == KA == KB. For this reason, sharing
cryptographic material in this way is not recommended.

A special case of the legitimate node is when Olive is either Alice or Bob (i.e., KM == KA or KM ==
KB). In this case, Olive is able to impersonate traﬃc as either Alice or Bob, respectively, which
means that traﬃc to and from that node can be decrypted and encrypted, respectively.
Additionally, messages may be signed as originating from one of the endpoints.

8.2.  Attacker Behaviors and BPSec Mitigations

8.2.1.  Eavesdropping Attacks

Once Olive has received a bundle, she is able to examine the contents of that bundle and attempt
to recover any protected data or cryptographic keying material from the blocks contained
within. The protection mechanism that BPSec provides against this action is the BCB, which
encrypts the contents of its security target, providing conﬁdentiality of the data. Of course, it
should be assumed that Olive is able to attempt oﬄine recovery of encrypted data, so the
cryptographic mechanisms selected to protect the data should provide a suitable level of
protection.

When evaluating the risk of eavesdropping attacks, it is important to consider the lifetime of
bundles on DTN. Depending on the network, bundles may persist for days or even years. Long-
lived bundles imply that the data exists in the network for a longer period of time and, thus, there
may be more opportunities to capture those bundles. Additionally, the implication is that long-
lived bundles store information within that remains relevant and sensitive for long enough that,
once captured, there is suﬃcient time to crack encryption associated with the bundle. If a bundle
does persist on the network for years and the cipher suite used for a BCB provides inadequate
protection, Olive may be able to recover the protected data either before that bundle reaches its
intended destination or before the information in the bundle is no longer considered sensitive.

NOTE: Olive is not limited by the bundle lifetime and may retain a given bundle indeﬁnitely.

NOTE: Irrespective of whether BPSec is used, traﬃc analysis will be possible.

Birrane, III & McKeever

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9172

Bundle Protocol Security (BPSec)

January 2022

8.2.2.  Modiﬁcation Attacks

As a node participating in the delay-tolerant network between Alice and Bob, Olive will also be
able to modify the received bundle, including non-BPSec data such as the primary block, payload
blocks, or block processing control ﬂags as deﬁned in
activities including modiﬁcation of data within the blocks, replacement of blocks, addition of
blocks, or removal of blocks. Within BPSec, both the BIB and BCB provide integrity-protection
mechanisms to detect or prevent data manipulation attempts by Olive.

. Olive will be able to undertake

[RFC9171]

The BIB provides that protection to another block that is its security target. The cryptographic
mechanisms used to generate the BIB should be strong against collision attacks, and Olive should
not have access to the cryptographic material used by the originating node to generate the BIB
(e.g., KA). If both of these conditions are true, Olive will be unable to modify the security target or
the BIB, and thus she cannot lead Bob to validate the security target as originating from Alice.

Since BPSec security operations are implemented by placing blocks in a bundle, there is no in-
band mechanism for detecting or correcting certain cases where Olive removes blocks from a
bundle. If Olive removes a BCB, but keeps the security target, the security target remains
encrypted and there is a possibility that there may no longer be suﬃcient information to decrypt
the block at its destination. If Olive removes both a BCB (or BIB) and its security target, there is no
evidence left in the bundle of the security operation. Similarly, if Olive removes the BIB, but not
the security target, there is no evidence left in the bundle of the security operation. In each of
these cases, the implementation of BPSec must be combined with policy conﬁguration at
endpoints in the network that describe the expected and required security operations that must
be applied on transmission and that are expected to be present on receipt. This or other similar
out-of-band information is required to correct for removal of security information in the bundle.

A limitation of the BIB may exist within the implementation of BIB validation at the destination
node. If Olive is a legitimate node within the delay-tolerant network, the BIB generated by Alice
with KA can be replaced with a new BIB generated with KM and forwarded to Bob. If Bob is only
validating that the BIB was generated by a legitimate user, Bob will acknowledge the message as
originating from Olive instead of Alice. Validating a BIB indicates only that the BIB was generated
by a holder of the relevant key; it does not provide any guarantee that the bundle or block was
created by the same entity. In order to provide veriﬁable integrity checks, the BCB should require
an encryption scheme that is Indistinguishable under adaptive Chosen Ciphertext Attack (IND-
CCA2) secure. Such an encryption scheme will guard against signature substitution attempts by
Olive. In this case, Alice creates a BIB with the protected data block as the security target and then
creates a BCB with both the BIB and protected data block as its security targets.

8.2.3.  Topology Attacks

If Olive is in an OPA position within the delay-tolerant network, she is able to inﬂuence how any
bundles that come to her may pass through the network. Upon receiving and processing a bundle
that must be routed elsewhere in the network, Olive has three options as to how to proceed: not
forward the bundle, forward the bundle as intended, or forward the bundle to one or more
speciﬁc nodes within the network.

Birrane, III & McKeever

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9172

Bundle Protocol Security (BPSec)

January 2022

Attacks that involve rerouting the bundles throughout the network are essentially a special case
of the modiﬁcation attacks described in this section, one where the attacker is modifying ﬁelds
within the primary block of the bundle. Given that BPSec cannot encrypt the contents of the
primary block, alternate methods must be used to prevent this situation. These methods may
include requiring BIBs for primary blocks, using encapsulation, or otherwise strategically
manipulating primary block data. The details of any such mitigation technique are speciﬁc to the
implementation of the deploying network and are outside of the scope of this document.

Furthermore, routing rules and policies may be useful in enforcing particular traﬃc ﬂows to
prevent topology attacks. While these rules and policies may utilize some features provided by
BPSec, their deﬁnition is beyond the scope of this speciﬁcation.

8.2.4.  Message Injection

Olive is also able to generate new bundles and transmit them into the delay-tolerant network at
will. These bundles may be either 1) copies or slight modiﬁcations of previously observed bundles
(i.e., a replay attack) or 2) entirely new bundles generated based on the Bundle Protocol, BPSec, or
other bundle-related protocols. With these attacks, Olive's objectives may vary, but may be
targeting either the Bundle Protocol or application-layer protocols conveyed by the Bundle
Protocol. The target could also be the storage and computing capabilities of the nodes running the
bundle or application-layer protocols (e.g., a denial of service to ﬂood on the storage of the store-
and-forward mechanism or a computation that would process the bundles and perhaps prevent
other activities).

BPSec relies on cipher suite capabilities to prevent replay or forged message attacks. A BCB used
with appropriate cryptographic mechanisms may provide replay protection under certain
circumstances. Alternatively, application data itself may be augmented to include mechanisms to
assert data uniqueness and then be protected with a BIB, a BCB, or both along with other block
data. In such a case, the receiving node would be able to validate the uniqueness of the data.

For example, a BIB may be used to validate the integrity of a bundle's primary block, which
includes a timestamp and lifetime for the bundle. If a bundle is replayed outside of its lifetime,
then the replay attack will fail as the bundle will be discarded. Similarly, additional blocks, such as
the Bundle Age, may be signed and validated to identify replay attacks. Finally, security context
parameters within BIBs and BCBs may include anti-replay mechanisms such as session
identiﬁers, nonces, and dynamic passwords as supported by network characteristics.

9.  Security Context Considerations

9.1.  Mandating Security Contexts

Because of the diversity of networking scenarios and node capabilities that may utilize BPSec,
there is a risk that a single security context mandated for every possible BPSec implementation is
not feasible. For example, a security context appropriate for a resource-constrained node with
limited connectivity may be inappropriate for use in a well-resourced, well-connected node.

Birrane, III & McKeever

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 9172

Bundle Protocol Security (BPSec)

January 2022

This does not mean that the use of BPSec in a particular network is meant to happen without
security contexts for interoperability and default behavior. Network designers must identify the
minimal set of security contexts necessary for functions in their network. For example, a default
set of security contexts could be created for use over the terrestrial Internet, and they could be
required by any BPSec implementation communicating over the terrestrial Internet.

To ensure interoperability among various implementations, all BPSec implementations
support at least the current, mandatory security context(s) deﬁned in IETF Standards Track RFCs.
As of this writing, that BP mandatory security context is speciﬁed in
mandatory security context(s) might change over time in accordance with usual IETF processes.
Such changes are likely to occur in the future if/when ﬂaws are discovered in the applicable
cryptographic algorithms, for example.

[RFC9173]

, but the

MUST

Additionally, BPSec implementations need to support the security contexts that are required by
the BP networks in which they are deployed.

If a node serves as a gateway between two or more networks, the BPSec implementation at that
node needs to support the union of security contexts mandated in those networks.

BPSec has been designed to allow for a diversity of security contexts and for new contexts to be
deﬁned over time. The use of diﬀerent security contexts does not change the BPSec protocol itself,
and the deﬁnition of new security contexts
presented in this section and generally in this speciﬁcation.

 adhere to the requirements of such contexts as

MUST

Implementers should monitor the state of security context speciﬁcations to check for future
updates and replacement.

9.2.  Identiﬁcation and Conﬁguration

Security blocks uniquely identify the security context to be used in the processing of their security
services. The security context for a security block
parameters for customization.

 be uniquely identiﬁable and

MUST

MAY

 use

To reduce the number of security contexts used in a network, security context designers should
make security contexts customizable through the deﬁnition of security context parameters. For
example, a single security context could be associated with a single cipher suite and security
context parameters could be used to conﬁgure the use of this security context with diﬀerent key
lengths and diﬀerent key management options without needing to deﬁne separate security
contexts for each possible option.

A single security context may be used in the application of more than one security service. This
means that a security context identiﬁer
BPSec-compliant security block. The deﬁnition of a security context
 identify which security
services may be used with the security context, how security context parameters are interpreted
as a function of the security operation being supported, and which security results are produced
for each security service.

 be used with a BIB, with a BCB, or with any other

MUST

MAY

Birrane, III & McKeever

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 9172

Bundle Protocol Security (BPSec)

January 2022

Network operators must determine the number, type, and conﬁguration of security contexts in a
system. Networks with rapidly changing conﬁgurations may deﬁne relatively few security
contexts with each context customized with multiple parameters. For networks with more
stability, or an increased need for conﬁdentiality, a larger number of contexts can be deﬁned with
each context supporting few, if any, parameters.

Context
Type

Key
Exchange
AES

Pre-Shared
Key AES

Out-of-Band
AES

Parameters

Deﬁnition

Encrypted
Key, IV

AES-GCM-256 cipher suite with provided ephemeral key
encrypted with a predetermined key encryption key and
cleartext initialization vector.

IV

AES-GCM-256 cipher suite with predetermined key and
predetermined key-rotation policy.

None

AES-GCM-256 cipher suite with all info predetermined.

Table 1: Security Context Examples

9.3.  Authorship

Developers or implementers should consider the diverse performance and conditions of
networks on which the Bundle Protocol (and, therefore, BPSec) will operate. Speciﬁcally, the delay
and capacity of DTNs can vary substantially. Developers should consider these conditions to
better describe the conditions in which those contexts will operate or exhibit vulnerability, and
selection of these contexts for implementation should be made with consideration for this reality.
There are key diﬀerences that may limit the opportunity for a security context to leverage
existing cipher suites and technologies that have been developed for use in more reliable
networks:

Data Lifetime:

Depending on the application environment, bundles may persist on the network
for extended periods of time, perhaps even years. Cryptographic algorithms should be selected
to ensure protection of data against attacks for a length of time reasonable for the
application.

One-Way Traﬃc:

Depending on the application environment, it is possible that only a one-way

connection may exist between two endpoints, or if a two-way connection does exist, the
round-trip time may be extremely large. This may limit the utility of session key generation
mechanisms, such as Diﬃe-Hellman, as a two-way handshake may not be feasible or reliable.

Opportunistic Access:

Depending on the application environment, a given endpoint may not be

guaranteed to be accessible within a certain amount of time. This may make asymmetric
cryptographic architectures that rely on a key distribution center or other trust center
impractical under certain conditions.

Birrane, III & McKeever

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 9172

Bundle Protocol Security (BPSec)

January 2022

When developing security contexts for use with BPSec, the following information
considered for inclusion in these speciﬁcations.

SHOULD

 be

Security Context Parameters:

Security contexts
of those parameters, and their CBOR encoding.

MUST

 deﬁne their parameter Ids, the data types

Security Results:

Security contexts
results, and their CBOR encoding.

MUST

 deﬁne their security result Ids, the data types of those

New Canonicalizations:

Security contexts may deﬁne new canonicalization algorithms as

necessary.

Ciphertext Size:

Security contexts

MUST

 state whether their associated cipher suites generate

ciphertext (to include any authentication information) that is of a diﬀerent size than the input
plaintext.

If a security context does not wish to alter the size of the plaintext, it should place overﬂow
bytes and authentication tags in security result ﬁelds.

Block Header Information:

Security contexts

SHOULD

 include block header information that is

 include the block type code,
considered to be immutable for the block. This information
block number, CRC type, and CRC ﬁeld (if present or if missing and unlikely to be added later),
and possibly certain block processing control ﬂags. Designers should input these ﬁelds as
additional data for integrity protection when these ﬁelds are expected to remain unchanged
over the path the block will take from the security source to the security acceptor. Security
contexts considering block header information
ﬁelds fail their integrity veriﬁcation.

 describe expected behavior when these

MUST

MAY

Handling CRC Fields:

Security contexts may include algorithms that alter the contexts of their

security target block, such as the case when encrypting the block-type-speciﬁc data of a target
block as part of a BCB conﬁdentiality service. Security context speciﬁcations
 address
how preexisting CRC type and CRC value ﬁelds be handled. For example, a BCB security context
could remove the plaintext CRC value from its target upon encryption and replace or
recalculate the value upon decryption.

SHOULD

10.  Deﬁning Other Security Blocks

Other Security Blocks (OSBs) may be deﬁned and used in addition to the security blocks identiﬁed
in this speciﬁcation. BIB, BCB, and any future OSBs can coexist within a bundle and can be
considered in conformance with BPSec if all of the following requirements are met by any future
identiﬁed security blocks.

•

MUST NOT

OSBs
type codes for BIB and BCB.

 reuse any enumerations identiﬁed in this speciﬁcation, to include the block

•

An OSB deﬁnition
MUST

 also state whether the OSB can target a BIB or a BCB.

MUST

 state whether it can be the target of a BIB or a BCB. The deﬁnition

Birrane, III & McKeever

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 9172

Bundle Protocol Security (BPSec)

January 2022

•

An OSB deﬁnition
received containing BIBs, BCBs, and OSBs. This processing order
BCB processing orders identiﬁed in this speciﬁcation.

MUST

 provide a deterministic processing order in the event that a bundle is

MUST NOT

 alter the BIB and

•

MUST

 provide a canonicalization algorithm if the default algorithm for

An OSB deﬁnition
non-primary-block canonicalization cannot be used to generate a deterministic input for a
cipher suite. This requirement can be waived if the OSB is deﬁned so as to never be the
security target of a BIB or a BCB.

•

 require any behavior of a BPSec BPA that is in conﬂict with the
An OSB deﬁnition
behavior identiﬁed in this speciﬁcation. In particular, the security processing requirements
imposed by this speciﬁcation must be consistent across all BPSec BPAs in a network.

MUST NOT

•

The behavior of an OSB when dealing with fragmentation must be speciﬁed and
MUST NOT
lead to ambiguous processing states. In particular, an OSB deﬁnition should address how to
receive and process an OSB in a bundle fragment that may or may not also contain its
security target. An OSB deﬁnition should also address whether an OSB may be added to a
bundle marked as a fragment.

Additionally, policy considerations for the management, monitoring, and conﬁguration
associated with blocks

 be included in any OSB deﬁnition.

SHOULD

NOTE: The burden of showing compliance with processing rules is placed upon the speciﬁcations
deﬁning new security blocks, and the identiﬁcation of such blocks shall not, alone, require
maintenance of this speciﬁcation.

11.  IANA Considerations

This speciﬁcation includes ﬁelds that require registries managed by IANA.

11.1.  Bundle Block Types

This speciﬁcation allocates two block types from the existing "Bundle Block Types" registry
deﬁned in

[RFC6255]

.

Value

Description

Reference

11

12

Block Integrity

This document

Block Conﬁdentiality

This document

Table 2: Additional Entries for the "Bundle Block
Types" Registry

The "Bundle Block Types" registry notes whether a block type is meant for use in BP version 6, BP
version 7 (BPv7), or both. The two block types deﬁned in this speciﬁcation are meant for use with
BPv7.

Birrane, III & McKeever

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 9172

Bundle Protocol Security (BPSec)

January 2022

11.2.  Bundle Status Report Reason Codes

This speciﬁcation allocates ﬁve reason codes from the existing "Bundle Status Report Reason
Codes" registry deﬁned in

[RFC6255]

.

BP Version

Value

Description

Reference

7

7

7

7

7

12

13

14

15

16

Missing security operation

This document, Section 7.1

Unknown security operation

This document, Section 7.1

Unexpected security operation

This document, Section 7.1

Failed security operation

This document, Section 7.1

Conﬂicting security operation

This document, Section 7.1

Table 3: Additional Entries for the "Bundle Status Report Reason Codes" Registry

11.3.  Security Context Identiﬁers

BPSec has a Security Context Identiﬁer ﬁeld for which IANA has created a new registry named
"BPSec Security Context Identiﬁers". Initial values for this registry are given below.

The registration policy for this registry is Speciﬁcation Required (see

[RFC8126]

).

The value range: signed 16-bit integer.

Value Description

Reference

< 0

Reserved

This document

0

Reserved

This document

Table 4: "BPSec Security Context Identiﬁer"
Registry

Negative security context identiﬁers are reserved for local/site-speciﬁc uses. The use of 0 as a
security context identiﬁer is for nonoperational testing purposes only.

12.  References

12.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
,
rfc2119>
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

Birrane, III & McKeever

Standards Track

Page 33

RFC 9172

Bundle Protocol Security (BPSec)

January 2022

[RFC3552]

[RFC6255]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8949]

[RFC9171]

[RFC9173]

Rescorla, E.
B. Korver "Guidelines for Writing RFC Text on Security
 and
Considerations" BCP 72 RFC 3552 DOI 10.17487/RFC3552
,
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3552>
.

, July 2003,

,

,

<https://

Blanchet, M. "Delay-Tolerant Networking Bundle Protocol IANA Registries" RFC
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6255>
6255 DOI 10.17487/RFC6255
.

, May 2011,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
,
.
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

Bormann, C.
,
STD 94 RFC 8949 DOI 10.17487/RFC8949
.
editor.org/info/rfc8949>

 and
,
P. Hoﬀman "Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR)"
,
, December 2020,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Burleigh, S. Fall, K.
10.17487/RFC9171

,

, and

E. Birrane, III "Bundle Protocol Version 7" RFC 9171 DOI
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9171>

,

,

,

, January 2022,

,

Birrane, III, E. White, A.
Protocol Security (BPSec)" RFC 9173 DOI 10.17487/RFC9173
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9173>

, and
,

,

,

S. Heiner "Default Security Contexts for Bundle

, January 2022,

12.2.  Informative References

[RFC4838]

[RFC6257]

[RFC8126]

,

Cerf, V. Burleigh, S. Hooke, A. Torgerson, L. Durst, R. Scott, K. Fall, K.
Weiss "Delay-Tolerant Networking Architecture" RFC 4838 DOI 10.17487/
RFC4838

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4838>

, April 2007,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

, and

H.

,
Symington, S. Farrell, S. Weiss, H.
,
Speciﬁcation" RFC 6257 DOI 10.17487/RFC6257
.
editor.org/info/rfc6257>

, and

,
,

,
, May 2011,

P. Lovell "Bundle Security Protocol

<https://www.rfc-

,
Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

, June

Acknowledgments

The following participants contributed technical material, use cases, and useful thoughts on the
overall approach to this security speciﬁcation:
Amy Alford
of the Laboratory for Telecommunications Sciences,
Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory (JHU/APL), and

Angela Hennessy
 of the Johns
 of AMD Research.

 and
Angela Dalton

 of the IPNGROUP,

Cherita Corbett

Scott Burleigh

Additionally,
resulted in a stronger and more precise speciﬁcation.

Benjamin Kaduk

 of Akamai Technologies provided a detailed technical review that

Birrane, III & McKeever

Standards Track

Page 34

RFC 9172

Bundle Protocol Security (BPSec)

January 2022

Authors' Addresses

Edward J. Birrane, III
The Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory
11100 Johns Hopkins Rd.
Laurel MD 20723
United States of America
Phone:
Email:

 +1 443 778 7423
 Edward.Birrane@jhuapl.edu

,

Kenneth McKeever
The Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory
11100 Johns Hopkins Rd.
Laurel MD 20723
United States of America
Phone:
Email:

 +1 443 778 2237
 Ken.McKeever@jhuapl.edu

,

Birrane, III & McKeever

Standards Track

Page 35

