Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9892
Standards Track
January 2026
2070-1721

B. Cheng
MIT Lincoln Laboratory

D. Wiggins

L. Berger
LabN Consulting, L.L.C.

D. Fedyk, Ed.
LabN Consulting, L.L.C.

RFC 9892
Dynamic Link Exchange Protocol (DLEP) Traffic
Classification Data Item

Abstract

This document defines a new Data Item for the Dynamic Link Exchange Protocol (DLEP) to
support traffic classification. Traffic classification information identifies traffic flows based on
frame/packet content such as a destination address. The Data Item is defined in an extensible
and reusable fashion. Its use will be mandated in other documents defining specific DLEP
extensions. This document also introduces DLEP Sub-Data Items and defines two new Sub-Data
Items to support Diffserv and Ethernet traffic classification.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9892
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2026 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9892

DLEP Traffic Classification

January 2026

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Key Words

2.  Traffic Classification

2.1.  Traffic Classification Data Item

2.1.1.  Traffic Classification Sub-Data Item

2.2.  Diffserv Traffic Classification Sub-Data Item

2.2.1.  Router Receive Processing

2.3.  Ethernet Traffic Classification Sub-Data Item

2.3.1.  Router Receive Processing

3.  Compatibility

4.  Security Considerations

5.  IANA Considerations

5.1.  Data Item Type Values

5.2.  Traffic Classification Sub-Data Item Type Values

5.3.  Registration Guidance

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

6.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

2

3

3

4

5

6

7

7

9

9

10

10

10

10

11

12

12

12

13

13

The Dynamic Link Exchange Protocol (DLEP) is defined in
. This protocol provides the
exchange of link-related control information between DLEP peers. DLEP peers are comprised of
a modem and a router. DLEP defines a base set of mechanisms as well as support for possible

[RFC8175]

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9892

DLEP Traffic Classification

January 2026

extensions. DLEP defines Data Items, which are sets of information that can be reused in DLEP
messaging. The DLEP specification does not include any flow identification beyond DLEP
endpoints, i.e., flows are identified based on their DLEP endpoint.

This document defines DLEP Data Item formats that provide flow identification on a more
granular basis. Specifically, it enables a router to use traffic flow classification information
provided by the modem to identify traffic flows based on a combination of information found in
a data plane header. (For general background on traffic classification, see
[RFC2475]
information with applications such as credit window flow control as specified in
[RFC9893]
control.

.) The Data Item is structured to allow for the use of the defined traffic classification

 provides an example of combining traffic classification and credit window flow

Section 2.3 of

[RFC9893]

.

[RFC2475]

 or IEEE 802.1Q Ethernet Priority
. The defined mechanism allows for flows to be described in a

This document defines traffic classification based on a DLEP destination and flows identified by
either Differentiated Services Code Points (DSCPs)
[IEEE8021Q]
Code Points (PCPs)
flexible fashion and, when combined with applications such as credit window flow control,
allows credit windows to be (1) shared across traffic sent to multiple DLEP destinations and as
part of multiple flows or (2) used exclusively for traffic sent to a particular destination and/or
belonging to a particular flow. The extension also supports the "wildcard" matching of any flow
(DSCP or PCP). Traffic classification information is provided such that it can be readily extended
to support other traffic classification techniques or can be used by extensions that are not
related to credit windows, such as the extension defined in

 or even 5-tuple IP flows.

[RFC8651]

This document defines support for traffic classification using a single new Data Item (see Section
2.1) for general support and defines two new Sub-Data Items to support identification of flows
based on DSCPs and PCPs (see Sections 2.2 and 2.3).

1.1.  Key Words

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Traffic Classification

The Traffic Classification Data Item represents a list of flows that may be used at the same time
to provide different service classes for traffic sent from a router to a modem. The data plane
information used to identify each flow is represented in a separate Sub-Data Item. The Data Item
and Sub-Data Item structures are intended to be independent of any specific usage of the flow
identification, e.g., flow control. The Sub-Data Item structure is also intended to allow for future
traffic classification types, e.g., 5-tuple flows. While the structure of the Data Items is extensible,
actual flow information is expected to be used in an extension-dependent manner. Support for
DSCP and PCP-based flows is defined via individual Sub-Data Items; see below. Other types of

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9892

DLEP Traffic Classification

January 2026

flow identification, e.g., based on IP transport-layer protocol and ports, may be defined in the
future via new Sub-Data Items. Note that when extensions supporting multiple Sub-Data Item
types are negotiated, these types

 be combined in a single Data Item.

MAY

Each list of flows is identified using a "Traffic Classification Identifier" or "TID" and is expected to
represent a valid combination of data plane identifiers that may be used at the same time. Each
flow is identified via a "Flow Identifier" or "FID". Each FID is defined in a Sub-Data Item that
carries the data plane identifier or identifiers used to associate traffic with the flow. A DLEP
destination address is also needed to complete traffic classification information used in
extensions such as flow control. This information is expected to be provided in an extension-
specific manner. For example, this address can be provided by a modem when it identifies the
traffic classification set in a Destination Up Message using the Credit Window Association Data
Item defined in

. TID and FID values have modem-local scope.

[RFC9893]

2.1.  Traffic Classification Data Item

This section defines the Traffic Classification Data Item. This Data Item is used by a modem to
provide a router with traffic classification information. When an extension requires the use of
any Data Item, the Data Items, including this Traffic Classification Data Item,
included by a modem in any Session Initialization Response Message (e.g., see
Updates to previously provided traffic classifications or new traffic classifications
a modem by including the Data Item in Session Update Messages. More than one Data Item
be included in a message to provide information on multiple traffic classifiers.

 be
[RFC9893]
MAY

SHOULD

).

MAY

 be sent by

The set of traffic classification information provided in the Data Item is identified using a TID.
The actual information related to data planes that is used in traffic classification is provided in a
variable list of Traffic Classification Sub-Data Items.

The format of the Traffic Classification Data Item is as follows:

     0                   1                   2                   3
     0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    | Data Item Type                | Length                        |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |Traffic Class. Identifier (TID)|   Num SDIs    |   Reserved    |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    ~           Traffic Classification Sub-Data Item 1              ~
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    ~                              ...                              ~
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    ~           Traffic Classification Sub-Data Item n              ~
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Data Item Type:

29

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9892

DLEP Traffic Classification

January 2026

Length:

Variable

Section 11.3 of [RFC8175]

, Length is the number of octets in the Data Item, excluding the

Per
Data Item Type and Length fields. The length here is limited by the packet data unit (PDU)
length supported. For example, if the packet is limited to 1400 bytes, then the length
MUST
NOT
smaller than or equal to the maximum PDU. Multiple messages can be used if there is more
data than will fit in a single TLV.

 exceed this value. If larger packets are supported, the maximum

 be adjusted to be

MUST

Traffic Classification Identifier (TID):

A 16-bit unsigned integer identifying a traffic classification set. There is no restriction on
values used by a modem, and there is no requirement for sequential or ordered values.

Num SDIs:

An 8-bit unsigned integer indicating the number of Traffic Classification Sub-Data Items
included in the Data Item. A value of zero (0) is allowed and indicates that no traffic should
be matched against this TID.

Reserved:

For the Traffic Classification Data Item, this reserved field is currently unused. It
to all zeros for this version of the Data Item and is currently ignored on reception. This allows
for future extensions of the Data Item if needed.

 be set

MUST

Traffic Classification Sub-Data Item:

Zero or more Traffic Classification Sub-Data Items of the format defined in Section 2.1.1
be included. The number

 match the value carried in the Num SDIs field.

MUST

MAY

A router receiving the Traffic Classification Data Item
information that is associated with the TID indicated in each received Data Item. If no associated
traffic classification information is found, the router
 initialize a new information set using
the values carried in the Data Item. If the associated traffic classification information is found,
the router
MUST
Item. In both cases, a router
is associated with the TID is updated as needed.

 replace the corresponding information using the values carried in the Data

 also ensure that any data plane state (e.g., see

 locate the traffic classification

[RFC9893]

) that

MUST

MUST

MUST

2.1.1.  Traffic Classification Sub-Data Item

All Traffic Classification Sub-Data Items share a common format that is patterned after the
standard DLEP Data Item format. See
. There is no requirement on, or
meaning to, Sub-Data Item ordering. Any errors or inconsistencies encountered in parsing Sub-
Data Items are handled in the same fashion as any other Data Item parsing error encountered in
DLEP. See

Section 11.3 of [RFC8175]

[RFC8175]
.

The format of the Traffic Classification Sub-Data Item is as follows:

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9892

DLEP Traffic Classification

January 2026

     0                   1                   2                   3
     0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    | Sub-Data Item Type            | Length                        |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    ~                           Value...                            ~
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Sub-Data Item Type:

A 16-bit unsigned integer that indicates the type and corresponding format of the Sub-Data
Item's Value field. Sub-Data Item Types are scoped within the Data Item in which they are
carried, i.e., the Sub-Data Item Type field
MUST
Data Item Type to identify the format of the Sub-Data Item. Traffic Classification Sub-Data
Item Types are managed according to the IANA registry described in Section 5.2.

 be used together with the Traffic Classification

Length:

Variable

Section 11.3 of [RFC8175]

Per
, Length is a 16-bit unsigned integer that is the number of octets
in the Sub-Data Item, excluding the Data Item Type and Length fields. Each Sub-Data Item has
its own Length field.

Value:

A field of <Length> octets that contains data specific to a particular Data Item.

2.2.  Diffserv Traffic Classification Sub-Data Item

The Diffserv Traffic Classification Sub-Data Item identifies the set of DSCPs that should be treated
as a single flow, i.e., receive the same traffic treatment. DSCPs are identified in a list of Diffserv
fields. An implementation that does not support DSCPs and wants the same traffic treatment for
all traffic to a destination or destinations would indicate 0 DSCPs.

The format of the Diffserv Traffic Classification Sub-Data Item is as follows:

     0                   1                   2                   3
     0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    | Sub-Data Item Type (1)        |  Length                       |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    | Flow Identifier (FID)         |   Num DSCPs   |   DS Field 1  |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |   DS Field 2  |      ...      |   DS Field n  |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Sub-Data Item Type:

Sub-Data Item Type with value one (1) identifies the Diffserv Traffic Classification Sub-Data
Item Type in the format defined in Section 2.1.1.

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9892

DLEP Traffic Classification

January 2026

Length:

Variable

Length is defined above. For this Sub-Data Item, it is equal to three (3) octets plus the value of
the Num DSCPs field. This means that the maximum Length value is 3 + 64 or 67 octets. The
definition can be in multiple Sub-Data Items that are much smaller than this.

Flow Identifier (FID):

A 16-bit unsigned integer representing the data plane information carried in the Sub-Data
Item that is to be used in identifying a flow. The value 0xFFFF is reserved and
used in this field.

MUST NOT

 be

Num DSCPs:

An 8-bit unsigned integer indicating the number of DSCPs carried in the Sub-Data Item. A zero
(0) indicates a (wildcard) match against any DSCP value that does not have an explicit match
to a FID. A typical use of this is mapping any DSCPs that are not explicitly mapped to a default
queue.

DS Field:

Each DS Field is 8 bits long and carries the DSCP field as defined in

[RFC2474]
.

            0   1   2   3   4   5   6   7
          +---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
          |         DSCP          |  MBZ  |
          +---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+

DSCP:
MBZ:

Differentiated Services Code Point
Must Be Zero - set to zero when transmitted

[RFC2474]

2.2.1.  Router Receive Processing

A router receiving the Traffic Classification Sub-Data Item
receipt, prior to using the carried information, including potentially updating the data behavior
as determined by the extension requiring the use of the Sub-Data Item. Validation failures
MUST
be treated as an error as described in Section 2.1.1.

 validate the information on

MUST

MUST

 ensure that each DS Field value is listed only once across the

Once validated, the receiver
whole Traffic Classification Data Item. Note that this check is across the Data Item and not the
individual Sub-Data Items. If the same DS Field value is listed more than once within the same
Traffic Classification Data Item, the Data Item
2.1.1.

 be treated as an error as described in Section

MUST

2.3.  Ethernet Traffic Classification Sub-Data Item

The Ethernet Traffic Classification Sub-Data Item identifies the VLAN and PCPs that should be
treated as a single flow, i.e., receive the same traffic treatment. Ethernet PCP support is defined
as part of the IEEE 802.1Q tag format
format also includes a 12-bit "VLAN Identifier (VID)" field. PCPs are identified in a list of Priority

 and includes a 3-bit "PCP" field. The tag

[IEEE8021Q]

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9892

DLEP Traffic Classification

January 2026

Fields. An implementation that does not support PCPs and wants the same traffic treatment for
all traffic to a destination or destinations would indicate 0 PCPs. Such an implementation could
identify a VLAN to use per destination.

The format of the Ethernet Traffic Classification Sub-Data Item is as follows:

     0                   1                   2                   3
     0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    | Sub-Data Item Type (2)        | Length                        |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    | Flow Identifier (FID)         |NumPCPs| VLAN Identifier (VID) |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    | Pri. 1| Pri. 2| ..... | ..... | ..... |  Pad  |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Sub-Data Item Type:

Sub-Data Item Type with value two (2) identifies the Ethernet Traffic Classification Sub-Data
Item Type in the format defined in Section 2.1.1.

Length:

Variable

Length is defined above. For this Sub-Data Item, it is equal to four (4) plus the number of
octets needed to accommodate the number of Priority Fields indicated by the NumPCPs field.
Note that as the length is in octets and each Priority Field is 4 bits, the total length of this Sub-
Data Item is the 2 octets of Flow Identifier, plus the 2 octets for NumPCPs and VLAN Identifier
plus the number of octets for PCPs. The number of octets for the PCPs is computed by
rounding up NumPCPs to the nearest even value and dividing by 2. This TLV has maximum
length of 4 plus 8 divided by 2 or 8 octets.

Flow Identifier (FID):

A 16-bit unsigned integer representing the data plane information carried in the Sub-Data
Item that is to be used in identifying a flow. The value 0xFFFF is reserved and
used in this field.

MUST NOT

 be

NumPCPs:

A 4-bit unsigned integer indicating the number of Priority Fields carried in the Sub-Data
Item. A zero (0) indicates a (wildcard) match against any PCP value that does not have an
explicit match to a FID. A typical use of a wildcard is mapping any PCPs that are not explicitly
mapped to a default queue. The maximum number of PCPs is 8.

VLAN Identifier (VID):

A 12-bit unsigned integer field indicating the VLAN to be used in traffic classification. VID
value zero (0x000) is used to indicate that the VID is to be ignored. VID 0xFFF is reserved. Any
other VID value from 0x001 through 0xFFE can be used in traffic classification. Any explicitly
mapped VLANs are matched first. Any VLANs that do not have a mapping will then map to
this default mapping.

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9892

DLEP Traffic Classification

January 2026

Priority:

Each Priority Field is 4 bits long and indicates a PCP field as defined in
zero (0) is a valid value for PCP.

[IEEE8021Q]

. Note that

          0   1   2   3
        +---+---+---+---+
        |    PCP    |MBZ|
        +---+---+---+---+

PCP:
MBZ:

Priority Code Point
Must Be Zero - set to zero when transmitted

[IEEE8021Q]

Pad:

A field that is 4 bits long and is included when NumPCPs is an odd number. This field
be set to zero by the sender and

 be ignored on receipt.

MUST

MUST

2.3.1.  Router Receive Processing

A router receiving the Traffic Classification Sub-Data Item
receipt, prior to using the carried information, including potentially updating the data behavior
as determined by the extension requiring the use of the Sub-Data Item. Note that validation can
include usage-specific semantics such as those found in
 be treated
as an error as described in Section 2.1.1.

 validate the information on

. Any failures

[RFC9893]

MUST

MUST

After successful validation, the receiver
once across the whole Traffic Classification Data Item. Note that this check is across the Data
Item and not the individual Sub-Data Items. If the same Priority Field value is listed more than
once within the same Traffic Classification Data Item, the Data Item
as described in Section 2.1.1.

 ensure that each Priority Field value is listed only

 be treated as an error

MUST

MUST

In cases where both Traffic Classification Sub-Data Item Types are defined, matching on
Ethernet information takes precedence. More specifically, when a packet matches both a DSCP
indicated in a Diffserv Traffic Classification Sub-Data Item (Section 2.2) and a VID/PCP identified
in an Ethernet Traffic Classification Sub-Data Item (Section 2.3), the TID associated with the
matching VLAN/PCP

 be used.

MUST

3.  Compatibility

The formats defined in this document will only be used when extensions require their use.

The DLEP specification
Items, including those defined in this document.

[RFC8175]

 defines the handling of unexpected appearances of any Data

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9892

DLEP Traffic Classification

January 2026

4.  Security Considerations

This document introduces finer-grained flow identification mechanisms for DLEP. These
mechanisms expose vulnerabilities similar to existing DLEP messages. An example of a threat to
which traffic classification might be susceptible is where a malicious actor masquerading as a
DLEP peer could inject an alternate Traffic Classification Data Item, changing the mapping of
traffic to queues; this would in turn cause delay, congestion, or loss in one or more service
classes. Other possible threats are discussed in the Security Considerations section of
and are also applicable, but not specific, to traffic classification.

[RFC8175]

,

[BCP195] [IEEE-802.1AE]

, along with the latest
The transport-layer security mechanisms documented in
versions of
 at the time of this writing, can be
applied to this document. Implementations following the "networked deployment" model
described in Section
additional details. The Layer 2 security mechanisms documented in
some updates, be applied to the mechanisms defined in this document. Examples of technologies
that can be deployed to secure the Layer 2 link include

[BCP195]
 can also, with

4 ("Implementation Scenarios")

[RFC8175] SHOULD

[IEEE-802.1AE]

[IEEE-802.1X]
.

[IEEE-802.1X]

[RFC8175]

[RFC8175]

 refer to

, and

 and

 for

 of

5.  IANA Considerations

5.1.  Data Item Type Values

IANA has assigned the following value from the "Specification Required" range
DLEP "Data Item Type Values" registry:

[RFC8126]

 in the

Type Code

Description

29

Traffic Classification

Table 1: New Data Item Type Value

5.2.  Traffic Classification Sub-Data Item Type Values

IANA has created a new DLEP registry named "Traffic Classification Sub-Data Item Type Values".

Table 2 shows the registration policies

[RFC8126]

 for the registry:

Range

Registration Procedures

1-65407

Specification Required

65408-65534

Private Use

Table 2: Registration Policies

Table 3 shows the initial contents of the registry:

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9892

DLEP Traffic Classification

January 2026

Type Code

Description

Reserved

Reference

RFC 9892

Diffserv Traffic Classification

[RFC2474]

Ethernet Traffic Classification

[IEEE8021Q]

0

1

2

3-65407

Unassigned

65408-65534

Reserved for Private Use

RFC 9892

65535

Reserved

RFC 9892

Table 3: Initial Registry Contents

This registry encompasses packet traffic classification, where standard packet header identifiers
in packets or data frames indicate Quality of Service (QoS) treatment. It includes two specific
entries for widely recognized identifiers used in QoS management for IP and Ethernet networks.
Reserved values are set aside for similar future identifiers that may emerge to denote QoS
treatment. However, requests for new entries are not expected to be frequent.

Allocations within the registry are subject to the following requirements:

1.

Documentation of the intended use of the requested value, in compliance with the
"Specification Required" policy defined in

[RFC8126]

.

2.

Approval by the designated expert (DE) appointed by the IESG. The DE must do the following:

◦
Verify that the requested value is clearly documented and its purpose and usage are
unambiguous.
◦
Ensure that the proposed value does not conflict with existing work or ongoing efforts
within the IETF.
◦
Confirm that any specification requesting a code point has undergone review by the
MANET Working Group (or a successor mailing list designated by the IESG).
◦
Validate that external specifications requesting code points are publicly available, are
permanently archived, and do not conflict with active or published IETF work.
◦
Ensure that the review process is conducted in a timely manner, with any disputes
resolved through consultation with the appropriate working groups.

5.3.  Registration Guidance

This section provides guidance for registrations in the "Traffic Classification Sub-Data Item Type
Values" registry. To simplify future registrations in DLEP-related registries, it is recommended
that the guidance in this section apply to all registries within the "Dynamic Link Exchange
Protocol (DLEP) Parameters" registry group that use the "Specification Required" policy
[RFC8126]
. Future specifications may point to the guidance in this document.

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9892

DLEP Traffic Classification

January 2026

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8175]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

,

Ratliff, S. Jury, S. Satterwhite, D. Taylor, R.
Exchange Protocol (DLEP)" RFC 8175 DOI 10.17487/RFC8175
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8175>

B. Berry "Dynamic Link
, June 2017,

, and

,

,

,

,

.

<https://

6.2.  Informative References

[BCP195]

Best Current Practice 195,
At the time of writing, this BCP comprises the following:

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/bcp195>
.

Moriarty, K.
DOI 10.17487/RFC8996

 and

S. Farrell "Deprecating TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1" BCP 195 RFC 8996
,

,

,

,

, March 2021,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8996>

.

,

, and

Sheffer, Y. Saint-Andre, P.
,
Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)"
BCP 195 RFC 9325 DOI 10.17487/RFC9325
editor.org/info/rfc9325>

T. Fossati "Recommendations for Secure Use of

, November 2022,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

,

[IEEE-802.1AE]

[IEEE-802.1X]

[IEEE8021Q]

[RFC2474]

,

IEEE "IEEE Standard for Local and metropolitan area networks-Media Access
Control (MAC) Security" DOI 10.1109/IEEESTD.2018.8585421 IEEE Std
802.1AE-2018

<https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8585421>

, December 2018,

,

,

.

,

IEEE "802.1X-2020 - IEEE Standard for Local and Metropolitan Area Networks--
Port-Based Network Access Control" DOI 10.1109/IEEESTD.2020.9018454 IEEE
Std IEEE-802.1X-2020
9018454>
.

,
, February 2020,

<https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/

,

,

IEEE "IEEE Standard for Local and Metropolitan Area Networks--Bridges and
Bridged Networks" DOI 10.1109/IEEESTD.2022.10004498 IEEE Std 802.1Q-2022
December 2022,

<https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/10004498>

,

,

.

,

,

Nichols, K. Blake, S. Baker, F.
Services Field (DS Field) in the IPv4 and IPv6 Headers" RFC 2474 DOI 10.17487/
RFC2474

D. Black "Definition of the Differentiated
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2474>

, December 1998,

, and

,

,

,

.

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9892

DLEP Traffic Classification

January 2026

[RFC2475]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8651]

[RFC9893]

[RFC9894]

,

Blake, S. Black, D. Carlson, M. Davies, E. Wang, Z.
Architecture for Differentiated Services" RFC 2475 DOI 10.17487/RFC2475
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2475>
December 1998,

W. Weiss "An

, and
,

,
,

,

.

,

,

,

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

.

,

,

, June

Cheng, B. Wiggins, D.
,
(DLEP) Control-Plane-Based Pause Extension" RFC 8651 DOI 10.17487/RFC8651
October 2019,

L. Berger, Ed. "Dynamic Link Exchange Protocol

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8651>

, and

,
.

,

,

,

,

Cheng, B. Wiggins, D. Ratliff, S. Berger, L.
,
Exchange Protocol (DLEP) Credit-Based Flow Control Messages and Data Items"
RFC 9893 DOI 10.17487/RFC9893
, January 2026,
rfc9893>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

E. Kinzie, Ed. "Dynamic Link
,

, and

,
.

,

,

Cheng, B. Wiggins, D. Berger, L.
Exchange Protocol (DLEP) Diffserv Aware Credit Window Extension" RFC 9894
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9894>
DOI 10.17487/RFC9894
.

D. Eastlake 3rd, Ed. "Dynamic Link

, January 2026,

, and

,

,

,

Acknowledgments

Rick Taylor
The Sub-Data Item format was inspired by
proposed the separation of credit windows from traffic classification at IETF 98. This document
was derived from
 as a result of discussions at IETF 101. Many useful comments were
received from contributors to the MANET Working Group, notably
Black
.

's "Data Item Containers". He also

Ronald in 't Velt

[RFC9894]

David

 and

We had the honor of working too briefly with
contribution to the IETF and publication of the first and definitive open-source DLEP
implementation have been critical to the acceptance of DLEP. We mourn his passing on
November 26, 2023. We wish to recognize his guidance, leadership, and professional excellence.
We were fortunate to benefit from his leadership and friendship. He shall be missed.

 on this and related DLEP work. His

David Wiggins

Authors' Addresses

Bow-Nan Cheng
MIT Lincoln Laboratory
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
244 Wood Street
Lexington MA 02421-6426
United States of America
Email:
bcheng@ll.mit.edu

,

David Wiggins

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9892

DLEP Traffic Classification

January 2026

Lou Berger
LabN Consulting, L.L.C.
Email:

lberger@labn.net

editor
)

Don Fedyk (
LabN Consulting, L.L.C.
Email:
dfedyk@labn.net

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

