Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9354
Standards Track
January 2023
2070-1721
J. Hou
Huawei Technologies

B. Liu
Huawei Technologies

Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

C. Perkins
Lupin Lodge

Y-G. Hong
Daejeon University

X. Tang
SGEPRI

RFC 9354
Transmission of IPv6 Packets over Power Line
Communication (PLC) Networks

Abstract

Power Line Communication (PLC), namely using electric power lines for indoor and outdoor
communications, has been widely applied to support Advanced Metering Infrastructure (AMI),
especially smart meters for electricity. The existing electricity infrastructure facilitates the
expansion of PLC deployments due to its potential advantages in terms of cost and convenience.
Moreover, a wide variety of accessible devices raises the potential demand of IPv6 for future
applications. This document describes how IPv6 packets are transported over constrained PLC
networks, such as those described in ITU-T G.9903, IEEE 1901.1, and IEEE 1901.2.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9354
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Hou, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9354

IPv6 over PLC

January 2023

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Requirements Notation and Terminology

3.  Overview of PLC

3.1.  Protocol Stack

3.2.  Addressing Modes

3.3.  Maximum Transmission Unit

3.4.  Routing Protocol

4.  IPv6 over PLC

4.1.  Stateless Address Autoconfiguration

4.2.  IPv6 Link-Local Address

4.3.  Unicast Address Mapping

4.3.1.  Unicast Address Mapping for IEEE 1901.1

4.3.2.  Unicast Address Mapping for IEEE 1901.2 and ITU-T G.9903

4.4.  Neighbor Discovery

4.5.  Header Compression

4.6.  Fragmentation and Reassembly

5.  Internet Connectivity Scenarios and Topologies

6.  Operations and Manageability Considerations

7.  IANA Considerations

8.  Security Considerations

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Hou, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9354

IPv6 over PLC

January 2023

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

The idea of using power lines for both electricity supply and communication can be traced back
to the beginning of the last century. Using the existing power grid to transmit messages, Power
Line Communication (PLC) is a good candidate for supporting various service scenarios such as
in houses and offices, in trains and vehicles, in smart grids, and in Advanced Metering
Infrastructure (AMI)
features such as fixed position, large quantity of nodes, low data rate, and low power
consumption.

. The data-acquisition devices in these scenarios share common

[SCENA]

Although PLC technology has evolved over several decades, it has not been fully adapted for
IPv6-based constrained networks. The resource-constrained scenarios related to the Internet of
Things (IoT) lie in the low voltage PLC networks with most applications in the area of AMI,
vehicle-to-grid communications, in-home energy management, and smart street lighting. IPv6 is
important for PLC networks, due to its large address space and efficient address
autoconfiguration.

This document provides a brief overview of PLC technologies. Some of them have LLN (Low-
Power and Lossy Network) characteristics, i.e., limited power consumption, memory, and
processing resources. This document specifies the transmission of IPv6 packets over those
constrained PLC networks. The general approach is to adapt elements of the 6LoWPAN (IPv6 over
Low-Power Wireless Personal Area Network) and 6lo (IPv6 over Networks of Resource-
constrained Nodes) specifications, such as those described in
, to constrained PLC networks.
and

[RFC4944] [RFC6282] [RFC6775]
,

[RFC8505]

,

,

2.  Requirements Notation and Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

This document uses the following acronyms and terminologies:

6BBR:

6LoWPAN Backbone Router

6LBR:

6LoWPAN Border Router

6lo:

IPv6 over Networks of Resource-constrained Nodes

6LoWPAN:

IPv6 over Low-Power Wireless Personal Area Network

6LR:

6LoWPAN Router

Hou, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9354

IPv6 over PLC

January 2023

AMI:

Advanced Metering Infrastructure

BBPLC:

Broadband Power Line Communication

Coordinator:

A device capable of relaying messages

DAD:

Duplicate Address Detection

EUI:

Extended Unique Identifier

IID:

Interface Identifier

LLN:

Low-Power and Lossy Network

MTU:

Maximum Transmission Unit

NBPLC:

Narrowband Power Line Communication

PAN:

Personal Area Network

PANC:

PAN Coordinator, a coordinator that also acts as the primary controller of a PAN

PLC:

Power Line Communication

PLC device:

An entity that follows the PLC standards and implements the protocol stack

described in this document

RA:

Router Advertisement

RPL:

Routing Protocol for Low-Power and Lossy Networks

Below is a mapping table of the terminology between
9903]

, and this document.

[IEEE_1901.2] [IEEE_1901.1] [ITU-T_G.

,

,

IEEE 1901.2

IEEE 1901.1

ITU-T G.9903

This document

PAN Coordinator

Central Coordinator

PAN Coordinator

PAN Coordinator

Coordinator

Proxy Coordinator

Full-Function Device

Coordinator

Device

Station

PAN Device

PLC Device

Table 1: Terminology Mapping between PLC Standards

3.  Overview of PLC

PLC technology enables convenient two-way communications for home users and utility
companies to monitor and control electrically connected devices such as electricity meters and
street lights. PLC can also be used in smart home scenarios, such as the control of indoor lights
and switches. Due to the large range of communication frequencies, PLC is generally classified

Hou, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9354

IPv6 over PLC

January 2023

into two categories: Narrowband PLC (NBPLC) for automation of sensors (which have a low
frequency band and low power cost) and Broadband PLC (BBPLC) for home and industry
networking applications.

Various standards have been addressed on the Media Access Control (MAC) and Physical (PHY)
layers. For example, standards for BBPLC (1.8-250 MHz) include IEEE 1901 and ITU-T G.hn, and
standards for NBPLC (3-500 kHz) include ITU-T G.9902 (G.hnem), ITU-T G.9903 (G3-PLC)
9903]
, ITU-T G.9904 (PRIME), IEEE 1901.2 (a combination of G3-PLC and PRIME PLC)
[IEEE_1901.2]

, and IEEE 1901.2a (an amendment to IEEE 1901.2)

[IEEE_1901.2a]
.

[ITU-T_G.

[IEEE_1901.1]

IEEE 1901.1
than 12 MHz, was published by the IEEE standard for Smart Grid Powerline Communication
Working Group (SGPLC WG). IEEE 1901.1 balances the needs for bandwidth versus
communication range and is thus a promising option for 6lo applications.

, a PLC standard that is aimed at the medium frequency band of less

This specification is focused on IEEE 1901.1, IEEE 1901.2, and ITU-T G.9903.

3.1.  Protocol Stack

The protocol stack for IPv6 over PLC is illustrated in Figure 1. The PLC MAC and PLC PHY layers
correspond to the layers described in IEEE 1901.1, IEEE 1901.2, or ITU-T G.9903. The 6lo
adaptation layer for PLC is illustrated in Section 4. For multihop tree and mesh topologies, a
routing protocol is likely to be necessary. The routes can be built in mesh-under mode at Layer 2
or in route-over mode at Layer 3, as explained in Sections 3.4 and 4.4.

                 +----------------------------------------+
                 |           Application Layer            |
                 +----------------------------------------+
                 |            Transport Layer             |
                 +----------------------------------------+
                 |                                        |
                 |               IPv6 Layer               |
                 |                                        |
                 +----------------------------------------+
                 |   Adaptation Layer for IPv6 over PLC   |
                 +----------------------------------------+
                 |             PLC MAC Layer              |
                 +----------------------------------------+
                 |             PLC PHY Layer              |
                 +----------------------------------------+

Figure 1: PLC Protocol Stack

3.2.  Addressing Modes

Each PLC device has a globally unique long address of 48 bits
[IEEE_1901.2] [ITU-T_G.9903]
[ITU-T_G.9903]
address or the IEEE EUI-64 address. Each PLC device joins the network by using the long address

. The long address is set by the manufacturer according to the IEEE EUI-48 MAC

 and a short address of 12 bits

[IEEE_1901.1]

[IEEE_1901.1]

[IEEE_1901.2]

 or 64 bits

 or 16 bits

Hou, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9354

IPv6 over PLC

January 2023

and communicates with other devices by using the short address after joining the network. Short
addresses can be assigned during the onboarding process, by the PANC or the JRC (join registrar/
coordinator) in CoJP (Constrained Join Protocol)

[RFC9031]
.

3.3.  Maximum Transmission Unit

The Maximum Transmission Unit (MTU) of the MAC layer determines whether fragmentation
and reassembly are needed at the adaptation layer of IPv6 over PLC. IPv6 requires an MTU of
1280 octets or greater; thus, for a MAC layer with an MTU lower than this limit, fragmentation
and reassembly at the adaptation layer are required.

The IEEE 1901.1 MAC supports upper-layer packets up to 2031 octets. The IEEE 1901.2 MAC layer
supports an MTU of 1576 octets (the original value of 1280 bytes was updated in 2015
[IEEE_1901.2a]
fragmentation and reassembly, it is possible to configure a smaller MTU in a high-noise
communication environment. Thus, the 6lo functions, including header compression,
fragmentation, and reassembly, are still applicable and useful.

). Though these two technologies can support IPv6 originally without

The MTU for ITU-T G.9903 is 400 octets, which is insufficient for supporting IPv6's MTU. For this
reason, fragmentation and reassembly are required for G.9903-based networks to carry IPv6.

3.4.  Routing Protocol

Routing protocols suitable for use in PLC networks include:

•

RPL (Routing Protocol for Low-Power and Lossy Networks)
protocol. AODV-RPL
 updates RPL to include reactive, point-to-point, and
asymmetric routing. IEEE 1901.2 specifies Information Elements (IEs) with MAC layer
metrics, which can be provided to a Layer 3 routing protocol for parent selection.

[AODV-RPL]

[RFC6550]

 is a Layer 3 routing

•

IEEE 1901.1 supports the mesh-under routing scheme. Each PLC node maintains a routing
table, in which each route entry comprises the short addresses of the destination and the
related next hop. The route entries are built during the network establishment via a pair of
association request/confirmation messages. The route entries can be changed via a pair of
proxy change request/confirmation messages. These association and proxy change messages
must be approved by the central coordinator (PANC in this document).

•

LOADng (Lightweight On-demand Ad hoc Distance vector routing protocol, Next Generation)
is a reactive protocol operating at Layer 2 or Layer 3. Currently, LOADng is supported in ITU-
T G.9903
, and the IEEE 1901.2 standard refers to ITU-T G.9903 for LOAD-based
networks.

[ITU-T_G.9903]

4.  IPv6 over PLC

A PLC node distinguishes between an IPv6 PDU and a non-IPv6 PDU based on the equivalent of
an Ethertype in a Layer 2 PLC PDU.
encapsulation, and this information can be carried in the IE field in the MAC header of
[IEEE_1901.2]

 defines an Ethertype of "A0ED" for LoWPAN

, the IP packet type has been

. And regarding

[ITU-T_G.9903]

[IEEE_1901.1]

[RFC7973]

 or

Hou, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9354

IPv6 over PLC

January 2023

defined with the corresponding MAC Service Data Unit (MSDU) type value 49. And the 4-bit
Internet Protocol version number in the IP header helps to distinguish between an IPv4 PDU and
an IPv6 PDU.

6LoWPAN and 6lo standards, as described in
provide useful functionality, including link-local IPv6 addresses, stateless address
autoconfiguration, neighbor discovery, header compression, fragmentation, and reassembly.
However, due to the different characteristics of the PLC media, the 6LoWPAN adaptation layer, as
it is, cannot perfectly fulfill the requirements of PLC environments. These considerations suggest
the need for a dedicated adaptation layer for PLC, which is detailed in the following subsections.

[RFC4944] [RFC6282] [RFC6775]

[RFC8505]
,

, and

,

,

4.1.  Stateless Address Autoconfiguration

To obtain an IPv6 Interface Identifier (IID), a PLC device performs stateless address
autoconfiguration
layer address.

. The autoconfiguration can be based on either a long or short link-

[RFC4944]

The IID can be based on the device's 48-bit MAC address or its EUI-64 identifier
MAC address
octets as specified in
(Universal/Local) bit

[RFC2464]
. The IPv6 IID is derived from the 64-bit IID by inverting the U/L
[RFC4291]
.

 first be extended to a 64-bit IID by inserting 0xFFFE at the fourth and fifth

[EUI-64]

MUST

. A 48-bit

For IEEE 1901.2 and ITU-T G.9903, a 48-bit "pseudo-address" is formed by the 16-bit PAN ID, 16
zero bits, and the 16-bit short address as follows:

16_bit_PAN:0000:16_bit_short_address

Then, the 64-bit IID

MUST

 be derived by inserting the 16-bit 0xFFFE into as follows:

16_bit_PAN:00FF:FE00:16_bit_short_address

For the 12-bit short addresses used by IEEE 1901.1, the 48-bit pseudo-address is formed by a 24-
bit NID (Network Identifier, YYYYYY), 12 zero bits, and a 12-bit TEI (Terminal Equipment
Identifier, XXX) as follows:

YYYY:YY00:0XXX

The 64-bit IID
follows:

MUST

 be derived by inserting the 16-bit 0xFFFE into this 48-bit pseudo-address as

YYYY:YYFF:FE00:0XXX

[RFC7136]

, aside from the method discussed in

As investigated in
, other IID-generation
methods defined by the IETF do not imply any additional semantics for the Universal/Local (U/L)
bit (bit 6) and the Individual/Group bit (bit 7). Therefore, these two bits are not reliable
indicators. Thus, when using an IID derived by a short address, the operators of the PLC network
can choose whether or not to comply with the original meaning of these two bits. If they choose
to comply with the original meaning, these two bits
derived from the short address is not global. In order to avoid any ambiguity in the derived IID,

 both be set to zero, since the IID

[RFC4291]

MUST

Hou, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9354

IPv6 over PLC

January 2023

MUST NOT

 be a valid part of the PAN ID (for IEEE 1901.2 and ITU-T G.9903) or NID
these two bits
(for IEEE 1901.1). For example, the PAN ID or NID must always be chosen so that the two bits are
zeros or the high six bits in PAN ID or NID are left shifted by two bits. If they choose not to
comply with the original meaning, the operator must be aware that these two bits are not
reliable indicators, and the IID cannot be transformed back into a short link-layer address via a
reverse operation of the mechanism presented above. However, the short address can still be
obtained via the Unicast Address Mapping mechanism described in Section 4.3.

 only be used for link-local address configuration. A PLC host

For privacy reasons, the IID derived from the MAC address (with padding and bit clamping)
SHOULD
from the short link-layer address to configure IPv6 addresses used for communication with the
public network; otherwise, the host's MAC address is exposed. As per
addresses are used on PLC links, a shared secret key or version number from the Authoritative
Border Router Option
 can be used to improve the entropy of the hash input. Thus, the
generated IID can be spread out to the full range of the IID address space while stateless address
compression is still allowed. By default, the hash algorithm
number, the PAN ID or NID, and the short address as the input arguments, and the 256-bit hash
output is truncated into the IID by taking the high 64 bits.

 be SHA256, using the version

 use the IID derived

, when short

[RFC8065]

[RFC6775]

SHOULD

SHOULD

4.2.  IPv6 Link-Local Address

The IPv6 link-local address
defined above, to the prefix FE80::/64 (see Figure 2).

[RFC4291]

 for a PLC interface is formed by appending the IID, as

    10 bits           54 bits                   64 bits
  +----------+-----------------------+----------------------------+
  |1111111010|        (zeros)        |    Interface Identifier    |
  +----------+-----------------------+----------------------------+

Figure 2: IPv6 Link-Local Address for a PLC Interface

4.3.  Unicast Address Mapping

The address-resolution procedure for mapping IPv6 unicast addresses into PLC link-layer
addresses follows the general description in
procedure by eliminating usage of multicast NS (Neighbor Solicitation). The resolution is realized
by the NCEs (neighbor cache entries) created during the address registration at the routers.
[RFC8505]
IPv6 subnet and by inserting a link-local address registration to better serve proxy registration of
new devices.

 further improves the registration procedure by enabling multiple LLNs to form an

Section 7.2 of [RFC4861] [RFC6775]

 improves this

.

4.3.1.  Unicast Address Mapping for IEEE 1901.1

The Source Link-Layer Address and Target Link-Layer Address options for IEEE_1901.1 used in
the NS and Neighbor Advertisement (NA) have the following form.

Hou, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9354

IPv6 over PLC

January 2023

  0                   1                   2                   3
  0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |     Type      |    Length=1   |              NID              :
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 :NID (continued)|  Padding (all zeros)  |          TEI          |
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 3: Unicast Address Mapping for IEEE 1901.1

Option fields:

Type:

1 for Source Link-Layer Address and 2 for Target Link-Layer Address.

Length:

The length of this option (including Type and Length fields) in units of 8 octets. The

value of this field is 1 for the 12-bit IEEE 1901.1 PLC short addresses.

NID:

24-bit Network Identifier

Padding:

12 zero bits

TEI:

12-bit Terminal Equipment Identifier

4.3.2.  Unicast Address Mapping for IEEE 1901.2 and ITU-T G.9903

The Source Link-Layer Address and Target Link-Layer Address options for IEEE_1901.2 and ITU-T
G.9903 used in the NS and NA have the following form.

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |     Type      |    Length=1   |             PAN ID            |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |       Padding (all zeros)     |         Short Address         |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 4: Unicast Address Mapping for IEEE 1901.2

Option fields:

Type:

1 for Source Link-Layer Address and 2 for Target Link-Layer Address.

Length:

The length of this option (including Type and Length fields) in units of 8 octets. The

value of this field is 1 for the 16-bit IEEE 1901.2 PLC short addresses.

PAN ID:

16-bit PAN IDentifier

Padding:

16 zero bits

Hou, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9354

IPv6 over PLC

January 2023

Short Address: 16-bit short address

4.4.  Neighbor Discovery

Neighbor discovery procedures for 6LoWPAN networks are described in
[RFC8505]
are electrically powered, sleeping mode

SHOULD

 still be used for power saving.

. These optimizations support the registration of sleeping hosts. Although PLC devices

[RFC6775]

 and

[RFC6775]

. If the PLC network uses route-over mode, the IPv6 prefix

For IPv6 prefix dissemination, Router Solicitations (RSs) and Router Advertisements (RAs)
used as per
disseminated by the Layer 3 routing protocol, such as RPL, which may include the prefix in the
DIO (DODAG Information Object) message. As per
, it is possible to have PLC devices
configured as RPL-unaware leaves, which do not participate in RPL at all, along with RPL-aware
PLC devices. In this case, the prefix dissemination

 use the RS/RA messages.

[RFC9010]

SHOULD

MAY

MAY

 be

 be

For dissemination of context information, RAs
context option (6CO)
MUST
and/or address compression.

 be used as per
 be included in the RA to disseminate the Context IDs used for prefix

. The 6LoWPAN

[RFC6775]

MUST

MUST

[RFC8505]

[RFC6775]

 register its addresses by sending

 messages. For PLC devices compliant with

, the 'R' flag in the EARO
 be set when sending NSs in order to extract the status information in the replied NAs from

For address registration in route-over mode, a PLC device
a unicast link-local NS to the 6LR. If the registered address is link local, the 6LR
SHOULD NOT
 be registered via
further register it to the registrar (6LBR or 6BBR). Otherwise, the address
MUST
an ARO (Address Registration Option) or EARO (Extended Address Registration Option) included
in the DAR (Duplicate Address Request)
Request)
MUST
the 6LR. If DHCPv6 is used to assign addresses or the IPv6 address is derived from the unique
 be utilized.
long or short link-layer address, Duplicate Address Detection (DAD)
[RFC6775]
Otherwise, DAD
) or proxied by the routing
). The registration status is fed back via the DAC (Duplicate Address
registrar (as per
Confirmation) or EDAC (Extended Duplicate Address Confirmation) message from the 6LBR and
 shows how devices that only behave as specified in
the NA from the 6LR.
[RFC6775]

 can work with devices that have been updated per

 or EDAR (Extended Duplicate Address

 be performed at the 6LBR (as per

MUST
[RFC8505]

Section 6 of [RFC8505]

SHOULD NOT

[RFC8505]
.

[RFC8505]

For address registration in mesh-under mode, since all the PLC devices are link-local neighbors
 register its
to the 6LBR, DAR/DAC or EDAR/EDAC messages are not required. A PLC device
addresses by sending a unicast NS message with an ARO or EARO. The registration status is fed
back via the NA message from the 6LBR.

MUST

4.5.  Header Compression

IPv6 header compression in PLC is based on
specifies the compression format for IPv6 datagrams on top of IEEE 802.15.4; therefore, this
format is used for compression of IPv6 datagrams within PLC MAC frames. For situations when
the PLC MAC MTU cannot support the 1280-octet IPv6 packet, the headers
 be compressed
according to the encoding formats specified in
LOWPAN_IPHC, and the compression residue carried inline.

, including the Dispatch Header, the

 (which updates

[RFC4944]

[RFC6282]

[RFC6282]

[RFC6282]

MUST

).

Hou, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9354

IPv6 over PLC

January 2023

. However, additional adaptation

For IEEE 1901.2 and ITU-T G.9903, the IP header compression follows the instruction in
[RFC6282]
MUST
short address of 12 bits instead of 16 bits. The only modification is the semantics of the "Source
Section 3.1 of [RFC6282]
Address Mode" and the "Destination Address Mode" when set as "10" in
,
which is illustrated as follows.

 be considered for IEEE 1901.1 since it has a

SAM: Source Address Mode:

If SAC=0: Stateless compression

10:

16 bits. The first 112 bits of the address are elided. The value of the first 64 bits is the link-
local prefix padded with zeros. The following 64 bits are 0000:00ff:fe00:0XXX, where 0XXX
are the 16 bits carried inline, in which the first 4 bits are zero.

If SAC=1: Stateful context-based compression

10:

16 bits. The address is derived using context information and the 16 bits carried inline. Bits
covered by context information are always used. Any IID bits not covered by context
information are taken directly from their corresponding bits in the mapping between the
16-bit short address and the IID as provided by 0000:00ff:fe00:0XXX, where 0XXX are the
16 bits carried inline, in which the first 4 bits are zero. Any remaining bits are zero.

DAM: Destination Address Mode:

If M=0 and DAC=0: Stateless compression

10:

16 bits. The first 112 bits of the address are elided. The value of the first 64 bits is the link-
local prefix padded with zeros. The following 64 bits are 0000:00ff:fe00:0XXX, where 0XXX
are the 16 bits carried inline, in which the first 4 bits are zero.

If M=0 and DAC=1: Stateful context-based compression

10:

16 bits. The address is derived using context information and the 16 bits carried inline. Bits
covered by context information are always used. Any IID bits not covered by context
information are taken directly from their corresponding bits in the mapping between the
16-bit short address and the IID as provided by 0000:00ff:fe00:0XXX, where 0XXX are the
16 bits carried inline, in which the first 4 bits are zero. Any remaining bits are zero.

4.6.  Fragmentation and Reassembly

The constrained PLC MAC layer provides the functions of fragmentation and reassembly.
However, fragmentation and reassembly are still required at the adaptation layer if the MAC
layer cannot support the minimum MTU demanded by IPv6, which is 1280 octets.

Hou, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9354

IPv6 over PLC

January 2023

In IEEE 1901.1 and IEEE 1901.2, the MAC layer supports payloads as big as 2031 octets and 1576
octets, respectively. However, when the channel condition is noisy, smaller packets have a higher
transmission success rate, and the operator can choose to configure smaller MTU at the MAC
layer. If the configured MTU is smaller than 1280 octets, the fragmentation and reassembly
defined in

[RFC4944] MUST

 be used.

In ITU-T G.9903, the maximum MAC payload size is fixed to 400 octets, so to cope with the
required MTU of 1280 octets by IPv6, fragmentation and reassembly at the 6lo adaptation layer
MUST

 be provided as specified in

[RFC4944]
.

[RFC4944]
 uses a 16-bit datagram tag to identify the fragments of the same IP packet.
specifies that at high data rates, the 16-bit IP identification field is not large enough to prevent
frequent incorrectly assembled IP fragments. For constrained PLC, the data rate is much lower
than the situation mentioned in
fragments correctly.

; thus, the 16-bit tag is sufficient to assemble the

[RFC4963]

[RFC4963]

5.  Internet Connectivity Scenarios and Topologies

The PLC network model can be simplified to two kinds of network devices: PAN Coordinator
(PANC) and PLC device. The PANC is the primary coordinator of the PLC subnet and can be seen
as a primary node; PLC devices are typically PLC meters and sensors. The address registration
and DAD features can also be deployed on the PANC, for example, the 6LBR
. IPv6 over PLC networks are built as tree, mesh, or star topologies
routing registrar
according to the use cases. Generally, each PLC network has one PANC. In some cases, the PLC
network can have alternate coordinators to replace the PANC when the PANC leaves the network
for some reason. Note that the PLC topologies in this section are based on logical connectivity, not
physical links. The term "PLC subnet" refers to a multilink subnet, in which the PLC devices share
the same address prefix.

[RFC8505]

[RFC6775]

 or the

The star topology is common in current PLC scenarios. In single-hop star topologies,
communication at the link layer only takes place between a PLC device and a PANC. The PANC
typically collects data (e.g., a meter reading) from the PLC devices and then concentrates and
uploads the data through Ethernet or cellular networks (see Figure 5). The collected data is
transmitted by the smart meters through PLC, aggregated by a concentrator, and sent to the
utility and then to a Meter Data Management System for data storage, analysis, and billing. This
topology has been widely applied in the deployment of smart meters, especially in apartment
buildings.

Hou, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9354

IPv6 over PLC

January 2023

                PLC Device   PLC Device
                      \        /           +---------
                       \      /           /
                        \    /           +
                         \  /            |
       PLC Device ------ PANC ===========+  Internet
                         /  \            |
                        /    \           +
                       /      \           \
                      /        \           +---------
                PLC Device   PLC Device

             <---------------------->
            PLC subnet (IPv6 over PLC)

Figure 5: PLC Star Network Connected to the Internet

A tree topology is useful when the distance between a device A and the PANC is beyond the PLC-
allowed limit and there is another device B in between able to communicate with both sides.
Device B in this case acts as both a PLC device and a Coordinator. For this scenario, the link-layer
communications take place between device A and device B, and between device B and PANC. An
example of a PLC tree network is depicted in Figure 6. This topology can be applied in smart
street lighting, where the lights adjust the brightness to reduce energy consumption while
sensors are deployed on the street lights to provide information such as light intensity,
temperature, and humidity. The data-transmission distance in the street lighting scenario is
normally above several kilometers; thus, a PLC tree network is required. A more sophisticated
[RFC8036]
AMI network may also be constructed into the tree topology that is depicted in
topology is suitable for AMI scenarios that require large coverage but low density, e.g., the
deployment of smart meters in rural areas. RPL is suitable for maintenance of a tree topology in
which there is no need for communication directly between PAN devices.

. A tree

                       PLC Device
                            \                   +---------
            PLC Device A     \                 /
                    \         \               +
                     \         \              |
              PLC Device B -- PANC ===========+  Internet
                     /         /              |
                    /         /               +
   PLC Device---PLC Device   /                 \
                            /                   +---------
           PLC Device---PLC Device

         <------------------------->
         PLC subnet (IPv6 over PLC)

Figure 6: PLC Tree Network Connected to the Internet

Hou, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9354

IPv6 over PLC

January 2023

Mesh networking in PLC has many potential applications and has been studied for several years.
By connecting all nodes with their neighbors in communication range (see Figure 7), a mesh
topology dramatically enhances the communication efficiency and thus expands the size of PLC
networks. A simple use case is the smart home scenario where the ON/OFF state of air
conditioning is controlled by the state of home lights (ON/OFF) and doors (OPEN/CLOSE). AODV-
RPL
 enables direct communication between PLC devices, without being obliged to
transmit frames through the PANC, which is a requirement often cited for the AMI infrastructure.

[AODV-RPL]

             PLC Device---PLC Device
                 / \        / \                   +---------
                /   \      /   \                 /
               /     \    /     \               +
              /       \  /       \              |
       PLC Device--PLC Device---PANC ===========+  Internet
              \       /  \       /              |
               \     /    \     /               +
                \   /      \   /                 \
                 \ /        \ /                   +---------
             PLC Device---PLC Device

     <------------------------------->
         PLC subnet (IPv6 over PLC)

Figure 7: PLC Mesh Network Connected to the Internet

6.  Operations and Manageability Considerations

Constrained PLC networks are not managed in the same way as enterprise networks or carrier
networks. Constrained PLC networks, like the other IoT networks, are designed to be self-
organized and self-managed. The software or firmware is flashed into the devices before
deployment by the vendor or operator. And during the deployment process, the devices are
bootstrapped, and no extra configuration is needed to get the devices connected to each other.
Once a device becomes offline, it goes back to the bootstrapping stage and tries to rejoin the
network. The onboarding status of the devices and the topology of the PLC network can be
visualized via the PANC. The recently formed IOTOPS WG in the IETF aims to identify the
requirements in IoT network management, and operational practices will be published.
Developers and operators of PLC networks should be able to learn operational experiences from
this WG.

7.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

Hou, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9354

IPv6 over PLC

January 2023

8.  Security Considerations

Due to the high accessibility of power grids, PLC might be susceptible to eavesdropping within its
communication coverage, e.g., one apartment tenant may have the chance to monitor the other
smart meters in the same apartment building. Link-layer security mechanisms, such as payload
encryption and device authentication, are designed in the PLC technologies mentioned in this
document. Additionally, an on-path malicious PLC device could eavesdrop or modify packets sent
through it if appropriate confidentiality and integrity mechanisms are not implemented.

[RFC7925]

[ZEROTOUCH]

Malicious PLC devices could paralyze the whole network via DoS attacks, e.g., keep joining and
leaving the network frequently or sending multicast routing messages containing fake metrics. A
device may also inadvertently join a wrong or even malicious network, exposing its data to
malicious users. When communicating with a device outside the PLC network, the traffic has to
go through the PANC. Thus, the PANC must be a trusted entity. Moreover, the PLC network must
prevent malicious devices from joining the network. Thus, mutual authentication of a PLC
network and a new device is important, and it can be conducted during the onboarding process
of the new device. Methods include protocols such as the TLS/DTLS Profile
(exchanging pre-installed certificates over DTLS), the Constrained Join Protocol (CoJP)
(which uses pre-shared keys), and Zero-Touch Secure Join
Bootstrapping Remote Secure Key Infrastructure (BRSKI), which uses an Initial Device Identifier
(IDevID) and a Manufacturer Authorized Signing Authority (MASA) service to facilitate
authentication). It is also possible to use Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP) methods such
as the one defined in
Network Access (PANA)
. No specific mechanism is specified by this document, as an
appropriate mechanism will depend upon deployment circumstances. In some cases, the PLC
devices can be deployed in uncontrolled places, where the devices may be accessed physically
and be compromised via key extraction. The compromised device may be still able to join in the
network since its credentials are still valid. When group-shared symmetric keys are used in the
network, the consequence is even more severe, i.e., the whole network or a large part of the
network is at risk. Thus, in scenarios where physical attacks are considered to be relatively
highly possible, per-device credentials
SHOULD
services are complementary to the network-side security mechanisms, e.g., if a device is
compromised and has joined in the network, and then it claims itself as the PANC and tries to
make the rest of the devices join its network. In this situation, the real PANC can send an alarm to
the operator to acknowledge the risk. Other behavior-analysis mechanisms can be deployed to
recognize the malicious PLC devices by inspecting the packets and the data.

 via transports like Protocol for Carrying Authentication for

 be used. Moreover, additional end-to-end security

 (an IoT version of the

[RFC5191]

[RFC9031]

[RFC9140]

IP addresses may be used to track devices on the Internet; such devices can often in turn be
linked to individuals and their activities. Depending on the application and the actual use
pattern, this may be undesirable. To impede tracking, globally unique and non-changing
characteristics of IP addresses should be avoided, e.g., by frequently changing the global prefix
and avoiding unique link-layer derived IIDs in addresses.
 discusses the privacy threats
when an IID is generated without sufficient entropy, including correlation of activities over time,
location tracking, device-specific vulnerability exploitation, and address scanning. And an

[RFC8065]

Hou, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9354

IPv6 over PLC

January 2023

[RFC8065]

effective way to deal with these threats is to have enough entropy in the IID compared to the link
lifetime. Consider a PLC network with 1024 devices and a link lifetime is 8 years, according to the
formula in
, an entropy of 40 bits is sufficient. Padding the short address (12 or 16 bits)
to generate the IID of a routable IPv6 address in the public network may be vulnerable to deal
with address scans. Thus, as suggested in Section 4.1, a hash function can be used to generate a
64-bit IID. When the version number of the PLC network is changed, the IPv6 addresses can be
changed as well. Other schemes such as limited lease period in DHCPv6
Cryptographically Generated Addresses (CGAs)
[RFC8981]
SHOULD

, Hash-Based Addresses (HBAs)
 be used to enhance the IID privacy.

, or semantically opaque addresses

, Temporary Address Extensions

[RFC8415]
,

[RFC3972]

[RFC5535]

[RFC7217]

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[IEEE_1901.1]

[IEEE_1901.2]

[ITU-T_G.9903]

[RFC2119]

[RFC2464]

[RFC4291]

[RFC4861]

[RFC4944]

,

IEEE "IEEE Standard for Medium Frequency (less than 12 MHz) Power Line
Communications for Smart Grid Applications" DOI 10.1109/IEEESTD.
2018.8360785 IEEE Std 1901.1
,
8360785>

<https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/

, May 2018,

,

.

,

IEEE "IEEE Standard for Low-Frequency (less than 500 kHz) Narrowband
Power Line Communications for Smart Grid Applications" DOI 10.1109/
IEEESTD.2013.6679210 IEEE Std 1901.2
ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/6679210>

, December 2013,
.

<https://

,

,

,

ITU-T "Narrowband orthogonal frequency division multiplexing power line
communication transceivers for G3-PLC networks" ITU-T Recommendation G.
<https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-G.9903>
9903

, August 2017,

,

.

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Crawford, M. "Transmission of IPv6 Packets over Ethernet Networks" RFC 2464
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC2464
rfc2464>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, December 1998,

,

.

Hinden, R.
10.17487/RFC4291

S. Deering "IP Version 6 Addressing Architecture" RFC 4291 DOI

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4291>
.

,
, February 2006,

 and

,

,

Narten, T. Nordmark, E. Simpson, W.
IP version 6 (IPv6)" RFC 4861 DOI 10.17487/RFC4861
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4861>

, and

,

,

.

H. Soliman "Neighbor Discovery for
,
<https://
, September 2007,

,

Montenegro, G. Kushalnagar, N. Hui, J.
Packets over IEEE 802.15.4 Networks" RFC 4944 DOI 10.17487/RFC4944
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4944>
September 2007,

D. Culler "Transmission of IPv6

, and

,

,

,

,

.

Hou, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9354

IPv6 over PLC

January 2023

[RFC6282]

[RFC6550]

[RFC6775]

[RFC7136]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8505]

 and

Hui, J., Ed.
802.15.4-Based Networks" RFC 6282 DOI 10.17487/RFC6282
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6282>

P. Thubert "Compression Format for IPv6 Datagrams over IEEE
, September 2011,

,
,

,

.

,

Winter, T., Ed. Thubert, P., Ed. Brandt, A. Hui, J. Kelsey, R. Levis, P. Pister, K.
,
Struik, R. Vasseur, JP.
R. Alexander "RPL: IPv6 Routing Protocol for Low-
,
Power and Lossy Networks" RFC 6550 DOI 10.17487/RFC6550
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6550>

, March 2012,

, and

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

Shelby, Z., Ed. Chakrabarti, S. Nordmark, E.
C. Bormann "Neighbor
,
Discovery Optimization for IPv6 over Low-Power Wireless Personal Area
Networks (6LoWPANs)" RFC 6775 DOI 10.17487/RFC6775
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6775>

, November 2012,

, and

,

,

,

.

 and

Carpenter, B.
DOI 10.17487/RFC7136
rfc7136>

.

S. Jiang "Significance of IPv6 Interface Identifiers" RFC 7136

,

,

,

, February 2014,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Thubert, P., Ed. Nordmark, E. Chakrabarti, S.
Extensions for IPv6 over Low-Power Wireless Personal Area Network
(6LoWPAN) Neighbor Discovery" RFC 8505 DOI 10.17487/RFC8505
,
2018,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8505>

, and

,

.

,

C. Perkins "Registration

,

, November

9.2.  Informative References

[AODV-RPL]

[EUI-64]

[IEEE_1901.2a]

[RFC3972]

,

Perkins, C. E. Anand, S.V.R. Anamalamudi, S.
Asymmetric Links in Low Power Networks: AODV-RPL" Work in Progress
Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-roll-aodv-rpl-15
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-roll-aodv-rpl-15>

, 30 September 2022,

B. Liu "Supporting

<https://

, and

,
,

,

.

,

IEEE Standards Association "Guidelines for Use of Extended Unique Identifier
(EUI), Organizationally Unique Identifier (OUI), and Company ID (CID)"
, August
2017,
tutorials/eui.pdf>

<https://standards.ieee.org/wp-content/uploads/import/documents/

,

.

,

IEEE "IEEE Standard for Low-Frequency (less than 500 kHz) Narrowband
Power Line Communications for Smart Grid Applications - Amendment 1" DOI
,
10.1109/IEEESTD.2013.6679210 IEEE Std 1901.2a
ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7286946>

, October 2015,

<https://

,

.

Aura, T. "Cryptographically Generated Addresses (CGA)" RFC 3972 DOI
,
10.17487/RFC3972

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3972>

, March 2005,

,

,

.

Hou, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9354

IPv6 over PLC

January 2023

[RFC4963]

[RFC5191]

[RFC5535]

[RFC7217]

[RFC7925]

[RFC7973]

[RFC8036]

[RFC8065]

[RFC8415]

[RFC8981]

[RFC9010]

[RFC9031]

Heffner, J. Mathis, M.
,
,
Rates" RFC 4963 DOI 10.17487/RFC4963
,
info/rfc4963>

, and

,

.

B. Chandler "IPv4 Reassembly Errors at High Data

, July 2007,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

,

Forsberg, D. Ohba, Y., Ed. Patil, B. Tschofenig, H.
Carrying Authentication for Network Access (PANA)" RFC 5191 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5191

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5191>

A. Yegin "Protocol for

, and
,

, May 2008,

,
,

,

,

.

Bagnulo, M. "Hash-Based Addresses (HBA)" RFC 5535 DOI 10.17487/RFC5535
June 2009,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5535>

,

,

.

,

,

Gont, F. "A Method for Generating Semantically Opaque Interface Identifiers
with IPv6 Stateless Address Autoconfiguration (SLAAC)" RFC 7217 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7217>
10.17487/RFC7217

, April 2014,

,

,

.

Tschofenig, H., Ed.
T. Fossati "Transport Layer Security (TLS) / Datagram
Transport Layer Security (DTLS) Profiles for the Internet of Things" RFC 7925
DOI 10.17487/RFC7925

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7925>

, July 2016,

 and

,

,

.

,

 and

P. Duffy "Assignment of an Ethertype for IPv6 with Low-Power

Droms, R.
Wireless Personal Area Network (LoWPAN) Encapsulation" RFC 7973 DOI
10.17487/RFC7973

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7973>

, November 2016,

,

,

,

.

,

Cam-Winget, N., Ed. Hui, J.
D. Popa "Applicability Statement for the
Routing Protocol for Low-Power and Lossy Networks (RPL) in Advanced
Metering Infrastructure (AMI) Networks" RFC 8036 DOI 10.17487/RFC8036
January 2017,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8036>

, and

,

,

,

.

,

,

Thaler, D. "Privacy Considerations for IPv6 Adaptation-Layer Mechanisms" RFC
8065 DOI 10.17487/RFC8065
,
rfc8065>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, February 2017,

.

Mrugalski, T. Siodelski, M. Volz, B. Yourtchenko, A. Richardson, M. Jiang, S.
,
Lemon, T.
, and
(DHCPv6)" RFC 8415 DOI 10.17487/RFC8415
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc8415>

T. Winters "Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol for IPv6

, November 2018,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

,

Gont, F. Krishnan, S. Narten, T.
for Stateless Address Autoconfiguration in IPv6" RFC 8981 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8981

R. Draves "Temporary Address Extensions
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8981>

, February 2021,

, and

,

,

,

.

 and

Thubert, P., Ed.
,
Power and Lossy Networks) Leaves" RFC 9010 DOI 10.17487/RFC9010
2021,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9010>
.

M. Richardson "Routing for RPL (Routing Protocol for Low-

, April

,

,

Vučinić, M., Ed. Simon, J. Pister, K.
Protocol (CoJP) for 6TiSCH" RFC 9031 DOI 10.17487/RFC9031
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9031>

, and
,

,

,

,

.

M. Richardson "Constrained Join

, May 2021,

<https://

Hou, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9354

IPv6 over PLC

January 2023

[RFC9140]

[SCENA]

[ZEROTOUCH]

A. Peltonen "Nimble Out-of-Band Authentication for EAP
Aura, T. Sethi, M.
,
(EAP-NOOB)" RFC 9140 DOI 10.17487/RFC9140
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9140>

, December 2021,

<https://

, and

,

.

,

,

,

A. Dabak "State of the
Cano, C. Pittolo, A. Malone, D. Lampe, L. Tonello, A.
Art in Power Line Communications: From the Applications to the Medium" IEEE
Journal on Selected Areas in Communications, Volume 34, Issue 7 DOI 10.1109/
JSAC.2016.2566018
.

<https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7467440>

, July 2016,

, and

,

,

,

,

,

,

Richardson, M. "6tisch Zero-Touch Secure Join protocol" Work in Progress
Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-6tisch-dtsecurity-zerotouch-join-04
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-6tisch-dtsecurity-zerotouch-join-04>

, 8 July 2019,

,

,
<https://

.

Acknowledgements

 and

Samita Chakrabarti

Gabriel Montenegro

 for their guidance in the liaison process. The authors wish to thank

We gratefully acknowledge suggestions from the members of the IETF 6lo Working Group. Great
thanks to
connecting the IEEE and ITU-T sides. The authors thank
Kinney
Lys Yizhou Li Yuefeng Wu
,
,
contributions. The authors wish to thank
authors also thank
acknowledgements to the valuable comments from the following reviewers:
Romascanu Murray Kucherawy Benjamin Kaduk Alvaro Retana Éric Vyncke Meral
Shirazipour Roman Danyliw

 for their feedback and support in
Scott Mansfield Ralph Droms
,

 for delivering the presentation at IETF 113. Sincere

 for shepherding this document. The

 for their valuable comments and

Michael Richardson

Dave Thaler Dan

Stefano Galli Thierry

Paolo Volpato

Carles Gomez

, and
,

Lars Eggert
.

, and

, and

Pat

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

Authors' Addresses

Jianqiang Hou
Huawei Technologies
101 Software Avenue,
Nanjing
210012
China
Email:

 houjianqiang@huawei.com

Bing Liu
Huawei Technologies
Haidian District
No. 156 Beiqing Rd.
Beijing
100095
China
Email:

 remy.liubing@huawei.com

Hou, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9354

IPv6 over PLC

January 2023

Yong-Geun Hong
Daejeon University
Dong-gu
62 Daehak-ro
Daejeon
34520
Republic of Korea
Email:

 yonggeun.hong@gmail.com

Xiaojun Tang
State Grid Electric Power Research Institute
19 Chengxin Avenue
Nanjing
211106
China
Email:

 itc@sgepri.sgcc.com.cn

Charles E. Perkins
Lupin Lodge
Email:

 charliep@computer.org

Hou, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

