Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9069
7854
Standards Track
February 2022
2070-1721
T. Evens
Cisco Systems

S. Bayraktar
Menlo Security

M. Bhardwaj
Cisco Systems

P. Lucente
NTT Communications

RFC 9069
Support for Local RIB in the BGP Monitoring Protocol
(BMP)

Abstract

The BGP Monitoring Protocol (BMP) deﬁnes access to local Routing Information Bases (RIBs).
This document updates BMP (RFC 7854) by adding access to the Local Routing Information Base
(Loc-RIB), as deﬁned in RFC 4271. The Loc-RIB contains the routes that have been selected by the
local BGP speaker's Decision Process.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9069
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Evens, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9069

BMP Loc-RIB

February 2022

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Alternative Method to Monitor Loc-RIB

2.  Terminology

3.  Deﬁnitions

4.  Per-Peer Header

4.1.  Peer Type

4.2.  Peer Flags

5.  Loc-RIB Monitoring

5.1.  Per-Peer Header

5.2.  Peer Up Notiﬁcation

5.2.1.  Peer Up Information

5.3.  Peer Down Notiﬁcation

5.4.  Route Monitoring

5.4.1.  ASN Encoding

5.4.2.  Granularity

5.5.  Route Mirroring

5.6.  Statistics Report

6.  Other Considerations

6.1.  Loc-RIB Implementation

6.1.1.  Multiple Loc-RIB Peers

6.1.2.  Filtering Loc-RIB to BMP Receivers

6.1.3.  Changes to Existing BMP Sessions

7.  Security Considerations

Evens, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9069

BMP Loc-RIB

February 2022

8.  IANA Considerations

8.1.  BMP Peer Type

8.2.  BMP Loc-RIB Instance Peer Flags

8.3.  Peer Up Information TLV

8.4.  Peer Down Reason Code

8.5.  Deprecated Entries

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

This document deﬁnes a mechanism to monitor the BGP Loc-RIB state of remote BGP instances
without the need to establish BGP peering sessions. BMP
 does not deﬁne a method to
send the BGP instance Loc-RIB. It does deﬁne locally originated routes in
but these routes are deﬁned as the routes that originated into BGP (e.g.,
Loc-RIB includes all selected received routes from BGP peers in addition to locally originated
routes.

Section 8.2 of [RFC7854]
).

Section 9.4 of [RFC4271]

[RFC7854]

,

Figure 1 shows the ﬂow of received routes from one or more BGP peers into the Loc-RIB.

Evens, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9069

BMP Loc-RIB

February 2022

    +------------------+      +------------------+
    | Peer-A           |      | Peer-B           |
/-- |                  | ---- |                  | --\
|   | Adj-RIB-In (Pre) |      | Adj-RIB-In (Pre) |   |
|   +------------------+      +------------------+   |
|                 |                         |        |
| Filters/Policy -|         Filters/Policy -|        |
|                 V                         V        |
|   +------------------+      +------------------+   |
|   | Adj-RIB-In (Post)|      | Adj-RIB-In (Post)|   |
|   +------------------+      +------------------+   |
|                |                          |        |
|      Selected -|                Selected -|        |
|                V                          V        |
|    +-----------------------------------------+     |
|    |                 Loc-RIB                 |     |
|    +-----------------------------------------+     |
|                                                    |
| ROUTER/BGP Instance                                |
\----------------------------------------------------/

Figure 1: BGP Peering Adj-RIBs-In into Loc-RIB

The following are some use cases for Loc-RIB access:

•

The Adj-RIB-In for a given peer post-policy may contain hundreds of thousands of routes,
with only a handful of routes selected and installed in the Loc-RIB after best-path selection.
Some monitoring applications, such as those that need only to correlate ﬂow records to Loc-
RIB entries, only need to collect and monitor the routes that are actually selected and used.

Requiring the applications to collect all Adj-RIB-In post-policy data forces the applications to
receive a potentially large unwanted data set and to perform the BGP decision process
selection, which includes having access to the interior gateway protocol (IGP) next-hop
metrics. While it is possible to obtain the IGP topology information using BGP - Link State
(BGP-LS), it requires the application to implement Shortest Path First (SPF) and possibly
Constrained Shortest Path First (CSPF) based on additional policies. This is overly complex for
such a simple application that only needs to have access to the Loc-RIB.

•

It is common to see frequent changes over many BGP peers, but those changes do not always
result in the router's Loc-RIB changing. The change in the Loc-RIB can have a direct impact
on the forwarding state. It can greatly reduce the time to troubleshoot and resolve issues if
operators have the history of Loc-RIB changes. For example, a performance issue might have
been seen for only a duration of 5 minutes. Post-facto troubleshooting this issue without Loc-
RIB history hides any decision-based routing changes that might have happened during those
5 minutes.

•

Operators may wish to validate the impact of policies applied to the Adj-RIB-In by analyzing
the ﬁnal decision made by the router when installing into the Loc-RIB. For example, in order
to validate if multipath preﬁxes are installed as expected for all advertising peers, the Adj-
RIB-In post-policy and Loc-RIB need to be compared. This is only possible if the Loc-RIB is
available. Monitoring the Adj-RIB-In for this router from another router to derive the Loc-RIB
is likely to not show the same installed preﬁxes. For example, the received Adj-RIB-In will be

Evens, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9069

BMP Loc-RIB

February 2022

diﬀerent if ADD-PATH
equal paths is diﬀerent between Loc-RIB and advertised routes.

[RFC7911]

 is not enabled or if the maximum supported number of

This document adds Loc-RIB to the BGP Monitoring Protocol and replaces
[RFC7854]

 ("Locally Originated Routes").

Section 8.2 of

1.1.  Alternative Method to Monitor Loc-RIB

Loc-RIB is used to build Adj-RIB-Out when advertising routes to a peer. It is therefore possible to
derive the Loc-RIB of a router by monitoring the Adj-RIB-In pre-policy from another router. This
becomes overly complex and error prone when considering the number of peers being
monitored per router.

/------------------------------------------------------\
|  ROUTER1 BGP Instance                                |
|                                                      |
|     +--------------------------------------------+   |
|     |                 Loc-RIB                    |   |
|     +--------------------------------------------+   |
|                    |                    |            |
|    +------------------+     +------------------+     |
|    |   Peer-ROUTER2   |     |   Peer-ROUTER3   |     |
|    | Adj-RIB-Out (Pre)|     | Adj-RIB-Out (Pre)|     |
|    +------------------+     +------------------+     |
|    Filters/Policy -|    Filters/Policy -|            |
|                    V                    V            |
|   +-------------------+     +-------------------+    |
|   | Adj-RIB-Out (Post)|     | Adj-RIB-Out (Post)|    |
|   +-------------------+     +-------------------+    |
|              |                          |            |
\------------- | ------------------------ | -----------/
          BGP  |                     BGP  |
          Peer |                     Peer |
   +------------------+          +------------------+
   |   Peer-ROUTER1   |          |   Peer-ROUTER1   |
/--|                  |--\    /--|                  | --\
|  | Adj-RIB-In (Pre) |  |    |  | Adj-RIB-In (Pre) |   |
|  +------------------+  |    |  +------------------+   |
|                        |    |                         |
| ROUTER2/BGP Instance   |    | ROUTER3/BGP Instance    |
\------------------------/    \-------------------------/
            |                              |
            v                              v
    ROUTER2 BMP Feed               ROUTER3 BMP Feed

Figure 2: Alternative Method to Monitor Loc-RIB

The setup needed to monitor the Loc-RIB of a router requires another router with a peering
session to the target router that is to be monitored. As shown in Figure 2, the target router Loc-RIB
is advertised via the Adj-RIB-Out to the BMP router over a standard BGP peering session. The BMP
router then forwards the Adj-RIB-In pre-policy to the BMP receiver.

Evens, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9069

BMP Loc-RIB

February 2022

A BMP lacking access to Loc-RIB introduces the need for additional resources:

•

Requires at least two routers when only one router was to be monitored.

•

Requires additional BGP peering to collect the received updates when peering may not have
even been required in the ﬁrst place. For example, virtual routing and forwarding (VRF)
tables with no peers, redistributed BGP-LS with no peers, and segment routing egress peer
engineering where no peers have link-state address family enabled are all situations with no
preexisting BGP peers.

Many complexities are introduced when using a received Adj-RIB-In to infer a router Loc-RIB:

•

Adj-RIB-Out received as Adj-RIB-In from another router may have a policy applied that
generates aggregates, suppresses more speciﬁc preﬁxes, manipulates attributes, or ﬁlters
routes. Not only does this invalidate the Loc-RIB view, it adds complexity when multiple BMP
routers may have peering sessions to the same router. The BMP receiver user is left with the
error-prone task of identifying which peering session is the best representative of the Loc-RIB.

•

BGP peering is designed to work between administrative domains and therefore does not
need to include internal system-level information of each peering router (e.g., the system
name or version information). In order to derive the Loc-RIB of a router, the router name or
other system information is needed. The BMP receiver and user are forced to do some type of
correlation using whatever information is available in the peering session (e.g., peering
addresses, autonomous system numbers, and BGP identiﬁers). This leads to error-prone
correlations.

•

Correlating BGP identiﬁers (BGP-ID) and session addresses to a router requires additional
data, such as router inventory. This additional data provides the BMP receiver the ability to
map and correlate the BGP-IDs and/or session addresses but requires the BMP receiver to
somehow obtain this data outside of the BMP. How this data is obtained and the accuracy of
the data directly aﬀect the integrity of the correlation.

2.  Terminology

The key words "
", "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
", "
"
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
they appear in all capitals, as shown here.

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

RFC 2119 [RFC2119] RFC 8174 [RFC8174]

 when, and only when,

3.  Deﬁnitions

BGP Instance:
[RFC7854]

 apply to it.

Refers to an instance of BGP-4

[RFC4271]

, and considerations in

Section 8.1 of

Adj-RIB-In:

As deﬁned in

[RFC4271]

, "The Adj-RIBs-In contains unprocessed routing information

that has been advertised to the local BGP speaker by its peers." This is also referred to as the
"pre-policy Adj-RIB-In" in this document.

Evens, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9069

BMP Loc-RIB

February 2022

Adj-RIB-Out:

As deﬁned in

[RFC4271]

, "The Adj-RIBs-Out contains the routes for advertisement to

speciﬁc peers by means of the local speaker's UPDATE messages."

Loc-RIB:

As deﬁned in

Section 1.1 of [RFC4271]

, "The Loc-RIB contains the routes that have been
selected by the local BGP speaker's Decision Process." Note that the Loc-RIB state as monitored
through BMP might also contain routes imported from other routing protocols such as an IGP
or local static routes.

Pre-Policy Adj-RIB-Out:

The result before applying the outbound policy to an Adj-RIB-Out. This

normally represents a similar view of the Loc-RIB but may contain additional routes based on
BGP peering conﬁguration.

Post-Policy Adj-RIB-Out:

The result of applying the outbound policy to an Adj-RIB-Out. This

MUST

be what is actually sent to the peer.

4.  Per-Peer Header

4.1.  Peer Type

A new peer type is deﬁned for Loc-RIB to indicate that it represents the router Loc-RIB, which may
have a route distinguisher (RD).
 deﬁnes a Local Instance Peer type, which
is for the case of non-RD peers that have an instance identiﬁer.

Section 4.2 of [RFC7854]

This document deﬁnes the following new peer type:

•

Peer Type = 3: Loc-RIB Instance Peer

4.2.  Peer Flags

If locally sourced routes are communicated using BMP, they
Instance Peer Type.

MUST

 be conveyed using the Loc-RIB

The per-peer header ﬂags for the Loc-RIB Instance Peer Type are deﬁned as follows:

     0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |F| | | | | | | |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

•

The F ﬂag indicates that the Loc-RIB is ﬁltered. This
RIB routes sent to the BMP collector.

MUST

 be set when a ﬁlter is applied to Loc-

The unused bits are reserved for future use. They
MUST

 be ignored on receipt.

MUST

 be transmitted as 0, and their values

Evens, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9069

BMP Loc-RIB

February 2022

5.  Loc-RIB Monitoring

. These routes include those learned from BGP peers via its Adj-RIBs-In post-policy, as

The Loc-RIB contains all routes selected by the BGP Decision Process as described in
[RFC4271]
well as routes learned by other means as per
. Examples of these include
redistribution of routes from other protocols into BGP or those otherwise locally originated (i.e.,
aggregate routes).

Section 9.4 of [RFC4271]

Section 9.1 of

As described in Section 6.1.2, a subset of Loc-RIB routes
the F ﬂag.

MAY

 be sent to a BMP collector by setting

5.1.  Per-Peer Header

All peer messages that include a per-peer header as deﬁned in
the following values:

Section 4.2 of [RFC7854] MUST

 use

Peer Type:

Set to 3 to indicate Loc-RIB Instance Peer.

Peer Distinguisher:

Zero-ﬁlled if the Loc-RIB represents the global instance. Otherwise, set to the
route distinguisher or unique locally deﬁned value of the particular instance to which the Loc-
RIB belongs.

Peer Address:

Zero-ﬁlled. The remote peer address is not applicable. The V ﬂag is not applicable

with the Loc-RIB Instance Peer Type considering addresses are zero-ﬁlled.

Peer Autonomous System (AS):

Set to the primary router BGP autonomous system number

(ASN).

Peer BGP ID:

Set the ID to the router-id of the VRF instance if VRF is used; otherwise, set to the

global instance router-id.

Timestamp:

The time when the encapsulated routes were installed in the Loc-RIB, expressed in
seconds and microseconds since midnight (zero hour), January 1, 1970 (UTC). If zero, the time
is unavailable. Precision of the timestamp is implementation dependent.

5.2.  Peer Up Notiﬁcation

Peer Up notiﬁcations follow

Section 4.10 of [RFC7854]

 with the following clariﬁcations:

Local Address:

Zero-ﬁlled; the local address is not applicable.

Local Port:

Set to 0; the local port is not applicable.

Remote Port:

Set to 0; the remote port is not applicable.

Evens, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9069

BMP Loc-RIB

February 2022

Sent OPEN Message:

This is a fabricated BGP OPEN message. Capabilities

MUST

 include the 4-

octet ASN and all necessary capabilities to represent the Loc-RIB Route Monitoring messages.
Only include capabilities if they will be used for Loc-RIB monitoring messages. For example, if
ADD-PATH is enabled for IPv6 and Loc-RIB contains additional paths, the ADD-PATH
capability should be included for IPv6. In the case of ADD-PATH, the capability intent of
advertise, receive, or both can be ignored since the presence of the capability indicates enough
that additional paths will be used for IPv6.

Received OPEN Message:

Repeat of the same sent OPEN message. The duplication allows the

BMP receiver to parse the expected received OPEN message as deﬁned in
[RFC7854]

.

Section 4.10 of

5.2.1.  Peer Up Information

The following Peer Up Information TLV type is added:

•

Type = 3: VRF/Table Name. The Information ﬁeld contains a UTF-8 string whose value
MUST
be equal to the value of the VRF or table name (e.g., RD instance name) being conveyed. The
string size

 be within the range of 1 to 255 bytes.

MUST

The VRF/Table Name TLV is optionally included to support implementations that may not
have deﬁned a name. If a name is conﬁgured, it
"global"
MUST
TLV is included, then it

 be used for the default Loc-RIB instance with a zero-ﬁlled distinguisher. If the
 also be included in the Peer Down notiﬁcation.

 be included. The default value of

MUST

MUST

The Information ﬁeld contains a UTF-8 string whose value
or table name (e.g., RD instance name) being conveyed. The string size
of 1 to 255 bytes.

MUST

 be equal to the value of the VRF
 be within the range

MUST

The VRF/Table Name TLV is optionally included to support implementations that may not have
deﬁned a name. If a name is conﬁgured, it
MUST
be used for the default Loc-RIB instance with a zero-ﬁlled distinguisher. If the TLV is included,
then it

 also be included in the Peer Down notiﬁcation.

 be included. The default value of "global"

MUST

MUST

Multiple TLVs of the same type can be repeated as part of the same message, for example, to
convey a ﬁltered view of a VRF. A BMP receiver should append multiple TLVs of the same type to a
set in order to support alternate or additional names for the same peer. If multiple strings are
included, their ordering

 be preserved when they are reported.

MUST

5.3.  Peer Down Notiﬁcation

The Peer Down notiﬁcation
The following Peer Down Information TLV type is deﬁned:

MUST

 use reason code 6. Following the reason is data in TLV format.

•

Type = 3: VRF/Table Name. The Information ﬁeld contains a UTF-8 string whose value
MUST
be equal to the value of the VRF or table name (e.g., RD instance name) being conveyed. The
string size
MUST

 be within the range of 1 to 255 bytes. The VRF/Table Name informational TLV

 be included if it was in the Peer Up.

MUST

Evens, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9069

BMP Loc-RIB

February 2022

5.4.  Route Monitoring

Route Monitoring messages are used for initial synchronization of the Loc-RIB. They are also
used to convey incremental Loc-RIB changes.

As described in
is a BGP Update PDU."

Section 4.6 of [RFC7854]

5.4.1.  ASN Encoding

, "Following the common BMP header and per-peer header

Loc-RIB Route Monitoring messages
sent OPEN message (Section 5.2)

MUST
 capability.

 use a 4-byte ASN encoding as indicated in the

Peer Up

5.4.2.  Granularity

State compression and throttling
Route Monitoring messages that are transmitted to BMP receivers. With state compression, only
the ﬁnal resultant updates are sent.

 be used by a BMP sender to reduce the amount of

SHOULD

For example, preﬁx 192.0.2.0/24 is updated in the Loc-RIB 5 times within 1 second. State
compression of BMP Route Monitoring messages results in only the ﬁnal change being
transmitted. The other 4 changes are suppressed because they fall within the compression
interval. If no compression was being used, all 5 updates would have been transmitted.

A BMP receiver should expect that the granularity of Loc-RIB Route Monitoring can vary
depending on the BMP sender implementation.

5.5.  Route Mirroring

Section 4.7 of [RFC7854]
This is not applicable to Loc-RIB as PDUs are originated by the router. Any received Route
Mirroring messages

 deﬁnes Route Mirroring for verbatim duplication of messages received.

 be ignored.

SHOULD

5.6.  Statistics Report

Not all Stat Types are relevant to Loc-RIB. The Stat Types that are relevant are listed below:

•

Stat Type = 8: (64-bit Gauge) Number of routes in Loc-RIB.

•

Stat Type = 10: Number of routes in per-AFI/SAFI Loc-RIB. The value is structured as: 2-byte
AFI, 1-byte SAFI, followed by a 64-bit Gauge.

Evens, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9069

BMP Loc-RIB

February 2022

6.  Other Considerations

6.1.  Loc-RIB Implementation

There are several methods for a BGP speaker to implement Loc-RIB eﬃciently. In all methods, the
implementation emulates a peer with Peer Up and Down messages to convey capabilities as well
as Route Monitor messages to convey Loc-RIB. In this sense, the peer that conveys the Loc-RIB is
a locally emulated peer.

6.1.1.  Multiple Loc-RIB Peers

MUST

 be at least one emulated peer for each Loc-RIB instance, such as with VRFs. The BMP

There
receiver identiﬁes the Loc-RIB by the peer header distinguisher and BGP ID. The BMP receiver uses
the VRF/Table Name from the Peer Up information to associate a name with the Loc-RIB.

In some implementations, it might be required to have more than one emulated peer for Loc-RIB
to convey diﬀerent address families for the same Loc-RIB. In this case, the peer distinguisher and
BGP ID should be the same since they represent the same Loc-RIB instance. Each emulated peer
 send a Peer Up with the OPEN message indicating the address family capabilities.
instance
A BMP receiver
family.

 process these capabilities to know which peer belongs to which address

MUST

MUST

6.1.2.  Filtering Loc-RIB to BMP Receivers

There may be use cases where BMP receivers should only receive speciﬁc routes from Loc-RIB. For
example, IPv4 unicast routes may include internal BGP (IBGP), external BGP (EBGP), and IGP, but
only routes from EBGP should be sent to the BMP receiver. Alternatively, it may be that only IBGP
and EBGP should be sent and IGP redistributed routes excluded. In these cases where the Loc-RIB
is ﬁltered, the F ﬂag is set to 1 to indicate to the BMP receiver that the Loc-RIB is ﬁltered. If
multiple ﬁlters are associated with the same Loc-RIB, a table name
a BMP receiver to make the right associations.

 be used in order to allow

MUST

6.1.3.  Changes to Existing BMP Sessions

In case of any change that results in the alteration of behavior of an existing BMP session, i.e.,
changes to ﬁltering and table names, the session
 be bounced with a Peer Down / Peer Up
sequence.

MUST

7.  Security Considerations

The same considerations as in
of this protocol
monitoring devices. It is also believed that this document does not introduce any additional
security considerations.

 require that sessions only be established with authorized and trusted

 apply to this document. Implementations

Section 11 of [RFC7854]

SHOULD

Evens, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9069

BMP Loc-RIB

February 2022

8.  IANA Considerations

IANA has assigned new parameters to the "BGP Monitoring Protocol (BMP) Parameters" registry.

8.1.  BMP Peer Type

IANA has registered the following new peer type (Section 4.1):

Peer Type

Description

3

Loc-RIB Instance Peer

Table 1: BMP Peer Type

8.2.  BMP Loc-RIB Instance Peer Flags

IANA has renamed "BMP Peer Flags" to "BMP Peer Flags for Peer Types 0 through 2" and created a
new registry named "BMP Peer Flags for Loc-RIB Instance Peer Type 3".

This document deﬁnes peer ﬂags that are speciﬁc to the Loc-RIB Instance Peer Type. IANA has
registered the following in the "BMP Peer Flags for Loc-RIB Instance Peer Type 3" registry:

Flag

0

Description

F ﬂag

Table 2: Loc-RIB Instance Peer Type

As noted in Section 4.2, the F ﬂag indicates that the Loc-RIB is ﬁltered. This indicates that the Loc-
RIB does not represent the complete routing table.

Flags 1 through 7 are unassigned. The registration procedure for the registry is Standards Action.

8.3.  Peer Up Information TLV

IANA has renamed the "BMP Initiation Message TLVs" registry to "BMP Initiation and Peer Up
Information TLVs".
same information TLVs. This document deﬁnes the following new BMP Peer Up Information TLV
type (Section 5.2.1):

 indicates that both Initiation and Peer Up share the

Section 4.4 of [RFC7854]

Type

Description

3

VRF/Table Name

Table 3: BMP Peer Up Information TLV
Type

Evens, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9069

BMP Loc-RIB

February 2022

The Information ﬁeld contains a UTF-8 string whose value
or table name (e.g., RD instance name) being conveyed. The string size
of 1 to 255 bytes.

MUST

 be equal to the value of the VRF
 be within the range

MUST

8.4.  Peer Down Reason Code

IANA has registered the following new BMP Peer Down reason code (Section 5.3):

Type Description

6

Local system closed, TLV data follows

Table 4: BMP Peer Down Reason Code

8.5.  Deprecated Entries

Per this document, IANA has marked the F Flag entry in the "BMP Peer Flags for Peer Types 0
through 2" registry as "deprecated".

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC4271]

[RFC7854]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
,
.
rfc2119>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,
Rekhter, Y., Ed. Li, T., Ed.
,
RFC 4271 DOI 10.17487/RFC4271
.
rfc4271>

, and

,
S. Hares, Ed. "A Border Gateway Protocol 4 (BGP-4)"

,

, January 2006,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,
Scudder, J., Ed. Fernando, R.
,
RFC 7854 DOI 10.17487/RFC7854
.
rfc7854>

, and

,
, June 2016,

,
S. Stuart "BGP Monitoring Protocol (BMP)"
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,
,
Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
.
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

9.2.  Informative References

[RFC7911]

,

Walton, D. Retana, A. Chen, E.
in BGP" RFC 7911 DOI 10.17487/RFC7911
info/rfc7911>
.

, and

,

,

,

J. Scudder "Advertisement of Multiple Paths
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

,
, July 2016,

Evens, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9069

BMP Loc-RIB

February 2022

Acknowledgements

The authors would like to thank
input.

John Scudder Jeﬀ Haas

,

, and

Mukul Srivastava

 for their valuable

Authors' Addresses

Tim Evens
Cisco Systems
2901 Third Avenue, Suite 600
Seattle WA 98121
United States of America
Email:

 tievens@cisco.com

,

Serpil Bayraktar
Menlo Security
800 W El Camino Real, Suite 250
Mountain View CA 94040
,
United States of America
Email:

 serpil.bayraktar@menlosecurity.com

Manish Bhardwaj
Cisco Systems
3700 Cisco Way
San Jose CA 95134
,
United States of America
Email:

 manbhard@cisco.com

Paolo Lucente
NTT Communications
Siriusdreef 70-72
2132 Hoofddorp
Netherlands
Email:

 paolo@ntt.net

Evens, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

