Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9762
4861, 4862
Standards Track
June 2025
2070-1721
L. Colitti
Google

J. Linkova
Google

X. Ma, Ed.
Google

D. Lamparter
NetDEF, Inc.

RFC 9762
Using Router Advertisements to Signal the
Availability of DHCPv6 Prefix Delegation to Clients

Abstract

This document defines the P flag in the Prefix Information Option (PIO) of IPv6 Router
Advertisements (RAs). The flag is used to indicate that the network prefers that clients use the
deployment model in RFC 9663 instead of using individual addresses in the on-link prefix
assigned using Stateless Address Autoconfiguration (SLAAC) or DHCPv6 address assignment.

This document updates RFC 4862 to indicate that the Autonomous flag in a PIO needs to be
ignored if the PIO has the P flag set. It also updates RFC 4861 to specify that the P flag indicates
DHCPv6 prefix delegation support for clients.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9762
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Colitti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9762

PIO P Flag

June 2025

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Colitti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9762

PIO P Flag

June 2025

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Requirements Language

3.  Terminology

4.  Rationale

5.  P Flag Overview

6.  Router Behavior

7.  Client Behavior

7.1.  Processing the P Flag

7.2.  Using Delegated Prefix(es)

7.3.  Absence of PIOs with the P Bit Set

7.4.  On-Link Communication

7.5.  Source Address Selection

8.  Multihoming

9.  Modifications to RFC-Mandated Behavior

9.1.  Changes to RFC 4861

9.2.  Changes to RFC 4862

10. Security Considerations

11. Privacy Considerations

12. IANA Considerations

13. References

13.1.  Normative References

13.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

4

4

4

5

6

6

7

7

8

8

8

9

9

9

9

9

10

11

11

12

12

12

13

13

Colitti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9762

PIO P Flag

June 2025

1.  Introduction

 documents an IPv6 address assignment model where IPv6 devices obtain dedicated

[RFC9663]
prefixes from the network via DHCPv6 prefix delegation (DHCPv6-PD)
provides devices with a large IPv6 address space they can use to create addresses for
communication, individually number virtual machines (VMs) or containers, or extend the
network to downstream devices. It also provides scalability benefits on large networks because
network infrastructure devices do not need to maintain per-address state, such as IPv6 neighbor
cache, Source Address Validation Improvement (SAVI)
Local Area Network (VXLAN)

 mappings, Virtual eXtensible

. This model

 routes, etc.

[RFC8415]

[RFC7348]

[RFC7039]

On networks with fewer devices, however, this model may not be appropriate, because scaling to
support multiple individual IPv6 addresses per device is less of a concern. Also, many home
networks currently offer prefix delegation but assume that a limited number of specialized
devices and/or applications will require delegated prefixes and thus do not allocate enough
address space to offer prefixes to every device that connects to the network. For example, if
clients assume the
 deployment model on a home network that only receives a /60
from the ISP and each client obtains a /64 prefix, then the network will run out of prefixes after
15 devices have been connected.

[RFC9663]

Therefore, to safely roll out the support of the deployment model defined in
client side, it is necessary to have a mechanism for the network to signal to the client which
address assignment method is preferred.

[RFC9663]

 on the

2.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Terminology

Node:

a device that implements IPv6

[RFC8200]

Host:

any node that is not a router

[RFC8200]

Client:

a node that connects to a network and acquires addresses. The node may wish to obtain

addresses for its own use, or it may be a router that wishes to extend the network to its
physical or virtual subsystems, or both. It may be either a host or a router as defined by
[RFC8200]

.

DHCPv6-PD:
clients.

DHCPv6 Prefix Delegation

[RFC8415]

; a mechanism to delegate IPv6 prefixes to

Colitti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9762

PIO P Flag

June 2025

DHCPv6 IA_NA:

DHCPv6 IA_PD:

Identity Association for Non-temporary Addresses (

Section 21.4 of [RFC8415]

)

Identity Association for Prefix Delegation (

Section 21.21 of [RFC8415]

)

ND:

Neighbor Discovery

[RFC4861]

On-link address:

an address that is assigned to an interface on a specified link

[RFC4861]

On-link prefix:

a prefix that is assigned to a specified link

Off-link:

the opposite of "on-link" (see

[RFC4861]

)

PIO:

Prefix Information Option

[RFC4862]

RA:

Router Advertisement

[RFC4861]

SLAAC:

Stateless Address Autoconfiguration

[RFC4862]

4.  Rationale

The network administrator might want to indicate to clients that requesting a prefix via DHCPv6-
PD and using that prefix for address assignment (see
) should be preferred over using
individual addresses from the on-link prefix. The information is passed to the client via a P flag
in the PIO. The reasons for it being a PIO flag are as follows:

[RFC9663]

•

The information must be contained in the RA because it must be available to the client
before it decides to form IPv6 addresses from the PIO prefix using SLAAC. Otherwise, the
client might use SLAAC to form IPv6 addresses from the PIO provided and start using them,
even if a unique per-client prefix is available via DHCPv6-PD. Forming addresses via SLAAC
is suboptimal because if the client later acquires a prefix using DHCPv6-PD, it can either 1)
use both the prefix and SLAAC addresses, reducing the scalability benefits of using DHCPv6-
PD, or 2) remove the SLAAC addresses, which would be disruptive for applications that are
using them.

•

This information is specific to the particular prefix being announced. For example, a
network administrator might want clients to assign global addresses from delegated
prefixes but form Unique Local IPv6 Unicast Addresses
 from another PIO in the
RA using SLAAC. Also, in a multihoming situation, one upstream network might choose to
assign prefixes via prefix delegation and another via PIOs.

[RFC4193]

Note that setting the P flag in a PIO expresses the network operator's preference that clients
should attempt using DHCPv6-PD instead of performing individual address configuration on the
prefix. For clients that honor this preference by requesting prefix delegation, the actual
delegated prefix will necessarily be a prefix different from the one from the PIO.

Colitti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9762

PIO P Flag

June 2025

5.  P Flag Overview

. The presence of a PIO with the P flag set indicates that the network prefers that

The P flag (also called the DHCPv6-PD Preferred Flag) is a 1-bit PIO flag, located after the R flag
[RFC6275]
clients use prefix delegation instead of acquiring individual addresses via SLAAC or DHCPv6
address assignment. This implies that the network has a DHCPv6 server capable of making
DHCPv6 prefix delegations to every device on the network, as described in

[RFC9663]
.

Figure 1 shows the resulting format of the PIO.

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|     Type      |    Length     | Prefix Length |L|A|R|P| Rsvd1 |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                         Valid Lifetime                        |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                       Preferred Lifetime                      |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                           Reserved2                           |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                                                               |
+                                                               +
|                                                               |
+                            Prefix                             +
|                                                               |
+                                                               +
|                                                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 1

The P flag is independent of the value of the M and O flags in the RA. If the network desires to
delegate prefixes to devices that support DHCPv6 prefix delegation but do not support the P flag,
it
SHOULD
(CE) routers
set to zero.

 also set the M or O bits in the RA to 1, because some devices, such as Customer Edge

, might not initiate DHCPv6 prefix delegation if both the M and O bits are

[RFC7084]

6.  Router Behavior

SHOULD

Routers
administrator, and
SHOULD
advertised in a PIO. Routers
particular, enabling or disabling the P flag
value set by the router.

 set the P flag to zero by default, unless explicitly configured by the

 allow the operator to set the P flag value for any given prefix
MUST

 allow the P flag to be configured separately from the A flag. In

MUST NOT

 trigger automatic changes in the A flag

Colitti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9762

PIO P Flag

June 2025

7.  Client Behavior

7.1.  Processing the P Flag

This specification only applies to clients that support DHCPv6 prefix delegation. Clients that do
not support DHCPv6 prefix delegation
local prefixes, and any PIO containing the link-local prefix
Section 5.5.3 of [RFC4862]

. In the following text, all prefixes are assumed not to be link-local.

 ignore the P flag. The P flag is meaningless for link-

 be ignored as specified in

MUST

MUST

For each interface, the client
 keep a list of every prefix that was received from a PIO with
the P flag set and currently has a non-zero preferred lifetime. The list affects the behavior of the
DHCPv6 client as follows:

MUST

•

When a prefix's preferred lifetime becomes zero, either because the preferred lifetime
expires or because the client receives a PIO for the prefix with a zero preferred lifetime, the
prefix

 be removed from the list.

MUST

•

When the length of the list increases to one, the client
DHCPv6 prefix delegation unless it is already doing so.

SHOULD

 start requesting prefixes via

•

When the length of the list decreases to zero, the client
 stop requesting or renewing
prefixes via DHCPv6 prefix delegation if it has no other reason to do so. The lifetimes of any
prefixes already obtained via DHCPv6 are unaffected.

SHOULD

•

If the client has already received delegated prefix(es) from one or more servers, then any
time one or more prefix(es) are added to or removed from the list, the client
this to be a change in configuration information as described in
 perform a REBIND, unless the list is now empty. This is in
In that case, the client
addition to performing a REBIND in the other cases required by that section. Issuing a
REBIND allows the client to obtain new prefixes if necessary, for example, when the
network is being renumbered. It also refreshes the state related to the delegated prefix(es).

 consider
Section 18.2.12 of [RFC8415]
.

MUST

MUST

When a client requests a prefix via DHCPv6-PD, it
of [RFC8415]

 use the prefix length hint (
) to request a prefix that is short enough to form addresses via SLAAC.

MUST

Section 18.2.4

In order to achieve the scalability benefits of using DHCPv6-PD, the client
addresses from the delegated prefix instead of using individual addresses in the on-link
prefix(es). Therefore, when the client requests a prefix using DHCPv6-PD, the client
use SLAAC to obtain IPv6 addresses from PIOs with the P and A bits set. Similarly, if all PIOs
processed by the client have the P bit set, the client
addresses from DHCPv6, i.e., it
[RFC8415]
. The client

 continue to use addresses that are already configured.

 include any IA_NA options in Solicit messages

 request individual IPv6

SHOULD NOT

SHOULD NOT

SHOULD

MAY

 prefer to form

SHOULD NOT

 choose to disable further processing of the P flag on that interface, allowing the client to fall

If the client does not obtain any suitable prefixes via DHCPv6-PD that are suitable for SLAAC, it
MAY
back to other address assignment mechanisms, such as forming addresses via SLAAC (if the PIO
has the A flag set to 1) and/or requesting individual addresses via DHCPv6.

Colitti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9762

PIO P Flag

June 2025

7.2.  Using Delegated Prefix(es)

If the delegated prefix is too long to be used for SLAAC, the client
[RFC9663]
shorter than required for SLAAC, the client
prefixes suitable for SLAAC, and use the prefixes as described below.

SHOULD

 requires the network to provide a SLAAC-suitable prefix to clients. If the prefix is

 accept it, allocate one or more longer

MUST

 ignore it, as

Section 7 of

For every accepted prefix:

•

The client

MAY

 form as many IPv6 addresses from the prefix as it chooses.

•

The client
MAY
or containers.

 use the prefix to provide IPv6 addresses to internal components such as VMs

•

MAY

 use the prefix to allow devices directly connected to it to obtain IPv6

The client
addresses. For example, the client
an RA containing a PIO for the prefix on that interface. That interface
interface the prefix is obtained from. If the client advertises the prefix on an interface and it
has formed addresses from the prefix, then it
assigned to that interface for the purposes of Neighbor Discovery and Duplicate Address
Detection.

 route traffic for that prefix to an interface and send

 act as though the addresses were

MUST NOT

 be the

MUST

MAY

MUST NOT

 send or forward packets with destination addresses within a delegated

The client
prefix to the interface that it obtained the prefix on, as this can cause a routing loop. This
problem will not occur if the client has assigned the prefix to another interface. Another way the
client can prevent this problem is to add to its routing table a high-metric discard route for the
delegated prefix.

7.3.  Absence of PIOs with the P Bit Set

The P bit is purely a positive indicator, telling nodes that DHCPv6 prefix delegation is available
and the network prefers that nodes use it, even if they do not have any other reason to run a
prefix delegation client. The absence of any PIOs with the P bit does not carry any kind of signal
to the opposite and
nodes that run DHCPv6-PD due to explicit configuration or by default (e.g., to extend the
 disable DHCPv6-PD on the absence of PIOs with the P bit set. A very
network)
common example of this are CE routers as described by

 be processed to mean that DHCPv6-PD is absent. In particular,

[RFC7084]
.

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

7.4.  On-Link Communication

When the network delegates unique prefixes to clients, each client will consider other clients'
destination addresses to be off-link, because those addresses are from the delegated prefixes and
are not within any on-link prefix. When a client sends traffic to another client, packets will
initially be sent to the default router. The router may respond with an ICMPv6 redirect message
Section 4.5 of [RFC4861]
(
directly from device to device. Therefore, hosts supporting the P flag

). If the client receives and accepts the redirect, then traffic can flow

 process redirects

SHOULD

Colitti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9762

PIO P Flag

June 2025

unless configured otherwise. Hosts that do not process ICMPv6 redirects, and routers that do not
act on ICMPv6 redirects, may experience higher latency while communicating to prefixes
delegated to other clients on the same link.

7.5.  Source Address Selection

For the purpose of source address selection
delegated prefix, it
which the prefix was received. This includes placing them in the candidate set and associating
them with the outgoing interface when implementing Rule 5 of the source address selection
algorithm

 treat those addresses as if they were assigned to the interface on

, if the host creates any addresses from a

[RFC6724]
.

[RFC6724]

SHOULD

8.  Multihoming

 associate each prefix with the link-local address of the DHCPv6 server or relay from

In multi-prefix multihoming, the host generally needs to associate the prefix with the router that
advertised it (for example, see Rule 5.5 in
SHOULD
which it received the REPLY packet. When receiving multiple REPLYs carrying the same prefix
from distinct link-local addresses, the host
SHOULD
addresses. This can commonly happen in networks with redundant routers and DHCPv6 servers
or relays.

). If the host supports Rule 5.5, then it

 associate that prefix with all of these

[RFC6724]

9.  Modifications to RFC-Mandated Behavior

9.1.  Changes to RFC 4861

This document makes the following changes to

Section 4.2 of [RFC4861]
:

OLD TEXT:

Note: If neither M nor O flags are set, this indicates that no information is available via
DHCPv6.

NEW TEXT:

Note: If the M, O, or P (RFC 9762) flags are not set, this indicates that no information is
available via DHCPv6.

9.2.  Changes to RFC 4862

This document makes the following changes to

Section 5.5.3 of [RFC4862]
:

OLD TEXT:

Colitti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9762

PIO P Flag

June 2025

For each Prefix-Information option in the Router Advertisement:

a)

b)

c)

d)

If the Autonomous flag is not set, silently ignore the Prefix Information option.

If the prefix is the link-local prefix, silently ignore the Prefix Information option.

If the preferred lifetime is greater than the valid lifetime, silently ignore the
Prefix Information option. A node
this case.

 wish to log a system management error in

MAY

If the prefix advertised is not equal to the prefix of an address configured by
stateless autoconfiguration already in the list of addresses associated with the
interface (where "equal" means the two prefix lengths are the same and the first
prefix-length bits of the prefixes are identical), and if the Valid Lifetime is not 0,
form an address (and add it to the list) by combining the advertised prefix with
an interface identifier of the link as follows:

NEW TEXT:

For each Prefix Information Option in the Router Advertisement:

a)

b)

c)

d)

e)

If the prefix is the link-local prefix, silently ignore the Prefix Information Option.

If the P flag is set and the node implements RFC 9762, it
Autonomous flag as if it was unset and use prefix delegation to obtain addresses
as described in RFC 9762.

 treat the

SHOULD

If the Autonomous flag is not set, silently ignore the Prefix Information Option.

If the preferred lifetime is greater than the valid lifetime, silently ignore the
Prefix Information Option. A node
MAY
in this case.

 wish to log a system management error

If the prefix advertised is not equal to the prefix of an address configured by
stateless autoconfiguration already in the list of addresses associated with the
interface (where "equal" means the two prefix lengths are the same and the first
prefix-length bits of the prefixes are identical) and if the Valid Lifetime is not 0,
form an address (and add it to the list) by combining the advertised prefix with
an interface identifier of the link as follows:

10.  Security Considerations

The mechanism described in this document relies on the information provided in the RA and
therefore shares the same security model as SLAAC. If the network does not implement RA-
Guard
, an attacker might send RAs containing the PIO used by the network, set the P
flag to 1, and force hosts to ignore the A flag. In the absence of DHCPv6-PD infrastructure, hosts

[RFC6105]

Colitti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9762

PIO P Flag

June 2025

would either obtain no IPv6 addresses or, if they fall back to other IPv6 address assignment
mechanisms such as SLAAC and IA_NA, would experience delays in obtaining IPv6 addresses. If
the network does not support DHCPv6-Shield
DHCPv6 server, providing the host with invalid prefixes or other invalid configuration
information.

, the attacker could also run a rogue

[RFC7610]

The attacker might force hosts to oscillate between DHCPv6-PD and PIO-based SLAAC by sending
the same set of PIOs with and then without the P flag set. That would cause the clients to issue
REBIND requests, increasing the load on the DHCP infrastructure. However,
[RFC8415]

 requires that DHCPv6-PD clients rate-limit transmitted DHCPv6 messages.

Section 14.1 of

It should be noted that if the network allows rogue RAs to be sent, the attacker would be able to
disrupt hosts' connectivity anyway, so this document doesn't introduce any fundamentally new
security considerations.

Security considerations inherent to the PD-per-device model are documented in
[RFC9663]
.

Section 15 of

11.  Privacy Considerations

The privacy implications of implementing the P flag and using DHCPv6-PD to assign prefixes to
hosts are similar to the privacy implications of using DHCPv6 to assign individual addresses. If
the DHCPv6 infrastructure assigns the same prefix to the same client, then an observer might be
able to identify clients based on the highest 64 bits of the client's address. Those implications and
recommended countermeasures are discussed in

Section 13 of [RFC9663]
.

Implementing the P flag support on a host and receiving will enable DHCPv6 on that host if the
host receives an RA containing a PIO with the P bit set. Sending DHCPv6 packets may reveal
some minor additional information about the host, most prominently the hostname. This is not a
new concern and would apply for any network that uses DHCPv6 and sets the M flag in RAs.

No privacy considerations result from supporting the P flag on the sender side.

12.  IANA Considerations

IANA has made the following allocation in the "IPv6 Neighbor Discovery Prefix Information
Option Flags" registry

[RFC8425]
:

PIO Option Bit Description

Reference

3

Table 1

P - DHCPv6-PD Preferred Flag

RFC 9762

Colitti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9762

PIO P Flag

June 2025

13.  References

13.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC4861]

[RFC4862]

[RFC6724]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8415]

[RFC8425]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Narten, T. Nordmark, E. Simpson, W.
IP version 6 (IPv6)" RFC 4861 DOI 10.17487/RFC4861
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4861>

, and

,

,

.

H. Soliman "Neighbor Discovery for
,
<https://
, September 2007,

,

Thomson, S. Narten, T.
, and
Autoconfiguration" RFC 4862 DOI 10.17487/RFC4862
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4862>

T. Jinmei "IPv6 Stateless Address
,

,

,

.

, September 2007,

<https://

,

Thaler, D., Ed. Draves, R. Matsumoto, A.
T. Chown "Default Address
Selection for Internet Protocol Version 6 (IPv6)" RFC 6724 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6724

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6724>

, September 2012,

, and

,

,

,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Mrugalski, T. Siodelski, M. Volz, B. Yourtchenko, A. Richardson, M. Jiang, S.
,
Lemon, T.
, and
(DHCPv6)" RFC 8415 DOI 10.17487/RFC8415
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc8415>

T. Winters "Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol for IPv6

, November 2018,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

,

Troan, O. "IANA Considerations for IPv6 Neighbor Discovery Prefix
Information Option Flags" RFC 8425 DOI 10.17487/RFC8425
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8425>

,

,

.

, July 2018,

<https://

13.2.  Informative References

[RFC4193]

[RFC6105]

[RFC6275]

[RFC7039]

Hinden, R.
DOI 10.17487/RFC4193

B. Haberman "Unique Local IPv6 Unicast Addresses" RFC 4193
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4193>
.

,
, October 2005,

 and

,

Levy-Abegnoli, E. Van de Velde, G. Popoviciu, C.
Advertisement Guard" RFC 6105 DOI 10.17487/RFC6105
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6105>

, and

,

,

.

,

,

J. Mohacsi "IPv6 Router

,
, February 2011,

Perkins, C., Ed. Johnson, D.
DOI 10.17487/RFC6275

,

, July 2011,

, and

,

J. Arkko "Mobility Support in IPv6" RFC 6275
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6275>

,

.

,

,

,

Wu, J. Bi, J. Bagnulo, M. Baker, F.
, and
Improvement (SAVI) Framework" RFC 7039 DOI 10.17487/RFC7039
,
2013,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7039>

,

.

,

,

C. Vogt, Ed. "Source Address Validation

, October

Colitti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9762

PIO P Flag

June 2025

[RFC7084]

[RFC7348]

[RFC7610]

[RFC8200]

[RFC9663]

,

Singh, H. Beebee, W. Donley, C.
Customer Edge Routers" RFC 7084 DOI 10.17487/RFC7084
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7084>

B. Stark "Basic Requirements for IPv6
, November 2013,

, and
,

,

.

,

,

,

,

,

, and

Mahalingam, M. Dutt, D. Duda, K. Agarwal, P. Kreeger, L. Sridhar, T. Bursell,
,
M.
C. Wright "Virtual eXtensible Local Area Network (VXLAN): A
Framework for Overlaying Virtualized Layer 2 Networks over Layer 3
Networks" RFC 7348 DOI 10.17487/RFC7348
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc7348>

<https://www.rfc-

, August 2014,

,

.

,

,

Gont, F. Liu, W.
,
DHCPv6 Servers" BCP 199 RFC 7610 DOI 10.17487/RFC7610
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7610>

, and
,

,
,

,

.

G. Van de Velde "DHCPv6-Shield: Protecting against Rogue

, August 2015,

Deering, S.
86 RFC 8200 DOI 10.17487/RFC8200
rfc8200>

 and
,

,

.

R. Hinden "Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6) Specification" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, July 2017,

,

,

,

, and

Colitti, L. Linkova, J., Ed.
(DHCPv6-PD) to Allocate Unique IPv6 Prefixes per Client in Large Broadcast
Networks" RFC 9663 DOI 10.17487/RFC9663
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc9663>

X. Ma, Ed. "Using DHCPv6 Prefix Delegation

, October 2024,

<https://www.rfc-

,

.

Acknowledgements

,

,

Nick Buraglio Brian Carpenter Tim Chown David Farmer Fernando Gont Susan

Thanks to
,
Hares Mahesh Jethanandani Suresh Krishnan Ted Lemon Andrew McGregor Tomek
,
Mrugalski Erik Nordmark Michael Richardson Patrick Rohr John Scudder Ole Trøan Dirk Von
,
Hugo Éric Vyncke

 for the discussions, reviews, input, and contributions.

Timothy Winters

 and

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Authors' Addresses

Lorenzo Colitti
Google
Shibuya 3-21-3
Japan
Email:

,

lorenzo@google.com

Jen Linkova
Google
1 Darling Island Rd
Pyrmont NSW 2009
Australia
Email:

furry13@gmail.com, furry@google.com

Colitti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9762

PIO P Flag

June 2025

editor
)

Xiao Ma (
Google
Shibuya 3-21-3
Japan
Email:

,

xiaom@google.com

David 'equinox' Lamparter
NetDEF, Inc.
04229 Leipzig
Germany
Email:

equinox@diac24.net, equinox@opensourcerouting.org

Colitti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

