Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9101
Standards Track
August 2021
2070-1721
N. Sakimura
NAT.Consulting

J. Bradley
Yubico

M. Jones
Microsoft

RFC 9101
The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework: JWT-
Secured Authorization Request (JAR)

Abstract

The authorization request in OAuth 2.0 described in RFC 6749 utilizes query parameter
serialization, which means that authorization request parameters are encoded in the URI of the
request and sent through user agents such as web browsers. While it is easy to implement, it
means that a) the communication through the user agents is not integrity protected and thus, the
parameters can be tainted, b) the source of the communication is not authenticated, and c) the
communication through the user agents can be monitored. Because of these weaknesses, several
attacks to the protocol have now been put forward.

This document introduces the ability to send request parameters in a JSON Web Token (JWT)
instead, which allows the request to be signed with JSON Web Signature (JWS) and encrypted
with JSON Web Encryption (JWE) so that the integrity, source authentication, and conﬁdentiality
properties of the authorization request are attained. The request can be sent by value or by
reference.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9101

.

Sakimura, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9101

OAuth JAR

August 2021

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

2.  Terminology

2.1.  Request Object

2.2.  Request Object URI

3.  Symbols and Abbreviated Terms

4.  Request Object

5.  Authorization Request

5.1.  Passing a Request Object by Value

5.2.  Passing a Request Object by Reference

5.2.1.  URI Referencing the Request Object

5.2.2.  Request Using the "request_uri" Request Parameter

5.2.3.  Authorization Server Fetches Request Object

6.  Validating JWT-Based Requests

6.1.  JWE Encrypted Request Object

6.2.  JWS-Signed Request Object

6.3.  Request Parameter Assembly and Validation

7.  Authorization Server Response

8.  TLS Requirements

Sakimura, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9101

OAuth JAR

August 2021

9.  IANA Considerations

9.1.  OAuth Parameters Registration

9.2.  OAuth Authorization Server Metadata Registry

9.3.  OAuth Dynamic Client Registration Metadata Registry

9.4.  Media Type Registration

9.4.1.  Registry Contents

10. Security Considerations

10.1.  Choice of Algorithms

10.2.  Request Source Authentication

10.3.  Explicit Endpoints

10.4.  Risks Associated with request_uri

10.4.1.  DDoS Attack on the Authorization Server

10.4.2.  Request URI Rewrite

10.5.  Downgrade Attack

10.6.  TLS Security Considerations

10.7.  Parameter Mismatches

10.8.  Cross-JWT Confusion

11. Privacy Considerations

11.1.  Collection Limitation

11.2.  Disclosure Limitation

11.2.1.  Request Disclosure

11.2.2.  Tracking Using Request Object URI

12. References

12.1.  Normative References

12.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

Sakimura, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9101

OAuth JAR

August 2021

1.  Introduction

The authorization request in
typically sent through user agents such as web browsers.

OAuth 2.0 [RFC6749]

 utilizes query parameter serialization and is

For example, the parameters response_type, client_id, state, and redirect_uri are encoded
in the URI of the request:

    GET /authorize?response_type=code&client_id=s6BhdRkqt3&state=xyz
    &redirect_uri=https%3A%2F%2Fclient%2Eexample%2Ecom%2Fcb HTTP/1.1
    Host: server.example.com

While it is easy to implement, the encoding in the URI does not allow application-layer security to
be used to provide conﬁdentiality and integrity protection. While TLS is used to oﬀer
communication security between the client and the user agent as well as the user agent and the
authorization server, TLS sessions are terminated in the user agent. In addition, TLS sessions
may be terminated prematurely at some middlebox (such as a load balancer).

As a result, the authorization request of

[RFC6749]

 has shortcomings in that:

(a)

(b)

(c)

the communication through the user agents is not integrity protected, and thus, the
parameters can be tainted (integrity protection failure);

the source of the communication is not authenticated (source authentication failure);

the communication through the user agents can be monitored (containment/
conﬁdentiality failure).

Due to these inherent weaknesses, several attacks against the protocol, such as redirection URI
rewriting, have been identiﬁed.

The use of application-layer security mitigates these issues.

The use of application-layer security allows requests to be prepared by a trusted third party so
that a client application cannot request more permissions than previously agreed upon.

Furthermore, passing the request by reference allows the reduction of over-the-wire overhead.

The

JWT [RFC7519]

 encoding has been chosen because of:

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

its close relationship with JSON, which is used as OAuth's response format

its developer friendliness due to its textual nature

its relative compactness compared to XML

its development status as a Proposed Standard, along with the associated signing and
encryption methods

[RFC7515] [RFC7516]

Sakimura, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9101

OAuth JAR

August 2021

(5)

the relative ease of JWS and JWE compared to XML Signature and Encryption.

OAuth 2.0 [RFC6749]

The parameters request and request_uri are introduced as additional authorization request
parameters for the
(JWT) [RFC7519]
 whose JWT Claims Set holds the JSON-encoded OAuth 2.0 authorization request
parameters. Note that, in contrast to RFC 7519, the elements of the Claims Set are encoded OAuth
request parameters
managed JSON Web Token Claims
request parameter is integrity protected and source authenticated using JWS.

, supplemented with only a few of the IANA-

, in particular, iss and aud. The JWT in the

 ﬂows. The request parameter is a

[IANA.OAuth.Parameters]

[IANA.JWT.Claims]

JSON Web Token

JWT [RFC7519]

The
parameter request_uri is used instead of request.

 can be passed to the authorization endpoint by reference, in which case the

JWT [RFC7519]

Using
advantages:

 as the request encoding instead of query parameters has several

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

Integrity protection. The request can be signed so that the integrity of the request can be
checked.

Source authentication. The request can be signed so that the signer can be authenticated.

Conﬁdentiality protection. The request can be encrypted so that end-to-end conﬁdentiality
can be provided even if the TLS connection is terminated at one point or another
(including at and before user agents).

Collection minimization. The request can be signed by a trusted third party attesting that
the authorization request is compliant with a certain policy. For example, a request can be
pre-examined by a trusted third party to conﬁrm that all the personal data requested is
strictly necessary to perform the process that the end user asked for; the request would
then be signed by that trusted third party. The authorization server then examines the
signature and shows the conformance status to the end user who would have some
assurance as to the legitimacy of the request when authorizing it. In some cases, it may
even be desirable to skip the authorization dialogue under such circumstances.

There are a few cases where request by reference is useful, such as:

1.

when it is desirable to reduce the size of a transmitted request. The use of application-layer
security increases the size of the request particularly when public-key cryptography is used.

2.

when the client does not want to do the application-level cryptography. The authorization
server may provide an endpoint to accept the authorization request through direct
communication with the client, so that the client is authenticated and the channel is TLS
protected.

This capability is in use by OpenID Connect

.
[OpenID.Core]

Sakimura, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9101

OAuth JAR

August 2021

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Terminology

For the purposes of this speciﬁcation, the following terms and deﬁnitions apply in addition to
JSON
what is deﬁned in
Web Encryption [RFC7516]

OAuth 2.0 Framework [RFC6749] JSON Web Signature [RFC7515]
,

, and

.

2.1.  Request Object

A Request Object is a
encoded OAuth 2.0 authorization request parameters.

JSON Web Token (JWT) [RFC7519]

 whose JWT Claims Set holds the JSON-

2.2.  Request Object URI

Request
, unless the URI was provided to the client by the same authorization server,

A Request Object URI is an absolute URI that references the set of parameters comprising an
OAuth 2.0 authorization request. The content of the resource referenced by the URI is a
Object (Section 2.1)
in which case the content is an implementation detail at the discretion of the authorization
server. The content being a Request Object is to ensure interoperability in cases where the
provider of the request_uri is a separate entity from the consumer, such as when a client
provides a URI referencing a Request Object stored on the client's backend service that is made
accessible via HTTPS. In the latter case, where the authorization server is both provider and
consumer of the URI, such as when it oﬀers an endpoint that provides a URI in exchange for a
Request Object, this interoperability concern does not apply.

3.  Symbols and Abbreviated Terms

The following abbreviations are common to this speciﬁcation.

JSON:

JavaScript Object Notation

JWT:

JSON Web Token

JWS:

JSON Web Signature

JWE:

JSON Web Encryption

URI:

Uniform Resource Identiﬁer

URL:

Uniform Resource Locator

Sakimura, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9101

OAuth JAR

August 2021

4.  Request Object

MUST

OAuth 2.0 [RFC6749]

Request Object (Section 2.1)

 is used to provide authorization request parameters for an OAuth

 contain all the parameters (including extension parameters)
 authorization request except the request and

A
2.0 authorization request. It
used to process the
request_uri parameters that are deﬁned in this document. The parameters are represented as
the JWT Claims of the object. Parameter names and string values
strings. Since Request Objects are handled across domains and potentially outside of a closed
ecosystem, per
. Numerical values
[RFC3629]
include any extension parameters. This
deﬁned in

. The JWT Claims Set is then signed or signed and encrypted.

 be encoded using UTF-8
MAY

 be included as JSON numbers. The Request Object

 object constitutes the JWT Claims Set

Section 8.1 of [RFC8259]

 be included as JSON

, these JSON strings

JSON [RFC8259]

JWT [RFC7519]

MUST

MUST

MUST

JSON Web Signature (JWS) [RFC7515]

To sign,
If signed, the Authorization Request Object
JWT [RFC7519]
(audience) as members with their semantics being the same as deﬁned in the
speciﬁcation. The value of aud should be the value of the authorization server (AS) issuer, as
deﬁned in

 contain the Claims iss (issuer) and aud

 is used. The result is a JWS-signed

RFC 8414 [RFC8414]

SHOULD

JWT [RFC7519]

.

.

JWE [RFC7516]

To encrypt,
JWT
Nested JWT, as deﬁned in

MUST

 be signed, then encrypted, as described in
[RFC7519]

.

 is used. When both signature and encryption are being applied, the

Section 11.2 of [RFC7519]

. The result is a

[RFC7591]

The client determines the algorithms used to sign and encrypt Request Objects. The algorithms
chosen need to be supported by both the client and the authorization server. The client can
inform the authorization server of the algorithms that it supports in its dynamic client
registration metadata
request_object_signing_alg, request_object_encryption_alg, and
request_object_encryption_enc. Likewise, the authorization server can inform the client of
, speciﬁcally, the
the algorithms that it supports in its authorization server metadata
metadata values request_object_signing_alg_values_supported,
request_object_encryption_alg_values_supported, and
request_object_encryption_enc_values_supported.

, speciﬁcally, the metadata values

[RFC8414]

The Request Object
described in Section 5.2. request and request_uri parameters
Objects.

MAY

 be sent by value, as described in Section 5.1, or by reference, as

MUST NOT

 be included in Request

Request Object (Section 2.1)

A
 application/oauth-authz-req
+jwt. Note that some existing deployments may alternatively be using the type application/
jwt.

 has the media type

[RFC2046]

Sakimura, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9101

OAuth JAR

August 2021

[RFC7515]
The following is an example of the Claims in a Request Object before base64url
encoding and signing. Note that it includes the extension parameters nonce and max_age.

  {
   "iss": "s6BhdRkqt3",
   "aud": "https://server.example.com",
   "response_type": "code id_token",
   "client_id": "s6BhdRkqt3",
   "redirect_uri": "https://client.example.org/cb",
   "scope": "openid",
   "state": "af0ifjsldkj",
   "nonce": "n-0S6_WzA2Mj",
   "max_age": 86400
  }

Signing it with the RS256 algorithm
wraps within values for display purposes only):

[RFC7518]

 results in this Request Object value (with line

  eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6ImsyYmRjIn0.ewogICAgImlzcyI6ICJzNkJoZF
  JrcXQzIiwKICAgICJhdWQiOiAiaHR0cHM6Ly9zZXJ2ZXIuZXhhbXBsZS5jb20iLAog
  ICAgInJlc3BvbnNlX3R5cGUiOiAiY29kZSBpZF90b2tlbiIsCiAgICAiY2xpZW50X2
  lkIjogInM2QmhkUmtxdDMiLAogICAgInJlZGlyZWN0X3VyaSI6ICJodHRwczovL2Ns
  aWVudC5leGFtcGxlLm9yZy9jYiIsCiAgICAic2NvcGUiOiAib3BlbmlkIiwKICAgIC
  JzdGF0ZSI6ICJhZjBpZmpzbGRraiIsCiAgICAibm9uY2UiOiAibi0wUzZfV3pBMk1q
  IiwKICAgICJtYXhfYWdlIjogODY0MDAKfQ.Nsxa_18VUElVaPjqW_ToI1yrEJ67BgK
  b5xsuZRVqzGkfKrOIX7BCx0biSxYGmjK9KJPctH1OC0iQJwXu5YVY-vnW0_PLJb1C2
  HG-ztVzcnKZC2gE4i0vgQcpkUOCpW3SEYXnyWnKzuKzqSb1wAZALo5f89B_p6QA6j6
  JwBSRvdVsDPdulW8lKxGTbH82czCaQ50rLAg3EYLYaCb4ik4I1zGXE4fvim9FIMs8O
  CMmzwIB5S-ujFfzwFjoyuPEV4hJnoVUmXR_W9typPf846lGwA8h9G9oNTIuX8Ft2jf
  pnZdFmLg3_wr3Wa5q3a-lfbgF3S9H_8nN3j1i7tLR_5Nz-g

The following RSA public key, represented in JSON Web Key (JWK) format, can be used to
validate the Request Object signature in this and subsequent Request Object examples (with line
wraps within values for display purposes only):

  {
   "kty":"RSA",
   "kid":"k2bdc",
   "n":"x5RbkAZkmpRxia65qRQ1wwSMSxQUnS7gcpVTV_cdHmfmG2ltd2yabEO9XadD8
        pJNZubINPpmgHh3J1aD9WRwS05ucmFq3CfFsluLt13_7oX5yDRSKX7poXmT_5
        ko8k4NJZPMAO8fPToDTH7kHYbONSE2FYa5GZ60CUsFhSonI-dcMDJ0Ary9lxI
        w5k2z4TAdARVWcS7sD07VhlMMshrwsPHBQgTatlkxyIHXbYdtak8fqvNAwr7O
        lVEvM_Ipf5OfmdB8Sd-wjzaBsyP4VhJKoi_qdgSzpC694XZeYPq45Sw-q51iF
        UlcOlTCI7z6jltUtnR6ySn6XDGFnzH5Fe5ypw",
   "e":"AQAB"
  }

Sakimura, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9101

OAuth JAR

August 2021

5.  Authorization Request

The client constructs the authorization request URI by adding the following parameters to the
query component of the authorization endpoint URI using the application/x-www-form-
urlencoded format:

request

 unless request_uri is speciﬁed. The

REQUIRED
authorization request parameters stated in
parameter is present in the authorization request, request_uri

Section 4 of [RFC6749]

 (OAuth 2.0). If this

MUST NOT

 be present.

Request Object (Section 2.1)

 that holds

request_uri

REQUIRED
that is the
stated in
request, request

 unless request is speciﬁed. The absolute URI, as deﬁned by
Request Object URI (Section 2.2)

 referencing the authorization request parameters
 (OAuth 2.0). If this parameter is present in the authorization

RFC 3986 [RFC3986]
,

Section 4 of [RFC6749]

MUST NOT

 be present.

client_id

REQUIRED OAuth 2.0 [RFC6749]
request_uri

Request Object's (Section 2.1)

 client_id. The value
 client_id.

.

MUST

 match the request or

The client directs the resource owner to the constructed URI using an HTTP redirection response
or by other means available to it via the user agent.

For example, the client directs the end user's user agent to make the following HTTPS request:

GET /authz?client_id=s6BhdRkqt3&request=eyJhbG..AlMGzw HTTP/1.1
Host: server.example.com

The value for the request parameter is abbreviated for brevity.

The Authorization Request Object

MUST

 be one of the following:

(a)

(b)

JWS signed

JWS signed and JWE encrypted

MAY

 send the parameters included in the Request Object duplicated in the query

The client
parameters as well for backward compatibility, etc. However, the authorization server
supporting this speciﬁcation

 only use the parameters included in the Request Object.

MUST

5.1.  Passing a Request Object by Value

The client sends the authorization request as a Request Object to the authorization endpoint as
the request parameter value.

Sakimura, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9101

OAuth JAR

August 2021

The following is an example of an authorization request using the request parameter (with line
wraps within values for display purposes only):

  https://server.example.com/authorize?client_id=s6BhdRkqt3&
    request=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6ImsyYmRjIn0.ewogICAgImlzcyI6
    ICJzNkJoZFJrcXQzIiwKICAgICJhdWQiOiAiaHR0cHM6Ly9zZXJ2ZXIuZXhhbXBs
    ZS5jb20iLAogICAgInJlc3BvbnNlX3R5cGUiOiAiY29kZSBpZF90b2tlbiIsCiAg
    ICAiY2xpZW50X2lkIjogInM2QmhkUmtxdDMiLAogICAgInJlZGlyZWN0X3VyaSI6
    ICJodHRwczovL2NsaWVudC5leGFtcGxlLm9yZy9jYiIsCiAgICAic2NvcGUiOiAi
    b3BlbmlkIiwKICAgICJzdGF0ZSI6ICJhZjBpZmpzbGRraiIsCiAgICAibm9uY2Ui
    OiAibi0wUzZfV3pBMk1qIiwKICAgICJtYXhfYWdlIjogODY0MDAKfQ.Nsxa_18VU
    ElVaPjqW_ToI1yrEJ67BgKb5xsuZRVqzGkfKrOIX7BCx0biSxYGmjK9KJPctH1OC
    0iQJwXu5YVY-vnW0_PLJb1C2HG-ztVzcnKZC2gE4i0vgQcpkUOCpW3SEYXnyWnKz
    uKzqSb1wAZALo5f89B_p6QA6j6JwBSRvdVsDPdulW8lKxGTbH82czCaQ50rLAg3E
    YLYaCb4ik4I1zGXE4fvim9FIMs8OCMmzwIB5S-ujFfzwFjoyuPEV4hJnoVUmXR_W
    9typPf846lGwA8h9G9oNTIuX8Ft2jfpnZdFmLg3_wr3Wa5q3a-lfbgF3S9H_8nN3
    j1i7tLR_5Nz-g

5.2.  Passing a Request Object by Reference

The request_uri authorization request parameter enables OAuth authorization requests to be
passed by reference rather than by value. This parameter is used identically to the request
parameter, except that the Request Object value is retrieved from the resource identiﬁed by the
speciﬁed URI rather than passed by value.

The entire Request URI
restriction:

SHOULD NOT

 exceed 512 ASCII characters. There are two reasons for this

1.

Many phones on the market as of this writing still do not accept large payloads. The
restriction is typically either 512 or 1024 ASCII characters.

2.

On a slow connection such as a 2G mobile connection, a large URL would cause a slow
response; therefore, the use of such is not advisable from the user-experience point of view.

The contents of the resource referenced by the request_uri
be reachable by the authorization server unless the URI was provided to the client by the
authorization server. In the ﬁrst case, the request_uri
Section 2.7.2 of [RFC7230]

 be a URN, as speciﬁed in

. In the second case, it

 be a Request Object and

 be an https URI, as speciﬁed in

.
[RFC8141]

MUST

MUST

MUST

MUST

Sakimura, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9101

OAuth JAR

August 2021

The following is an example of the contents of a Request Object resource that can be referenced
by a request_uri (with line wraps within values for display purposes only):

  eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6ImsyYmRjIn0.ewogICAgImlzcyI6ICJzNkJoZF
  JrcXQzIiwKICAgICJhdWQiOiAiaHR0cHM6Ly9zZXJ2ZXIuZXhhbXBsZS5jb20iLAog
  ICAgInJlc3BvbnNlX3R5cGUiOiAiY29kZSBpZF90b2tlbiIsCiAgICAiY2xpZW50X2
  lkIjogInM2QmhkUmtxdDMiLAogICAgInJlZGlyZWN0X3VyaSI6ICJodHRwczovL2Ns
  aWVudC5leGFtcGxlLm9yZy9jYiIsCiAgICAic2NvcGUiOiAib3BlbmlkIiwKICAgIC
  JzdGF0ZSI6ICJhZjBpZmpzbGRraiIsCiAgICAibm9uY2UiOiAibi0wUzZfV3pBMk1q
  IiwKICAgICJtYXhfYWdlIjogODY0MDAKfQ.Nsxa_18VUElVaPjqW_ToI1yrEJ67BgK
  b5xsuZRVqzGkfKrOIX7BCx0biSxYGmjK9KJPctH1OC0iQJwXu5YVY-vnW0_PLJb1C2
  HG-ztVzcnKZC2gE4i0vgQcpkUOCpW3SEYXnyWnKzuKzqSb1wAZALo5f89B_p6QA6j6
  JwBSRvdVsDPdulW8lKxGTbH82czCaQ50rLAg3EYLYaCb4ik4I1zGXE4fvim9FIMs8O
  CMmzwIB5S-ujFfzwFjoyuPEV4hJnoVUmXR_W9typPf846lGwA8h9G9oNTIuX8Ft2jf
  pnZdFmLg3_wr3Wa5q3a-lfbgF3S9H_8nN3j1i7tLR_5Nz-g

5.2.1.  URI Referencing the Request Object

The client stores the Request Object resource either locally or remotely at a URI the authorization
server can access. Such a facility may be provided by the authorization server or a trusted third
party. For example, the authorization server may provide a URL to which the client POSTs the
Request Object and obtains the Request URI. This URI is the Request Object URI, request_uri.

It is possible for the Request Object to include values that are to be revealed only to the
authorization server. As such, the request_uri
that the URI is not guessable if publicly retrievable. For the guidance, refer to
[RFC6819]
request_uri be removed after a reasonable timeout unless access control measures are taken.

 and "Good Practices for Capability URLs"

 have appropriate entropy for its lifetime so

Section 5.1.4.2.2 of

RECOMMENDED

[CapURLs]

 that the

. It is

MUST

The following is an example of a Request Object URI value (with line wraps within values for
display purposes only). In this example, a trusted third-party service hosts the Request Object.

  https://tfp.example.org/request.jwt/
    GkurKxf5T0Y-mnPFCHqWOMiZi4VS138cQO_V7PZHAdM

5.2.2.  Request Using the "request_uri" Request Parameter

The client sends the authorization request to the authorization endpoint.

The following is an example of an authorization request using the request_uri parameter (with
line wraps within values for display purposes only):

  https://server.example.com/authorize?
    client_id=s6BhdRkqt3
    &request_uri=https%3A%2F%2Ftfp.example.org%2Frequest.jwt
    %2FGkurKxf5T0Y-mnPFCHqWOMiZi4VS138cQO_V7PZHAdM

Sakimura, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9101

OAuth JAR

August 2021

5.2.3.  Authorization Server Fetches Request Object

Upon receipt of the Request, the authorization server
request_uri to retrieve the referenced Request Object unless the Request Object is stored in a
way so that the server can retrieve it through other mechanisms securely and parse it to recreate
the authorization request parameters.

 send an HTTP GET request to the

MUST

The following is an example of this fetch process. In this example, a trusted third-party service
hosts the Request Object.

GET /request.jwt/GkurKxf5T0Y-mnPFCHqWOMiZi4VS138cQO_V7PZHAdM HTTP/1.1
Host: tfp.example.org

The following is an example of the fetch response:

  HTTP/1.1 200 OK
  Date: Thu, 20 Aug 2020 23:52:39 GMT
  Server: Apache/2.4.43 (tfp.example.org)
  Content-type: application/oauth-authz-req+jwt
  Content-Length: 797
  Last-Modified: Wed, 19 Aug 2020 23:52:32 GMT

  eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6ImsyYmRjIn0.ewogICAgImlzcyI6ICJzNkJoZF
  JrcXQzIiwKICAgICJhdWQiOiAiaHR0cHM6Ly9zZXJ2ZXIuZXhhbXBsZS5jb20iLAog
  ICAgInJlc3BvbnNlX3R5cGUiOiAiY29kZSBpZF90b2tlbiIsCiAgICAiY2xpZW50X2
  lkIjogInM2QmhkUmtxdDMiLAogICAgInJlZGlyZWN0X3VyaSI6ICJodHRwczovL2Ns
  aWVudC5leGFtcGxlLm9yZy9jYiIsCiAgICAic2NvcGUiOiAib3BlbmlkIiwKICAgIC
  JzdGF0ZSI6ICJhZjBpZmpzbGRraiIsCiAgICAibm9uY2UiOiAibi0wUzZfV3pBMk1q
  IiwKICAgICJtYXhfYWdlIjogODY0MDAKfQ.Nsxa_18VUElVaPjqW_ToI1yrEJ67BgK
  b5xsuZRVqzGkfKrOIX7BCx0biSxYGmjK9KJPctH1OC0iQJwXu5YVY-vnW0_PLJb1C2
  HG-ztVzcnKZC2gE4i0vgQcpkUOCpW3SEYXnyWnKzuKzqSb1wAZALo5f89B_p6QA6j6
  JwBSRvdVsDPdulW8lKxGTbH82czCaQ50rLAg3EYLYaCb4ik4I1zGXE4fvim9FIMs8O
  CMmzwIB5S-ujFfzwFjoyuPEV4hJnoVUmXR_W9typPf846lGwA8h9G9oNTIuX8Ft2jf
  pnZdFmLg3_wr3Wa5q3a-lfbgF3S9H_8nN3j1i7tLR_5Nz-g

6.  Validating JWT-Based Requests

6.1.  JWE Encrypted Request Object

If the Request Object is encrypted, the authorization server
with the

JSON Web Encryption [RFC7516]

 speciﬁcation.

MUST

 decrypt the JWT in accordance

The result is a signed Request Object.

If decryption fails, the authorization server
the client in response to the authorization request.

MUST

 return an invalid_request_object error to

Sakimura, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9101

OAuth JAR

August 2021

6.2.  JWS-Signed Request Object

MUST

 validate the signature of the JWS-signed

The authorization server
Object. If a kid Header Parameter is present, the key identiﬁed
be a key associated with the client. The signature
the client and the algorithm speciﬁed in the alg Header Parameter. Algorithm veriﬁcation
be performed, as speciﬁed in Sections 3.1 and 3.2 of

MUST
 be validated using a key associated with
MUST

 Request
 be the key used and

[RFC8725]
.

[RFC7515]

MUST

MUST

If the key is not associated with the client or if signature validation fails, the authorization server
 return an invalid_request_object error to the client in response to the authorization
MUST
request.

6.3.  Request Parameter Assembly and Validation

MUST

The authorization server
Request Object value. The authorization server
Object, even if the same parameter is provided in the query parameter. The client ID values in
the client_id request parameter and in the Request Object client_id claim
The authorization server then validates the request, as speciﬁed in

 extract the set of authorization request parameters from the
 only use the parameters in the Request

OAuth 2.0 [RFC6749]
.

MUST

MUST

 be identical.

If the Client ID check or the request validation fails, then the authorization server
an error to the client in response to the authorization request, as speciﬁed in
[RFC6749]

 (OAuth 2.0).

MUST
Section 5.2 of

 return

7.  Authorization Server Response

The authorization server response is created and sent to the client as in
(OAuth 2.0).

Section 4 of [RFC6749]

In addition, this document uses these additional error values:

invalid_request_uri

The request_uri in the authorization request returns an error or contains invalid data.

invalid_request_object

The request parameter contains an invalid Request Object.

request_not_supported

The authorization server does not support the use of the request parameter.

request_uri_not_supported

The authorization server does not support the use of the request_uri parameter.

Sakimura, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9101

OAuth JAR

August 2021

8.  TLS Requirements

Client implementations supporting the Request Object URI method
"Recommendations for Secure Use of Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport
Layer Security (DTLS)" [RFC7525]

 support TLS, following

MUST

.

To protect against information disclosure and tampering, conﬁdentiality protection
applied using TLS with a cipher suite that provides conﬁdentiality and integrity protection.

MUST

 be

MUST

HTTP clients
in-the-middle attacks. The rules and guidelines deﬁned in
following considerations:

 also verify the TLS server certiﬁcate, using DNS-ID

[RFC6125]

[RFC6125]

, to avoid man-

 apply here, with the

•

Support for DNS-ID identiﬁer type (that is, the dNSName identity in the subjectAltName
extension) is
the DNS-ID identiﬁer type, and the DNS-ID identiﬁer type
certiﬁcates.

. Certiﬁcation authorities that issue server certiﬁcates

MUST
 be present in server

REQUIRED

MUST

 support

•

DNS names in server certiﬁcates

MAY

 contain the wildcard character *.

•

MUST NOT

Clients
the server certiﬁcate's subject name but
rules described in

[RFC7525]

.

 use CN-ID identiﬁers; a Common Name ﬁeld (CN ﬁeld) may be present in

MUST NOT

 be used for authentication within the

•

SRV-ID and URI-ID as described in
comparison.

Section 6.5 of [RFC6125] MUST NOT

 be used for

9.  IANA Considerations

9.1.  OAuth Parameters Registration

Since the Request Object is a JWT, the core JWT claims cannot be used for any purpose in the
Request Object other than for what JWT dictates. Thus, they have been registered as OAuth
authorization request parameters to avoid future OAuth extensions using them with diﬀerent
meanings.

This speciﬁcation adds the following values to the "OAuth Parameters" registry
[IANA.OAuth.Parameters]

 established by

[RFC6749]

.

iss

Name:
Parameter Usage Location:
IETF
Change Controller:
Speciﬁcation Document(s):

authorization request

This document and

Section 4.1.1 of [RFC7519]

.

Name:
Parameter Usage Location:

sub

authorization request

Sakimura, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9101

OAuth JAR

August 2021

IETF
Change Controller:
Speciﬁcation Document(s):

aud

Name:
Parameter Usage Location:
IETF
Change Controller:
Speciﬁcation Document(s):

exp

Name:
Parameter Usage Location:
Change Controller:
IETF
Speciﬁcation Document(s):

nbf

Name:
Parameter Usage Location:
Change Controller:
IETF
Speciﬁcation Document(s):

iat

Name:
Parameter Usage Location:
Change Controller:
IETF
Speciﬁcation Document(s):

jti

Name:
Parameter Usage Location:
Change Controller:
IETF
Speciﬁcation Document(s):

This document and

Section 4.1.2 of [RFC7519]

.

authorization request

This document and

Section 4.1.3 of [RFC7519]

.

authorization request

This document and

Section 4.1.4 of [RFC7519]

.

authorization request

This document and

Section 4.1.5 of [RFC7519]

.

authorization request

This document and

Section 4.1.6 of [RFC7519]

.

authorization request

This document and

Section 4.1.7 of [RFC7519]

.

9.2.  OAuth Authorization Server Metadata Registry

This speciﬁcation adds the following value to the "OAuth Authorization Server Metadata" registry
[IANA.OAuth.Parameters]

 established by

[RFC8414]

.

Metadata Name:
Metadata Description:

require_signed_request_object

Indicates where authorization request needs to be protected as Request

Object and provided through either request or request_uri parameter.

Change Controller:
IETF
Speciﬁcation Document(s):

Section 10.5 of this document.

9.3.  OAuth Dynamic Client Registration Metadata Registry

This speciﬁcation adds the following value to the "OAuth Dynamic Client Registration Metadata"
registry

[IANA.OAuth.Parameters]

 established by

[RFC7591]
.

Sakimura, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9101

OAuth JAR

August 2021

Metadata Name:
Metadata Description:

require_signed_request_object

Indicates where authorization request needs to be protected as Request

Object and provided through either request or request_uri parameter.

Change Controller:
IETF
Speciﬁcation Document(s):

Section 10.5 of this document.

9.4.  Media Type Registration

9.4.1.  Registry Contents

This section registers the application/oauth-authz-req+jwt media type
"Media Types" registry
to indicate that the content is a JWT containing Request Object claims.

 in the manner described in

[IANA.MediaTypes]

[RFC2046]

 in the
. It can be used

[RFC6838]

oauth-authz-req+jwt

application

Type name:
Subtype name:
Required parameters:
Optional parameters:
Encoding considerations:

N/A
N/A

binary; a Request Object is a JWT; JWT values are encoded as a series
of base64url-encoded values (some of which may be the empty string) separated by period (.)
characters.

Security considerations:
Interoperability considerations:
Published speciﬁcation:
Applications that use this media type:

N/A
Section 4 of RFC 9101

See Section 10 of RFC 9101

Applications that use Request Objects to make an OAuth

2.0 authorization request

Fragment identiﬁer considerations:
Additional information:

N/A

Deprecated alias names for this type:
Magic number(s):
File extension(s):
Macintosh ﬁle type code(s):

N/A
N/A

N/A

N/A

Person & email address to contact for further information:

Nat Sakimura <nat@nat.consulting>

COMMON
none

Intended usage:
Restrictions on usage:
Author:
Change controller:
Provisional registration?

IETF

No

Nat Sakimura <nat@nat.consulting>

Sakimura, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9101

OAuth JAR

August 2021

10.  Security Considerations

In addition to all the
considerations in
there are several academic papers such as
properties of protocols like OAuth.

[RFC7515] [RFC7516] [RFC7518]
[BASIN]

,

,

security considerations discussed in OAuth 2.0 [RFC6819]

, the security

[RFC8725]

, and
 need to be considered. Also,
 that provide useful insight into the security

In consideration of the above, this document advises taking the following security considerations
into account.

10.1.  Choice of Algorithms

When sending the Authorization Request Object through the request parameter, it
either signed using
[RFC7516]

, respectively, with algorithms considered appropriate at the time.

 or signed and then encrypted using

JWS [RFC7515]

JWS [RFC7515]

MUST

 be

 and

JWE

10.2.  Request Source Authentication

The source of the authorization request

MUST

 always be veriﬁed. There are several ways to do it:

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

Verifying the JWS Signature of the Request Object.

Verifying that the symmetric key for the JWE encryption is the correct one if the JWE is
using symmetric encryption. Note, however, that if public key encryption is used, no
source authentication is enabled by the encryption, as any party can encrypt to the public
key.

Verifying the TLS Server Identity of the Request Object URI. In this case, the authorization
server
client is covered by the TLS certiﬁcate. In general, this is not a reliable method.

 know out-of-band that the client uses the Request Object URI and only the

MUST

MUST

MUST

 perform client

When an authorization server implements a service that returns a Request Object URI in
exchange for a Request Object, the authorization server
authentication to accept the Request Object and bind the client identiﬁer to the Request
Object URI it is providing. It
URI can be replayed, the lifetime of the Request Object URI
one-time use. The entropy of the Request Object URI
adequate shortness of the validity and the entropy of the Request Object URI depends on
the risk calculation based on the value of the resource being protected. A general guidance
for the validity time would be less than a minute, and the Request Object URI is to include
a cryptographic random value of 128 bits or more at the time of the writing of this
speciﬁcation.

 validate the signature, per (a). Since the Request Object
 be short and preferably
MUST

 be suﬃciently large. The

MUST

When a trusted third-party service returns a Request Object URI in exchange for a Request
Object, it
be trusted by the third-party service and
trusted by it.

 validate the signature, per (a). In addition, the authorization server

 know out-of-band that the client is also

MUST

MUST

MUST

Sakimura, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9101

OAuth JAR

August 2021

10.3.  Explicit Endpoints

Although this speciﬁcation does not require them, research such as
good practice to explicitly state the intended interaction endpoints and the message position in
the sequence in a tamper-evident manner so that the intent of the initiator is unambiguous. It is
RECOMMENDED
,
[RFC6749] [RFC6750]

 by this speciﬁcation to use this practice for the following endpoints deﬁned in

 points out that it is a

:
[RFC8414]

[BASIN]

, and

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

Protected resources (protected_resources)

Authorization endpoint (authorization_endpoint)

Redirection URI (redirect_uri)

Token endpoint (token_endpoint)

Further, if dynamic discovery is used, then this practice also applies to the discovery-related
endpoints.

[RFC6749]

In
As a result, the same applies to the Authorization Request Object.

, while the redirection URI is included in the authorization request, others are not.

10.4.  Risks Associated with request_uri

The introduction of request_uri introduces several attack possibilities. Consult the security
considerations in
URIs.

 for more information regarding risks associated with

Section 7 of [RFC3986]

10.4.1.  DDoS Attack on the Authorization Server

A set of malicious clients can launch a DoS attack to the authorization server by pointing the
request_uri to a URI that returns extremely large content or is extremely slow to respond.
Under such an attack, the server may use up its resource and start failing.

Similarly, a malicious client can specify a request_uri value that itself points to an authorization
request URI that uses request_uri to cause the recursive lookup.

To prevent such an attack from succeeding, the server should a) check that the value of the
request_uri parameter does not point to an unexpected location, b) check that the media type of
the response is application/oauth-authz-req+jwt, c) implement a timeout for obtaining the
content of request_uri, and d) not perform recursive GET on the request_uri.

10.4.2.  Request URI Rewrite

The value of request_uri is not signed; thus, it can be tampered with by a man-in-the-browser
attacker. Several attack possibilities arise because of this. For example, a) an attacker may create
another ﬁle that the rewritten URI points to, making it possible to request extra scope, or b) an
attacker may launch a DoS attack on a victim site by setting the value of request_uri to be that
of the victim.

Sakimura, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9101

OAuth JAR

August 2021

To prevent such an attack from succeeding, the server should a) check that the value of the
request_uri parameter does not point to an unexpected location, b) check that the media type of
the response is application/oauth-authz-req+jwt, and c) implement a timeout for obtaining
the content of request_uri.

10.5.  Downgrade Attack

Unless the protocol used by the client and the server is locked down to use an OAuth JWT-
Secured Authorization Request (JAR), it is possible for an attacker to use RFC 6749 requests to
bypass all the protection provided by this speciﬁcation.

To prevent this kind of attack, this speciﬁcation deﬁnes new client metadata and server metadata
values, both named require_signed_request_object, whose values are both booleans.

When the value of it as client metadata is true, then the server
MUST
request from the client that does not conform to this speciﬁcation. It
if the Request Object uses an alg value of none when this server metadata value is true. If
omitted, the default value is false.

 reject the authorization
MUST

 also reject the request

When the value of it as server metadata is true, then the server
MUST
request from any client that does not conform to this speciﬁcation. It
if the Request Object uses an alg value of none. If omitted, the default value is false.

 reject the authorization
MUST

 also reject the request

Note that even if require_signed_request_object metadata values are not present, the client
 use signed Request Objects, provided that there are signing algorithms mutually supported
MAY
by the client and the server. Use of signing algorithm metadata is described in Section 4.

10.6.  TLS Security Considerations

Current security considerations can be found in "Recommendations for Secure Use of Transport
Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)"
. This supersedes
the TLS version recommendations in

.
OAuth 2.0 [RFC6749]

[RFC7525]

10.7.  Parameter Mismatches

Given that OAuth parameter values are being sent in two diﬀerent places, as normal OAuth
parameters and as Request Object claims, implementations must guard against attacks that could
use mismatching parameter values to obtain unintended outcomes. That is the reason that the
two client ID values
 match, the reason that only the parameter values from the Request
Object are to be used, and the reason that neither request nor request_uri can appear in a
Request Object.

MUST

10.8.  Cross-JWT Confusion

Section 2.8 of [RFC8725]

As described in
purpose in a context that it was not intended for. The mitigations described for these attacks can
be applied to Request Objects.

, attackers may attempt to use a JWT issued for one

Sakimura, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9101

OAuth JAR

August 2021

One way that an attacker might attempt to repurpose a Request Object is to try to use it as a
client authentication JWT, as described in
is to never use the client ID as the sub value in a Request Object.

Section 2.2 of [RFC7523]

. A simple way to prevent this

Another way to prevent cross-JWT confusion is to use explicit typing, as described in
. One would explicitly type a Request Object by including a typ Header Parameter
of [RFC8725]
with the value oauth-authz-req+jwt (which is registered in Section 9.4.1). Note, however, that
requiring explicitly typed Request Objects at existing authorization servers will break most
existing deployments, as existing clients are already commonly using untyped Request Objects,
especially with OpenID Connect
good idea for new OAuth deployment proﬁles where compatibility with existing deployments is
not a consideration.

. However, requiring explicit typing would be a

[OpenID.Core]

Section 3.11

Finally, yet another way to prevent cross-JWT confusion is to use a key management regime in
which keys used to sign Request Objects are identiﬁably distinct from those used for other
purposes. Then, if an adversary attempts to repurpose the Request Object in another context, a
key mismatch will occur, thwarting the attack.

11.  Privacy Considerations

When the client is being granted access to a protected resource containing personal data, both
the client and the authorization server need to adhere to Privacy Principles. "Privacy
Considerations for Internet Protocols"
protocol design and implementation. The provisions listed in it should be followed.

 gives excellent guidance on the enhancement of

[RFC6973]

Most of the provisions would apply to "The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework"
"The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework: Bearer Token Usage"
this speciﬁcation. In what follows, only the provisions speciﬁc to this speciﬁcation are noted.

[RFC6749]
 and
 and are not speciﬁc to

[RFC6750]

11.1.  Collection Limitation

When the client is being granted access to a protected resource containing personal data, the
client
applicable law and strictly necessary for the speciﬁed purpose(s).

 limit the collection of personal data to that which is within the bounds of

SHOULD

It is often hard for the user to ﬁnd out if the personal data asked for is strictly necessary. A
trusted third-party service can help the user by examining the client request, comparing it to the
proposed processing by the client, and certifying the request. After the certiﬁcation, the client,
when making an authorization request, can submit an authorization request to the trusted third-
party service to obtain the Request Object URI. This process has two steps:

(1)

(Certiﬁcation Process) The trusted third-party service examines the business process of the
client and determines what claims they need; this is the certiﬁcation process. Once the
client is certiﬁed, they are issued a client credential to authenticate against to push
Request Objects to the trusted third-party service to get the request_uri.

Sakimura, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9101

OAuth JAR

August 2021

(2)

(Translation Process) The client uses the client credential that it got to push the Request
Object to the trusted third-party service to get the request_uri. The trusted third-party
service also veriﬁes that the Request Object is consistent with the claims that the client is
eligible for, per the prior step.

Upon receiving such a Request Object URI in the authorization request, the authorization server
ﬁrst veriﬁes that the authority portion of the Request Object URI is a legitimate one for the
trusted third-party service. Then, the authorization server issues an HTTP GET request to the
Request Object URI. Upon connecting, the authorization server
identity represented in the TLS certiﬁcate is legitimate for the Request Object URI. Then, the
authorization server can obtain the Request Object, which includes the client_id representing
the client.

 verify that the server

MUST

The Consent screen
vetted by the trusted third-party service for the adherence to the collection limitation principle.

 indicate that the request has been

 indicate the client and

SHOULD

MUST

11.2.  Disclosure Limitation

11.2.1.  Request Disclosure

This speciﬁcation allows extension parameters. These may include potentially sensitive
information. Since URI query parameters may leak through various means but most notably
through referrer and browser history, if the authorization request contains a potentially
.
sensitive parameter, the client
JWE [RFC7516]

 encrypt the Request Object using

SHOULD

Where the Request Object URI method is being used, if the Request Object contains personally
identiﬁable or sensitive information, the request_uri
 be used only once and have a
 have suﬃcient entropy for the applicable security policies
short validity period, and it
unless the Request Object itself is encrypted using
validity and the entropy of the Request Object URI depends on the risk calculation based on the
value of the resource being protected. A general guidance for the validity time would be less than
a minute, and the Request Object URI is to include a cryptographic random value of 128 bits or
more at the time of the writing of this speciﬁcation.

. The adequate shortness of the

JWE [RFC7516]

SHOULD

MUST

11.2.2.  Tracking Using Request Object URI

Even if the protected resource does not include personally identiﬁable information, it is
sometimes possible to identify the user through the Request Object URI if persistent static per-
user Request Object URIs are used. A third party may observe it through browser history, etc. and
start correlating the user's activity using it. In a way, it is a data disclosure as well and should be
avoided.

Therefore, per-user persistent Request Object URIs should be avoided. Single-use Request Object
URIs are one alternative.

Sakimura, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9101

OAuth JAR

August 2021

12.  References

12.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC3629]

[RFC3986]

[RFC6125]

[RFC6749]

[RFC6750]

[RFC7230]

[RFC7515]

[RFC7516]

[RFC7518]

[RFC7519]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,
Yergeau, F. "UTF-8, a transformation format of ISO 10646" STD 63 RFC 3629
DOI 10.17487/RFC3629
rfc3629>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, November 2003,

,

,

.

,

,

, and
Berners-Lee, T. Fielding, R.
Generic Syntax" STD 66 RFC 3986 DOI 10.17487/RFC3986
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3986>

,

,

,

.

,

L. Masinter "Uniform Resource Identiﬁer (URI):

, January 2005,

,

 and

J. Hodges "Representation and Veriﬁcation of Domain-Based

Saint-Andre, P.
Application Service Identity within Internet Public Key Infrastructure Using
X.509 (PKIX) Certiﬁcates in the Context of Transport Layer Security (TLS)" RFC
,
6125 DOI 10.17487/RFC6125
rfc6125>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, March 2011,

.

Hardt, D., Ed. "The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework" RFC 6749 DOI
10.17487/RFC6749

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6749>

, October 2012,

,

,

,

.

 and

Jones, M.
Usage" RFC 6750 DOI 10.17487/RFC6750
editor.org/info/rfc6750>

,

,

.

,

D. Hardt "The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework: Bearer Token

, October 2012,

<https://www.rfc-

 and

Fielding, R., Ed.
,
Message Syntax and Routing" RFC 7230 DOI 10.17487/RFC7230
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7230>

J. Reschke, Ed. "Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1):
, June 2014,

,

,

.

,
Jones, M. Bradley, J.
DOI 10.17487/RFC7515

N. Sakimura "JSON Web Signature (JWS)" RFC 7515
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7515>

, May 2015,

,

,

, and

,

Jones, M.
10.17487/RFC7516

 and

J. Hildebrand "JSON Web Encryption (JWE)" RFC 7516 DOI

,

,

,

, May 2015,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7516>

.

Jones, M. "JSON Web Algorithms (JWA)" RFC 7518 DOI 10.17487/RFC7518
2015,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7518>

.

,

,

,

, May

,
Jones, M. Bradley, J.
10.17487/RFC7519

, and

N. Sakimura "JSON Web Token (JWT)" RFC 7519 DOI

,

,

,

, May 2015,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7519>

.

Sakimura, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9101

OAuth JAR

August 2021

[RFC7525]

[RFC8141]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8259]

[RFC8414]

,

, and

P. Saint-Andre "Recommendations for Secure Use of

Sheﬀer, Y. Holz, R.
,
Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)"
BCP 195 RFC 7525 DOI 10.17487/RFC7525
editor.org/info/rfc7525>

<https://www.rfc-

, May 2015,

,

,

.

,

Saint-Andre, P.
10.17487/RFC8141

 and

,
, April 2017,

J. Klensin "Uniform Resource Names (URNs)" RFC 8141 DOI

,

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8141>

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Bray, T., Ed. "The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data Interchange Format"
STD 90 RFC 8259 DOI 10.17487/RFC8259
editor.org/info/rfc8259>

, December 2017,

<https://www.rfc-

,

.

,

,

,

Jones, M. Sakimura, N.
Metadata" RFC 8414 DOI 10.17487/RFC8414
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc8414>

, and

.

J. Bradley "OAuth 2.0 Authorization Server
, June 2018,

<https://www.rfc-

,

12.2.  Informative References

[BASIN]

[CapURLs]

,

, and

Basin, D. Cremers, C.
Standard for Entity Authentication" Journal of Computer Security - Security and
Trust Principles, Volume 21, Issue 6, pp. 817-846
www.cs.ox.ac.uk/people/cas.cremers/downloads/papers/BCM2012-iso9798.pdf>

S. Meier "Provably Repairing the ISO/IEC 9798

, November 2013,

<https://

,
,

.

Tennison, J., Ed. "Good Practices for Capability URLs" W3C First Public Working
Draft

<https://www.w3.org/TR/capability-urls/>

, 18 February 2014,

.

,

,

[IANA.JWT.Claims]

[IANA.MediaTypes]

IANA "JSON Web Token (JWT)" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/jwt>

,

,

.

IANA "Media Types" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/media-types>

,

,

.

[IANA.OAuth.Parameters]

IANA "OAuth Parameters" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/

,

,
.
oauth-parameters>

[OpenID.Core]

[RFC2046]

[RFC6819]

,

,

,
,
, and
Sakimura, N. Bradley, J. Jones, M.B. de Medeiros, B.
,
"OpenID Connect Core 1.0 incorporating errata set 1" OpenID Foundation
Standards
core-1_0.html>

<http://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-

, 8 November 2014,

C. Mortimore

.

 and

,
Freed, N.
Part Two: Media Types" RFC 2046 DOI 10.17487/RFC2046
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2046>

N. Borenstein "Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME)
, November 1996,

,

,

.

Lodderstedt, T., Ed. McGloin, M.
Security Considerations" RFC 6819 DOI 10.17487/RFC6819
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6819>

, and
,

,

,

,

.

P. Hunt "OAuth 2.0 Threat Model and

, January 2013,

Sakimura, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9101

OAuth JAR

August 2021

[RFC6838]

[RFC6973]

[RFC7523]

[RFC7591]

[RFC8725]

Freed, N. Klensin, J.
,
Procedures" BCP 13 RFC 6838 DOI 10.17487/RFC6838
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6838>

, and
,

,

.

,

,

T. Hansen "Media Type Speciﬁcations and Registration

, January 2013,

<https://

,

R.
Cooper, A. Tschofenig, H. Aboba, B. Peterson, J. Morris, J. Hansen, M.
Smith "Privacy Considerations for Internet Protocols" RFC 6973 DOI 10.17487/
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6973>
RFC6973

, July 2013,

, and

,

,

,

.

,

,

,

,

,

Jones, M. Campbell, B.
OAuth 2.0 Client Authentication and Authorization Grants" RFC 7523 DOI
10.17487/RFC7523

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7523>

C. Mortimore "JSON Web Token (JWT) Proﬁle for

, May 2015,

, and

.

,

,

,

, and
,
Richer, J., Ed. Jones, M. Bradley, J. Machulak, M.
,
Dynamic Client Registration Protocol" RFC 7591 DOI 10.17487/RFC7591
2015,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7591>

P. Hunt "OAuth 2.0

,

.

,

,

, July

,
Sheﬀer, Y. Hardt, D.
,
BCP 225 RFC 8725 DOI 10.17487/RFC8725
editor.org/info/rfc8725>

, and

.

,

,

M. Jones "JSON Web Token Best Current Practices"
, February 2020,
<https://www.rfc-

,

Acknowledgements

The following people contributed to the creation of this document in the OAuth Working Group
and other IETF roles. (Aﬃliations at the time of the contribution are used.)

 (Connect2id),

Annabelle Backman
Brian Campbell
Dzhuvinov
Stephen Kent
(as SECDIR),
Moriarty
(as AD),
Skokan

 (as AD),
David Recordon
 (Auth0),

 (Amazon),
 (Ping Identity),

Dirk Balfanz
Roman Danyliw

 (Google),

Sergey Beryozkin Ben Campbell
Vladimir

Martin Duke

 (as AD),

,

 (as AD),

Lars Eggert

 (as AD),
Murray Kucherawy

 (as SECDIR),
Torsten Lodderstedt

 (yes.com),

Axel Nennker

 (Deutsche Telecom),

 (Facebook),

Marius Scurtescu

 (as AD),
Joel Halpern
 (as AD),

 (as GENART),

Benjamin Kaduk

Warren Kumari
,

 (as OPSDIR),
 (Telstra),

Jim Manico James H. Manger
John Panzer
 (Google),

 (Google),
Luke Shepard

 (as AD),
Watson Ladd
Kathleen

Francesca Palombini
Filip
 (Facebook),
 (as AD).

Hannes Tschofenig

 (ARM),

Éric Vyncke

 (as AD), and

Robert Wilton

The following people contributed to creating this document through the
.
[OpenID.Core]

OpenID Connect Core 1.0

Brian Campbell
Breno de Medeiros

 (Ping Identity),
 (Google),

George Fletcher

 (AOL),

Ryo Itou

 (Mixi),

Edmund Jay

 (Illumila),

Hideki Nara

 (TACT), and

Justin Richer

 (MITRE).

Sakimura, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9101

OAuth JAR

August 2021

Authors' Addresses

Nat Sakimura
NAT.Consulting
2-22-17 Naka
Kunitachi Tokyo 186-0004
Japan
Phone:
Email:
URI:

 +81-42-580-7401
 nat@nat.consulting
 https://nat.sakimura.org/

,

John Bradley
Yubico
Sucursal Talagante
Casilla 177
Talagante
RM
Chile
Phone:
Email:
URI:

 +1.202.630.5272
 rfc9101@ve7jtb.com

 http://www.thread-safe.com/

Michael B. Jones
Microsoft
One Microsoft Way
Redmond Washington 98052
,
United States of America
Email:
URI:

 mbj@microsoft.com
 https://self-issued.info/

Sakimura, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

