Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9366
3326
Standards Track
March 2023
2070-1721
R. Sparks

RFC 9366
Multiple SIP Reason Header Field Values

Abstract

The SIP Reason header field as defined in RFC 3326 allows only one Reason value per protocol
value. Experience with more recently defined protocols shows it is useful to allow multiple
values with the same protocol value. This document updates RFC 3326 to allow multiple values
for an indicated registered protocol when that protocol defines what the presence of multiple
values means.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9366
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Sparks

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9366

Multiple SIP Reason Header Field Values

March 2023

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Conventions

3.  Update to RFC 3326

4.  Security Considerations

5.  IANA Considerations

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

6.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

The SIP Reason header field as defined in RFC 3326 allows only one Reason value per protocol
value. Experience with more recently defined protocols shows it is useful to allow multiple
[STIRREASONS]
values with the same protocol value
multiple values for an indicated registered protocol when that protocol defines what the
presence of multiple values means. It does not change the requirement in RFC 3326 restricting
the header field contents to one value per protocol for those protocols that do not define what
multiple values mean.

. This document updates RFC 3326 to allow

2.  Conventions

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Update to RFC 3326

The last paragraph of

Section 2 of [RFC3326]

 is replaced as follows:

OLD:

Sparks

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9366

Multiple SIP Reason Header Field Values

March 2023

MAY

A SIP message
all of them
implementation is free to ignore Reason values that it does not understand.

 have different protocol values (e.g., one SIP and another Q.850). An

 contain more than one Reason value (i.e., multiple Reason lines), but

MUST

NEW:

MAY

A SIP message
 contain more than one Reason value (i.e., multiple Reason lines). If
the registered protocol for the Reason value specifies what it means for multiple values
to occur in one message, more than one value for that protocol
Otherwise, there
 be only one value per protocol provided (e.g., one SIP and
another Q.850). An implementation is free to ignore Reason values that it does not
understand.

 be present.

MUST

MAY

4.  Security Considerations

This document adds no security considerations to the use of SIP. The security considerations in
[RFC3326]
considered.

 and those in any registered protocols used in Reason header field values should be

5.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC3326]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Schulzrinne, H. Oran, D.
Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)" RFC 3326 DOI 10.17487/RFC3326
,
2002,

G. Camarillo "The Reason Header Field for the
, December

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3326>

, and

,
,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

6.2.  Informative References

Sparks

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9366

Multiple SIP Reason Header Field Values

March 2023

[STIRREASONS]

Wendt, C. "Identity Header Errors Handling for STIR" Work in Progress

,

,

,

Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-stir-identity-header-errors-handling-08
2023,
handling-08>

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-stir-identity-header-errors-

, 25 February

.

Acknowledgments

This text is based on discussions at a STIR Working Group interim meeting.
Russ Housley
Christer Holmberg Dale Worley Brian Rosen Chris Wendt
words.
constructive discussion during SIPCORE Working Group adoption.

 and
 provided suggestions that vastly improved the first attempts at assembling these
 provided
,

Jean Mahoney

Paul Kyzivat

, and

,

,

Author's Address

Robert Sparks
Email:

 rjsparks@nostrum.com

Sparks

Standards Track

Page 4

