Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9678
5448, 9048
Standards Track
March 2025
2070-1721
J. Arkko
Ericsson

K. Norrman
Ericsson

J. Preuß Mattsson
Ericsson

RFC 9678
Forward Secrecy Extension to the Improved
Extensible Authentication Protocol Method for
Authentication and Key Agreement (EAP-AKA' FS)

Abstract

This document updates RFC 9048, "Improved Extensible Authentication Protocol Method for
3GPP Mobile Network Authentication and Key Agreement (EAP-AKA')", and its predecessor RFC
5448 with an optional extension providing ephemeral key exchange. The extension EAP-AKA'
Forward Secrecy (EAP-AKA' FS), when negotiated, provides forward secrecy for the session keys
generated as a part of the authentication run in EAP-AKA'. This prevents an attacker who has
gained access to the long-term key from obtaining session keys established in the past. In
addition, EAP-AKA' FS mitigates passive attacks (e.g., large-scale pervasive monitoring) against
future sessions. This forces attackers to use active attacks instead.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9678
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Arkko, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9678

EAP-AKA' FS

March 2025

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Requirements Language

3.  Protocol Design and Deployment Objectives

4.  Background

4.1.  AKA

4.2.  EAP-AKA' Protocol

4.3.  Attacks Against Long-Term Keys in Smart Cards

5.  Protocol Overview

6.  Extensions to EAP-AKA'

6.1.  AT_PUB_ECDHE

6.2.  AT_KDF_FS

6.3.  Forward Secrecy Key Derivation Functions

6.4.  ECDHE Groups

6.5.  Message Processing

6.5.1.  EAP-Request/AKA'-Identity

6.5.2.  EAP-Response/AKA'-Identity

6.5.3.  EAP-Request/AKA'-Challenge

6.5.4.  EAP-Response/AKA'-Challenge

6.5.5.  EAP-Request/AKA'-Reauthentication

6.5.6.  EAP-Response/AKA'-Reauthentication

6.5.7.  EAP-Response/AKA'-Synchronization-Failure

6.5.8.  EAP-Response/AKA'-Authentication-Reject

6.5.9.  EAP-Response/AKA'-Client-Error

6.5.10. EAP-Request/AKA'-Notification

3

4

4

5

5

6

8

8

10

10

10

12

14

14

14

14

14

15

15

16

16

16

16

16

Arkko, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9678

EAP-AKA' FS

March 2025

6.5.11. EAP-Response/AKA'-Notification

7.  Security Considerations

7.1.  Deployment Considerations

7.2.  Security Properties

7.3.  Denial of Service

7.4.  Identity Privacy

7.5.  Unprotected Data and Privacy

7.6.  Forward Secrecy within AT_ENCR

7.7.  Post-Quantum Considerations

8.  IANA Considerations

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

16

16

18

18

19

20

20

20

21

22

22

22

24

25

25

Many different attacks have been reported as part of the revelations associated with pervasive
surveillance. Some of the reported attacks involved compromising the Universal Subscriber
Identity Module (USIM) card supply chain. Attacks revealing the AKA long-term key may occur,
for instance:

•

during the manufacturing process of USIM cards,

•

during the transfer of the cards and associated information to the operator, and

•

when the system is running.

Since the publication of reports about such attacks (see
provisioning processes have gained much scrutiny and have improved.

[Heist2015]

), manufacturing and

However, the danger of resourceful attackers attempting to gain information about long-term
keys is still a concern because these keys are high-value targets. Note that the attacks are largely
independent of the used authentication technology; the issue is not vulnerabilities in algorithms
or protocols, but rather the possibility of someone gaining unauthorized access to key material.
Furthermore, an explicit goal of the IETF is to ensure that we understand the surveillance
concerns related to IETF protocols and take appropriate countermeasures

[RFC7258]
.

Arkko, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9678

EAP-AKA' FS

March 2025

While strong protection of manufacturing and other processes is essential in mitigating
surveillance and other risks associated with AKA long-term keys, there are also protocol
mechanisms that can help.

[RFC9048]

, "Improved Extensible Authentication Protocol Method for

This document updates
3GPP Mobile Network Authentication and Key Agreement (EAP-AKA')", with an optional
extension providing ephemeral key exchange, which minimizes the impact of long-term key
compromise and strengthens the identity privacy requirements. This is important, given the
large number of users of AKA in mobile networks.

The extension, when negotiated, provides Forward Secrecy (FS)
generated as a part of the authentication run in EAP-AKA'. This prevents an attacker who has
gained access to the long-term key in a USIM card from getting access to past session keys. In
addition to FS, the included Diffie-Hellman exchange forces attackers to be active if they want
access to future session keys, even if they have access to the long-term key. This is beneficial
because active attacks demand many more resources to launch and are easier to detect. As with
other protocols, an active attacker with access to the long-term key material will, of course, be
able to attack all future communications, but risks detection, particularly if done at scale.

 for the session key

[DOW1992]

It should also be noted that 5G network architecture
framework for authentication. While any methods can be run, the default authentication
method within that context will be EAP-AKA'. As a result, improvements in EAP-AKA' security
have the potential to improve security for many users.

 includes the use of the EAP

[TS.33.501]

2.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Protocol Design and Deployment Objectives

The extension specified here reuses large portions of the current structure of 3GPP interfaces
and functions, with the rationale that this will make the construction more easily adopted. In
particular, the construction keeps the interface between the USIM and the mobile terminal
intact. As a consequence, there is no need to roll out new credentials to existing subscribers. The
) and uses much of the same material but
work is based on an earlier paper (see
is applied to EAP rather than the underlying AKA method.

[TrustCom2015]

It has been a goal to implement this change as an extension of the widely supported EAP-AKA'
method, rather than implement a completely new authentication method. The extension is
implemented as a set of new, optional attributes that are provided alongside the base attributes
in EAP-AKA'. Old implementations can ignore these attributes, but their presence will

Arkko, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9678

EAP-AKA' FS

March 2025

nevertheless be verified as part of the base EAP-AKA' integrity verification process, helping
protect against bidding down attacks. This extension does not increase the number of rounds
necessary to complete the protocol.

The use of this extension is at the discretion of the authenticating parties. It should be noted that
FS and defenses against passive attacks do not solve all problems, but they can provide a partial
defense that increases the cost and risk associated with pervasive surveillance.

While adding FS to the existing mobile network infrastructure can be done in multiple different
ways, this document specifies a solution that is relatively easy to deploy. In particular:

•

As noted above, no new credentials are needed; there is no change to USIM cards.

•

FS property can be incorporated into any current or future system that supports EAP,
without changing any network functions beyond the EAP endpoints.

•

Key generation happens at the endpoints, enabling the highest grade key material to be used
both by the endpoints and the intermediate systems (such as access points that are given
access to specific keys).

•

While EAP-AKA' is just one EAP method, for practical purposes, FS being available for both
EAP-TLS
be enabled for either all or a significant fraction of users.

 and EAP-AKA' ensures that, for many practical systems, FS can

[RFC5216] [RFC9190]

4.  Background

The reader is assumed to have a basic understanding of the EAP framework

[RFC3748]
.

4.1.  AKA

We use the term "Authentication and Key Agreement" (or "AKA") for the main authentication and
key agreement protocol used by 3GPP mobile networks from the third generation (3G) and
onward. Later generations add new features to AKA, but the core remains the same. It is based
on challenge-response mechanisms and symmetric cryptography. In contrast to its earlier GSM
counterparts, AKA provides long key lengths and mutual authentication. The phone typically
executes AKA in a USIM. A USIM is technically just an application that can reside on a removable
Universal Integrated Circuit Card (UICC), an embedded UICC, or integrated in a Trusted
Execution Environment (TEE). In this document, we use the term "USIM card" to refer to any
Subscriber Identity Module (SIM) capable of running AKA.

The goals of AKA are to mutually authenticate the USIM and the so-called home environment,
which is the authentication Server in the subscriber's home operator's network, and to establish
key material between the two.

AKA works in the following manner:

•

The USIM and the home environment have agreed on a long-term symmetric key
beforehand.

Arkko, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9678

EAP-AKA' FS

March 2025

•

The actual authentication process starts by having the home environment produce an
authentication vector, based on the long-term key and a sequence number. The
authentication vector contains a random part RAND, an authenticator part AUTN used for
authenticating the network to the USIM, an expected result part XRES, a 128-bit session key
for the integrity check IK, and a 128-bit session key for the encryption CK.

•

The authentication vector is passed to the serving network, which uses it to authenticate the
device.

•

The RAND and the AUTN are delivered to the USIM.

•

The USIM verifies the AUTN, again based on the long-term key and the sequence number. If
this process is successful (the AUTN is valid and the sequence number used to generate the
AUTN is within the correct range), the USIM produces an authentication result RES and
sends it to the serving network.

•

The serving network verifies that the result from the USIM matches the expected value in
the authentication vector. If it does, the USIM is considered authenticated, and the IK and CK
can be used to protect further communications between the USIM and the home
environment.

4.2.  EAP-AKA' Protocol

When AKA is embedded into EAP, the authentication processing on the network side is moved to
the home environment. The 3GPP Authentication Database (AD) generates authentication
vectors. The 3GPP authentication Server takes the role of EAP Server. The USIM combined with
 and EAP-
the mobile phone takes the role of client. The difference between EAP-AKA
AKA'
1 describes the basic flow in the EAP-AKA' authentication process. The definition of the full
protocol behavior, along with the definition of the attributes AT_RAND, AT_AUTN, AT_MAC, and
AT_RES can be found in
That is, the 3GPP serving network takes on the role of an EAP access network.

 is that EAP-AKA' binds the derived keys to the name of the access network. Figure

. Note the use of EAP terminology from hereon.

[RFC9048]

[RFC9048]

[RFC4187]

[RFC4187]

 and

Arkko, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9678

EAP-AKA' FS

March 2025

Figure 1: EAP-AKA' Authentication Process

Arkko, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

PeerServerEAP-Request/IdentityEAP-Response/Identity(Includesuser'sNetworkAccessIdentifier(NAI))TheServerdeterminesthenetworknameandensuresthatthegivenaccessnetworkisauthorizedtousetheclaimedname.TheServerthenrunstheEAP-AKA'algorithmsgeneratingRANDandAUTN,andderivessessionkeysfromCK'andIK'.RANDandAUTNaresentasAT_RANDandAT_AUTNattributes,whereasthenetworknameistransportedintheAT_KDF_INPUTattribute.AT_KDFsignalstheusedkeyderivationfunction.ThesessionkeysareusedtocreatetheAT_MACattribute.EAP-Request/AKA'-Challenge(AT_RAND,AT_AUTN,AT_KDF,AT_KDF_INPUT,AT_MAC)ThePeerdetermineswhatthenetworknameshouldbe,basedon,e.g.,whataccesstechnologyitisusing.ThePeeralsoretrievesthenetworknamesentbythenetworkfromtheAT_KDF_INPUTattribute.Thetwonamesarecomparedfordiscrepancies,andiftheydonotmatch,theauthenticationisaborted.Otherwise,thenetworknamefromtheAT_KDF_INPUTattributeisusedinrunningtheEAP-AKA'algorithms,verifyingAUTNfromAT_AUTNandMessageAuthenticationCode(MAC)fromtheAT_MACattributes.ThePeerthengeneratesRES.ThePeeralsoderivessessionkeysfromCK'/IK.TheAT_RESandAT_MACattributesareconstructed.EAP-ResponseAKA'-Challenge(AT_RES,AT_MAC)TheServercheckstheRESandMACvaluesreceivedinAT_RESandAT_MAC,respectively.Successrequiresbothcomparedvaluesmatch,respectively.EAP-SuccessRFC 9678

EAP-AKA' FS

March 2025

4.3.  Attacks Against Long-Term Keys in Smart Cards

The general security properties and potential vulnerabilities of AKA and EAP-AKA' are discussed
in

[RFC9048]
.

An important question in that discussion relates to the potential compromise of long-term keys,
as discussed earlier. Attacks on long-term keys are not specific to AKA or EAP-AKA', and all
security systems fail, at least to some extent, if key material is stolen. However, it would be
preferable to retain some security even in the face of such attacks. This document specifies a
mechanism that reduces the risks of compromising key material belonging to previous sessions,
before the long-term keys were compromised. It also forces attackers to be active even after the
compromise.

5.  Protocol Overview

[RFC7748]

Forward Secrecy (FS) for EAP-AKA' is achieved by using an Elliptic Curve Diffie-Hellman (ECDH)
exchange
. To provide FS, the exchange must be run in an ephemeral manner, i.e.,
both sides generate temporary keys according to the negotiated ciphersuite. For example, for
X25519, this is done as specified in
last "E" stands for "Ephemeral". The two initially registered elliptic curves and their wire
formats are chosen to align with the elliptic curves and formats specified for Subscription
Concealed Identifier (SUCI) encryption in Appendix C.3.4 of 3GPP

. This method is referred to as "ECDHE", where the

[TS.33.501]
.

[RFC7748]

The enhancements in the EAP-AKA' FS protocol are compatible with the signaling flow and other
basic structures of both AKA and EAP-AKA'. The intent is to implement the enhancement as
optional attributes that legacy implementations ignore.

The purpose of the protocol is to achieve mutual authentication between the EAP Server and
Peer and to establish key material for secure communication between the two. This document
specifies the calculation of key material, providing new properties that are not present in key
material provided by EAP-AKA' in its original form.

Figure 2 describes the overall process. Since the goal has been to not require new infrastructure
or credentials, the flow diagrams also show the conceptual interaction with the USIM card and
the home environment. Recall that the home environment represents the 3GPP Authentication
Database (AD) and Server. The details of those interactions are outside the scope of this
document; however, and the reader is referred to the 3GPP specifications (for 5G, this is
specified in 3GPP

[TS.33.501]

).

Arkko, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9678

EAP-AKA' FS

March 2025

Arkko, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

USIMPeerServerADEAP-Req/IdentityEAP-Resp/Identity(Privacy-Friendly)TheServernowhasanidentityforthePeer.TheServerthenasksthehelpoftheADtorunEAP-AKAalgorithms,generatingRAND,AUTN,XRES,CK,andIK.Typically,theADperformsthefirstpartofderivationssothattheauthenticationServergetstheCK'andIK'keysalreadytiedtoaparticularnetworkname.ID,keyderiv.function,networknameRAND,AUTN,XRES,CK',IK'TheServernowhastheneededauthenticationvector.Itgeneratesanephemeralkeypair,andsendsthepublickeyofthatkeypairandthefirstEAPmethodmessagetothePeer.InthemessagetheAT_PUB_ECDHEattributecarriesthepublickeyandtheAT_KDF_FSattributecarriesotherFS-relatedparameters.BothoftheseareskippableattributesthatcanbeignoredifthePeerdoesnotsupportthisextension.EAP-Req/AKA'-ChallengeAT_RAND,AT_AUTN,AT_KDF,AT_KDF_FS,AT_KDF_INPUT,AT_PUB_ECDHE,AT_MACThePeerchecksifitwantstodotheFSextension.Ifyes,itwilleventuallyrespondwithAT_PUB_ECDHEandAT_MAC.Ifnot,itwillignoreAT_PUB_ECDHEandAT_KDF_FSandbaseallcalculationsonbasicEAP-AKA'attributes,continuingjustasinEAP-AKA'perRFC9048rules.Inanycase,thePeerneedstoquerytheauthparametersfromtheUSIMcard.RAND,AUTNCK,IK,RESThePeernowhaseverythingtorespond.IfitwantstoparticipateintheFSextension,itwillthengenerateitskeypair,calculateasharedkeybasedonitskeypairandtheServer'spublickey.Finally,itproceedstoderiveallEAP-AKA'keyvaluesandconstructsafullresponse.EAP-Resp/AKA'-ChallengeAT_RES,AT_PUB_ECDHE,AT_MACTheServernowhasallthenecessaryvalues.ItgeneratestheECDHEsharedsecretandcheckstheRESandMACvaluesreceivedinAT_RESandAT_MAC,respectively.Successrequiresbothtobefoundcorrect.Notethatwhenthisdocumentisused,thekeysgeneratedfromEAP-AKA'arebasedonCK,IK,andtheECDHEvalue.Eveniftherewasanattackerwhoheldthelong-termkey,onlyanactiveattackercouldhavedeterminedthegeneratedsessionkeys;inbasicEAP-AKA'thegeneratedkeysareonlybasedonCKandIK.EAP-SuccessRFC 9678

EAP-AKA' FS

March 2025

Figure 2: EAP-AKA' FS Authentication Process

6.  Extensions to EAP-AKA'

6.1.  AT_PUB_ECDHE

The AT_PUB_ECDHE attribute carries an ECDHE value.

The format of the AT_PUB_ECDHE attribute is shown below.

The fields are as follows:

AT_PUB_ECDHE:

This is set to 152.

Length:

This is the length of the attribute, set as other attributes in EAP-AKA
. The length is
expressed in multiples of 4 bytes. The length includes the attribute type field, the Length field
itself, and the Value field (along with any padding).

[RFC4187]

Value:

This value is the sender's ECDHE public key. The value depends on the AT_KDF_FS attribute
and is calculated as follows:

•

For X25519, the length of this value is 32 bytes, encoded as specified in
[RFC7748]
.

Section 5 of

•

For P-256, the length of this value is 33 bytes, encoded using the compressed form
specified in Section 2.3.3 of

[SEC1]
.

Because the length of the attribute must be a multiple of 4 bytes, the sender pads the Value
field with zero bytes when necessary. To retain the security of the keys, the sender
generate a fresh value for each run of the protocol.

SHALL

6.2.  AT_KDF_FS

The AT_KDF_FS attribute indicates the used or desired FS key generation function, if the FS
extension is used. It will also indicate the used or desired ECDHE group. A new attribute is
needed to carry this information, as AT_KDF carries the basic KDF value that is still used
together with the FS KDF value. The basic KDF value is also used by those EAP Peers that cannot
or do not want to use this extension.

Arkko, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

012301234567890123456789012345678901AT_PUB_ECDHELengthValueRFC 9678

EAP-AKA' FS

March 2025

This document only specifies the behavior relating to the following combinations of basic KDF
values and FS KDF values:

•

the basic KDF value in AT_KDF is 1, as specified in

[RFC5448]

 and

[RFC9048]

 and

•

the FS KDF values in AT_KDF_FS are 1 or 2, as specified below and in Section 6.3.

Any future specifications that add either new basic KDFs or new FS KDF values need to specify
how they are treated and what combinations are allowed. This requirement is an update to how
[RFC5448]

 may be extended in the future.

[RFC9048]

 and

The format of the AT_KDF_FS attribute is shown below.

The fields are as follows:

AT_KDF_FS:

This is set to 153.

Length:

This is the length of the attribute; it

MUST

 be set to 1.

FS Key Derivation Function:

This is an enumerated value representing the FS Key Derivation Function (KDF) that the
Server (or Peer) wishes to use. See Section 6.3 for the functions specified in this document.
Note: this field has a different name space than the similar field in the AT_KDF attribute KDF
defined in

[RFC9048]

.

MUST

 send one or more AT_KDF_FS attributes in the EAP-Request/AKA'-Challenge

Servers
message. These attributes represent the desired functions ordered by preference, with the most
preferred function being the first attribute. The most preferred function is the only one that the
Server includes a public key value for, however. So, for a set of AT_KDF_FS attributes, there is
always only one AT_PUB_ECDHE attribute.

Upon receiving a set of these attributes:

•

If the Peer supports and is willing to use the FS KDF indicated by the first AT_KDF_FS
attribute, and is willing and able to use the extension defined in this document, the function
will be used without any further negotiation.

•

If the Peer does not support this function or is unwilling to use it, it responds to the Server
with an indication that a different function is needed. Similarly, with the negotiation process
defined in

 for AT_KDF, the Peer sends an EAP-Response/AKA'-Challenge message

[RFC9048]

Arkko, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

012301234567890123456789012345678901AT_KDF_FSLengthFSKeyDerivationFunctionRFC 9678

EAP-AKA' FS

March 2025

that contains only one attribute, AT_KDF_FS, with the value set to the desired alternative
function from among the ones suggested by the Server earlier. If there is no suitable
alternative, the Peer has a choice of either falling back to EAP-AKA' or behaving as if the
AUTN had been incorrect and failing authentication (see Figure 3 of
MUST
attributes (except where the duplication is due to a request to change the KDF; see below for
further information).

). The Peer
 fail the authentication if there are any duplicate values within the list of AT_KDF_FS

[RFC4187]

•

If the Peer does not recognize the extension defined in this document or is unwilling to use
it, it ignores the AT_KDF_FS attribute.

Upon receiving an EAP-Response/AKA'-Challenge message with an AT_KDF_FS attribute from the
Peer, the Server checks that the suggested AT_KDF_FS value was one of the alternatives in its
offer. The first AT_KDF_FS value in the message from the Server is not a valid alternative. If the
Peer has replied with the first AT_KDF_FS value, the Server behaves as if the AT_MAC of the
response had been incorrect and fails the authentication. For an overview of the failed
authentication process in the Server side, see Section 3 and Figure 2 in
Server re-sends the EAP-Response/AKA'-Challenge message, but adds the selected alternative to
the beginning of the list of AT_KDF_FS attributes and retains the entire list following it. Note that
this means that the selected alternative appears twice in the set of AT_KDF values. Responding to
the Peer's request to change the FS KDF is the only valid situation where such duplication may
occur.

. Otherwise, the

[RFC4187]

When the Peer receives the new EAP-Request/AKA'-Challenge message, it
requested change, and only the requested change, occurred in the list of AT_KDF_FS attributes. If
so, it continues. If not, it behaves as if AT_MAC were incorrect and fails the authentication. If the
Peer receives multiple EAP-Request/AKA'-Challenge messages with differing AT_KDF_FS
attributes without having requested negotiation, the Peer
incorrect and fail the authentication.

 behave as if AT_MAC were

 check that the

MUST

MUST

6.3.  Forward Secrecy Key Derivation Functions

Two new FS KDF types are defined for "EAP-AKA' with ECDHE and X25519", represented by
value 1, and "EAP-AKA' with ECDHE and P-256", represented by value 2. These values represent a
particular choice of KDF and, at the same time, select an ECDHE group to be used.

The FS KDF type value is only used in the AT_KDF_FS attribute. When the FS extension is used,
the AT_KDF_FS attribute determines how to derive the MK_ECDHE key, K_re key, Master Session
Key (MSK), and Extended Master Session Key (EMSK). The AT_KDF_FS attribute should not be
confused with the different range of KDFs that can be represented in the AT_KDF attribute as
defined in
derive the Master Key (MK), the K_encr key, and the K_aut key.

. When the FS extension is used, the AT_KDF attribute only specifies how to

[RFC9048]

Key derivation in this extension produces exactly the same keys for internal use within one
authentication run as EAP-AKA'
still exactly as it was in EAP-AKA'. The only change to key derivation is in the re-authentication
keys and keys exported out of the EAP method, MSK and EMSK. As a result, EAP-AKA' attributes
such as AT_MAC continue to be usable even when this extension is in use.

 does. For instance, the K_aut that is used in AT_MAC is

[RFC9048]

Arkko, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9678

EAP-AKA' FS

March 2025

When the FS KDF field in the AT_KDF_FS attribute is set to 1 or 2 and the KDF field in the AT_KDF
attribute is set to 1, the MK and accompanying keys are derived as follows:

MK       = PRF'(IK'|CK',"EAP-AKA'"|Identity)
MK_ECDHE = PRF'(IK'|CK'|SHARED_SECRET,"EAP-AKA' FS"|Identity)
K_encr   = MK[0..127]
K_aut    = MK[128..383]
K_re     = MK_ECDHE[0..255]
MSK      = MK_ECDHE[256..767]
EMSK     = MK_ECDHE[768..1279]

An explanation of the notation used above is copied here:

•

[n..m] denotes the substring from bit n to m.

•

PRF' is a new pseudorandom function specified in

[RFC9048]

.

•

K_encr is the encryption key (128 bits).

•

K_aut is the authentication key (256 bits).

•

K_re is the re-authentication key (256 bits).

•

MSK is the Master Session Key (512 bits).

•

EMSK is the Extended Master Session Key (512 bits).

Note: MSK and EMSK are outputs from a successful EAP method run

[RFC3748]
.

The CK and IK are produced by the AKA algorithm. The IK' and CK' are derived as specified in
[RFC9048]

 from the IK and CK.

The value "EAP-AKA'" is an ASCII string that is 8 characters long. It is used as is, without any
trailing NUL characters. Similarly, "EAP-AKA' FS" is an ASCII string that is 11 characters long, also
used as is.

Requirements for how to securely generate, validate, and process the ephemeral public keys
depend on the elliptic curve.

. Requirements are defined in Section 5 of

For P-256, the SHARED_SECRET is the shared secret computed as specified in Section 5.7.1.2 of
[SP-800-56A]
5.6.2.3.4, 5.6.3.1, and 5.6.3.3. At least partial public key validation
ephemeral public keys. The uncompressed y-coordinate can be computed as described in Section
2.3.4 of

, in particular, Sections
 be done for the

[SP-800-56A]

[SEC1]
.

MUST

For X25519, the SHARED_SECRET is the shared secret computed as specified in
[RFC7748]
in

. Both the Peer and the Server

Section 6.1 of [RFC7748]
.

MAY

 check for the zero-value shared secret as specified

Section 6.1 of

Note: If performed inappropriately, the way that the shared secret is tested for zero
can provide an ability for attackers to listen to CPU power usage side channels.
[RFC7748]
Refer to
does not become a problem.

 for a description of how to perform this check in a way that it

Arkko, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9678

EAP-AKA' FS

March 2025

If validation of the other party's ephemeral public key or the shared secret fails, a party
behave as if the current EAP-AKA' process starts again from the beginning.

MUST

The rest of the computation proceeds as defined in

Section 3.3 of [RFC9048]
.

6.4.  ECDHE Groups

The selection of suitable groups for the elliptic curve computation is necessary. The choice of a
group is made at the same time as the decision to use a particular KDF in the AT_KDF_FS
attribute.

For "EAP-AKA' with ECDHE and X25519", the group is the Curve25519 group specified in
[RFC7748]

. The support for this group is

.
REQUIRED

For "EAP-AKA' with ECDHE and P-256", the group is the NIST P-256 group (SEC group secp256r1),
specified in Section 3.2.1.3 of
for this group is

 or alternatively, Section 2.4.2 of

. The support

[SP-800-186]

.
REQUIRED

[SEC2]

The term "support" here means that the group

MUST

 be implemented.

6.5.  Message Processing

This section specifies the changes related to message processing when this extension is used in
EAP-AKA'. It specifies when a message may be transmitted or accepted, which attributes are
allowed in a message, which attributes are required in a message, and other message-specific
details, where those details are different for this extension than the base EAP-AKA' or EAP-AKA
protocol. Unless otherwise specified here, the rules from

[RFC9048]

[RFC4187]

 apply.

 or

6.5.1.  EAP-Request/AKA'-Identity

There are no changes for the EAP-Request/AKA'-Identity, except that the AT_KDF_FS or
AT_PUB_ECDHE attributes
attributes in a received message

 be added to this message. The appearance of these

 be ignored.

MUST NOT

MUST

6.5.2.  EAP-Response/AKA'-Identity

There are no changes for the EAP-Response/AKA'-Identity, except that the AT_KDF_FS or
 be added to this message. The appearance of these
AT_PUB_ECDHE attributes
attributes in a received message
privacy-friendly requirements of
privacy-friendly Peer identifier is using a non-null SUCI

 comply with the
. An example of a compliant way of constructing a

 be ignored. The Peer identifier

MUST
[RFC9190]

[TS.33.501]
.

MUST NOT

SHALL

6.5.3.  EAP-Request/AKA'-Challenge

The Server sends the EAP-Request/AKA'-Challenge on full authentication as specified by
[RFC9048]
[RFC4187]
and checked on reception as specified in
compatibility.

. The attributes AT_RAND, AT_AUTN, and AT_MAC

. They are also necessary for backwards

[RFC4187]

MUST

 and

 be included

Arkko, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9678

EAP-AKA' FS

March 2025

In the EAP-Request/AKA'-Challenge, there is no message-specific data covered by the MAC for the
AT_MAC attribute. The AT_KDF_FS and AT_PUB_ECDHE attributes
AT_PUB_ECDHE attribute carries the Server's public Diffie-Hellman key. If either AT_KDF_FS or
AT_PUB_ECDHE is missing on reception, the Peer
assume that the extension defined in this document is not in use.

 treat it as if neither one was sent and

 be included. The

MUST

MUST

The AT_RESULT_IND, AT_CHECKCODE, AT_IV, AT_ENCR_DATA, AT_PADDING,
AT_NEXT_PSEUDONYM, AT_NEXT_REAUTH_ID, and other attributes may be included as specified
in

Section 9.3 of [RFC4187]
.

When processing this message, the Peer
AT_PUB_ECDHE before processing other attributes. The Peer derives keys and verifies AT_MAC
only if these attributes are verified to be valid. If the Peer is unable or unwilling to perform the
extension specified in this document, it proceeds as defined in
. Finally, if there is an
error, see

 process AT_RAND, AT_AUTN, AT_KDF_FS, and

Section 6.3.1 of [RFC4187]
.

[RFC9048]

MUST

6.5.4.  EAP-Response/AKA'-Challenge

[RFC4187]

The Peer sends an EAP-Response/AKA'-Challenge in response to a valid EAP-Request/AKA'-
Challenge message, as specified by
to perform the extension specified in this protocol, and the Server had made a valid request
involving the attributes specified in Section 6.5.3, the Peer responds per the rules specified
below. Otherwise, the Peer responds as specified in
attributes related to this extension. If the Peer has not received attributes related to this
extension from the Server, and has a policy that requires it to always use this extension, it
behaves as if the AUTN were incorrect and fails the authentication.

[RFC9048]

[RFC9048]

[RFC4187]

 and

 and

 and ignores the

. If the Peer supports and is willing

The AT_MAC attribute
Response/AKA'-Challenge, there is no message-specific data covered by the MAC. The
AT_PUB_ECDHE attribute

 be included and checked as specified in

 be included and carries the Peer's public Diffie-Hellman key.

. In the EAP-

[RFC9048]

MUST

MUST

The AT_RES attribute
this message, the Server
derives keys and verifies AT_MAC only when this attribute is verified to be valid.

 be included and checked as specified in

 process AT_RES before processing other attributes. The Server

[RFC4187]

. When processing

MUST

MUST

If the Server has proposed the use of the extension specified in this protocol, but the Peer
ignores and continues the basic EAP-AKA' authentication, the Server makes a policy decision of
whether this is allowed. If this is allowed, it continues the EAP-AKA' authentication to
completion. If it is not allowed, the Server

 behave as if authentication failed.

MUST

The AT_CHECKCODE, AT_RESULT_IND, AT_IV, AT_ENCR_DATA, and other attributes may be
included as specified in

Section 9.4 of [RFC4187]
.

6.5.5.  EAP-Request/AKA'-Reauthentication

There are no changes for the EAP-Request/AKA'-Reauthentication, but note that the re-
authentication process uses the keys generated in the original EAP-AKA' authentication, which
employs key material from the Diffie-Hellman procedure if the extension specified in this
document is in use.

Arkko, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9678

EAP-AKA' FS

March 2025

6.5.6.  EAP-Response/AKA'-Reauthentication

There are no changes for the EAP-Response/AKA'-Reauthentication, but as discussed in Section
6.5.5, re-authentication is based on the key material generated by EAP-AKA' and the extension
defined in this document.

6.5.7.  EAP-Response/AKA'-Synchronization-Failure

There are no changes for the EAP-Response/AKA'-Synchronization-Failure, except that the
AT_KDF_FS or AT_PUB_ECDHE attributes
these attributes in a received message

 be added to this message. The appearance of

 be ignored.

MUST NOT

MUST

6.5.8.  EAP-Response/AKA'-Authentication-Reject

There are no changes for the EAP-Response/AKA'-Authentication-Reject, except that the
AT_KDF_FS or AT_PUB_ECDHE attributes
these attributes in a received message

 be ignored.

 be added to this message. The appearance of

MUST NOT

MUST

6.5.9.  EAP-Response/AKA'-Client-Error

There are no changes for the EAP-Response/AKA'-Client-Error, except that the AT_KDF_FS or
AT_PUB_ECDHE attributes
attributes in a received message

 be added to this message. The appearance of these

 be ignored.

MUST NOT

MUST

6.5.10.  EAP-Request/AKA'-Notification

There are no changes for the EAP-Request/AKA'-Notification.

6.5.11.  EAP-Response/AKA'-Notification

There are no changes for the EAP-Response/AKA'-Notification.

7.  Security Considerations

This section deals only with changes to security considerations for EAP-AKA' or new information
that has been gathered since the publication of

[RFC9048]
.

As discussed in Section 1, FS is an important countermeasure against adversaries who gain
access to long-term keys. The long-term keys can be best protected with good processes, e.g.,
restricting access to the key material within a factory or among personnel, etc. Even so, not all
attacks can be entirely ruled out. For instance, well-resourced adversaries may be able to coerce
insiders to collaborate, despite any technical protection measures. The zero trust principles
suggest that we assume that breaches are inevitable or have potentially already occurred and
that we need to minimize the impact of these breaches (see
breach is key compromise or key exfiltration.

). One type of

[NIST-ZT]

[NSA-ZT]

 and

Arkko, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9678

EAP-AKA' FS

March 2025

If a mechanism without ephemeral key exchange (such as 5G-AKA or EAP-AKA') is used, the
effects of key compromise are devastating. There are serious consequences to not properly
providing FS for the key establishment, for the control plane and the user plane, and for both
directions:

1.

An attacker can decrypt 5G communication that they previously recorded.

2.

A passive attacker can eavesdrop (decrypt) all future 5G communication.

3.

An active attacker can impersonate the User Equipment (UE) or the network and inject
messages in an ongoing 5G connection between the real UE and the real network.

At the time of writing, best practice security is to mandate FS (as is done in Wi-Fi Protected
Access 3 (WPA3), EAP-TLS 1.3, EAP-TTLS 1.3, Internet Key Exchange Protocol Version 2 (IKEv2),
Secure Shell (SSH), QUIC, WireGuard, Signal, etc.). In deployments, it is recommended that EAP-
AKA methods without FS be phased out in the long term.

The FS extension provides assistance against passive attacks from attackers that have
compromised the key material on USIM cards. Passive attacks are attractive for attackers
performing large-scale pervasive monitoring as they require far fewer resources and are much
harder to detect. The extension also provides protection against active attacks as the attacker is
forced to be on-path during the AKA run and subsequent communication between the parties.
Without FS, an active attacker that has compromised the long-term key can inject messages in a
connection between the real Peer and the real Server without being on-path. This extension is
most useful when implemented in a context where the MSK or EMSK are used in protocols not
, the session keys produced by IKEv2
providing FS. For instance, if used with IKEv2
will in any case have this property, so the improvements from the use of EAP-AKA' FS are not
that useful. However, typical link-layer usage of EAP does not involve running another key
exchange with forward secrecy. Therefore, using EAP to authenticate access to a network is one
situation where the extension defined in this document can be helpful.

[RFC7296]

The FS extension generates key material using the ECDHE exchange in order to gain the FS
property. This means that once an EAP-AKA' authentication run ends, the session that it was used
to protect is closed, and the corresponding keys are destroyed. Even someone who has recorded
all of the data from the authentication run and session and gets access to all of the AKA long-
term keys cannot reconstruct the keys used to protect the session or any previous session,
without doing a brute-force search of the session key space.

Even if a compromise of the long-term keys has occurred, FS is still provided for all future
sessions, as long as the attacker does not become an active attacker.

The extension does not provide protection against active attackers that mount an on-path attack
on future EAP-AKA' runs and have access to the long-term key. They will be able to eavesdrop on
the traffic protected by the resulting session key(s). Still, past sessions where FS was in use
remain protected.

Using EAP-AKA' FS once provides FS. FS limits the effect of key leakage in one direction
(compromise of a key at time T2 does not compromise some key at time T1 where T1 < T2).
Protection in the other direction (compromise at time T1 does not compromise keys at time T2)

Arkko, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9678

EAP-AKA' FS

March 2025

can be achieved by rerunning ECDHE frequently. If a long-term authentication key has been
compromised, rerunning EAP-AKA' FS gives protection against passive attackers. Using the terms
in
exfiltration. Frequently rerunning EC(DHE) forces an attacker to do dynamic key exfiltration (or
content exfiltration).

, FS without rerunning ECDHE does not stop an attacker from doing static key

[RFC7624]

7.1.  Deployment Considerations

Achieving FS requires that, when a connection is closed, each endpoint
the ephemeral keys used by the connection but also any information that could be used to
recompute those keys.

MUST

 destroy not only

Similarly, other parts of the system matter. For instance, when the keys generated by EAP are
transported to a pass-through authenticator, such transport must also provide forward secure
encryption with respect to the long-term keys used to establish its security. Otherwise, an
adversary may attack the transport connection used to carry keys from EAP, and use this method
to gain access to current and past keys from EAP, which, in turn, would lead to the compromise
of anything protected by those EAP keys.

Of course, these considerations apply to any EAP method, not only this one.

7.2.  Security Properties

The following security properties of EAP-AKA' are impacted through this extension:

Protected ciphersuite negotiation:

EAP-AKA' has a negotiation mechanism for selecting the KDFs, and this mechanism has been
extended by the extension specified in this document. The resulting mechanism continues to
be secure against bidding-down attacks.

There are two specific needs in the negotiation mechanism:

Negotiating KDFs within the extension:

The negotiation mechanism allows changing the offered KDF, but the change is visible in
the final EAP-Request/AKA'-Challenge message that the Server sends to the Peer. This
message is authenticated via the AT_MAC attribute, and carries both the chosen
alternative and the initially offered list. The Peer refuses to accept a change it did not
initiate. As a result, both parties are aware that a change is being made and what the
original offer was.

Negotiating the use of this extension:

This extension is offered by the Server through presenting the AT_KDF_FS and
AT_PUB_ECDHE attributes in the EAP-Request/AKA'-Challenge message. These attributes
are protected by AT_MAC, so attempts to change or omit them by an adversary will be
detected.

Arkko, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9678

EAP-AKA' FS

March 2025

These attempts will be detected, except of course, if the adversary holds the long-term key
and is willing to engage in an active attack. For instance, such an attack can forge the
negotiation process so that no FS will be provided. However, as noted above, an attacker
with these capabilities will, in any case, be able to impersonate any party in the protocol
and perform on-path attacks. That is not a situation that can be improved by a technical
solution. However, as discussed in the Introduction, even an attacker with access to the
long-term keys is required to be on-path on each AKA run and subsequent
communication, which makes mass surveillance more laborious.

The security properties of the extension also depend on a policy choice. As discussed in
Section 6.5.4, both the Peer and the Server make a policy decision of what to do when it
was willing to perform the extension specified in this protocol, but the other side does not
wish to use the extension. Allowing this has the benefit of allowing backwards
compatibility to equipment that did not yet support the extension. When the extension is
not supported or negotiated by the parties, no FS can obviously be provided.

If turning off the extension specified in this protocol is not allowed by policy, the use of
legacy equipment that does not support this protocol is no longer possible. This may be
appropriate when, for instance, support for the extension is sufficiently widespread or
required in a particular version of a mobile network.

Key derivation:

This extension provides FS. As described in several places in this specification, this can be
roughly summarized as follows: an attacker with access to long-term keys is unable to obtain
session keys of ended past sessions, assuming these sessions deleted all relevant session key
material. This extension does not change the properties related to re-authentication. No new
Diffie-Hellman run is performed during the re-authentication allowed by EAP-AKA'. However,
if this extension was in use when the original EAP-AKA' authentication was performed, the
keys used for re-authentication (K_re) are based on the Diffie-Hellman keys; hence, they
continue to be equally safe against exposure of the long-term key as the original
authentication.

7.3.  Denial of Service

It is worthwhile to discuss Denial-of-Service (DoS) attacks and their impact on this protocol. The
calculations involved in public key cryptography require computing power, which could be used
in an attack to overpower either the Peer or the Server. While some forms of DoS attacks are
always possible, the following factors help mitigate the concerns relating to public key
cryptography and EAP-AKA' FS.

•

In a 5G context, other parts of the connection setup involve public key cryptography, so
while performing additional operations in EAP-AKA' is an additional concern, it does not
change the overall situation. As a result, the relevant system components need to be
dimensioned appropriately, and detection and management mechanisms to reduce the
effect of attacks need to be in place.

Arkko, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9678

EAP-AKA' FS

March 2025

•

This specification is constructed so that it is possible to have a separation between the USIM
and Peer on the client side and between the Server and AD on the network side. This
ensures that the most sensitive (or legacy) system components cannot be the target of the
attack. For instance, EAP-AKA' and public key cryptography both take place in the phone and
not the low-power USIM card.

•

EAP-AKA' has been designed so that the first actual message in the authentication process
comes from the Server, and that this message will not be sent unless the user has been
identified as an active subscriber of the operator in question. While the initial identity can
be spoofed before authentication has succeeded, this reduces the efficiency of an attack.

•

Finally, this memo specifies an order in which computations and checks must occur. For
instance, when processing the EAP-Request/AKA'-Challenge message, the AKA authentication
must be checked and succeed before the Peer proceeds to calculating or processing the FS-
related parameters (see Section 6.5.4). The same is true of an EAP-Response/AKA'-Challenge
(see Section 6.5.4). This ensures that the parties need to show possession of the long-term
key in some way, and only then will the FS calculations become active. This limits the DoS to
specific, identified subscribers. While botnets and other forms of malicious parties could
take advantage of actual subscribers and their key material, at least such attacks are:

a.

limited in terms of subscribers they control, and

b.

identifiable for the purposes of blocking the affected subscribers.

7.4.  Identity Privacy

As specified in Section 6.5, the Peer identity sent in the Identity Response message needs to
follow the privacy-friendly requirements in

[RFC9190]
.

7.5.  Unprotected Data and Privacy

Unprotected data and metadata can reveal sensitive information and need to be selected with
care. In particular, this applies to AT_KDF, AT_KDF_FS, AT_PUB_ECDHE, and AT_KDF_INPUT.
AT_KDF, AT_KDF_FS, and AT_PUB_ECDHE reveal the used cryptographic algorithms; if these
depend on the Peer identity, they leak information about the Peer. AT_KDF_INPUT reveals the
network name, although that is done on purpose to bind the authentication to a particular
context.

An attacker observing network traffic may use the above types of information for traffic flow
analysis or to track an endpoint.

7.6.  Forward Secrecy within AT_ENCR

The keys K_encr and K_aut are calculated and used before the shared secret from the ephemeral
key exchange is available.

K_encr and K_aut are used to encrypt and calculate a MAC in the EAP-Req/AKA'-Challenge
message, especially the DH gx ephemeral pub key. At that point, the Server does not yet have the
corresponding gy from the Peer and cannot compute the shared secret. K_aut is then used as the
authentication key for the shared secret.

Arkko, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9678

EAP-AKA' FS

March 2025

However, for K_encr, none of the encrypted data sent in the EAP-Req/AKA'-Challenge message in
the AT_ENCR attribute will be a forward secret. That data may include re-authentication
pseudonyms, so an adversary compromising the long-term key would be able to link re-
authentication protocol runs when pseudonyms are used, within a sequence of runs followed
after a full EAP-AKA' authentication. No such linking would be possible across different full
authentication runs. If the pseudonym linkage risk is not acceptable, one way to avoid the
linkage is to always require full EAP-AKA' authentication.

7.7.  Post-Quantum Considerations

As of the publication of this document, it is unclear when or even if a quantum computer of
sufficient size and power to exploit ECC will exist. Deployments that need to consider risks
decades into the future should transition to Post-Quantum Cryptography (PQC) in the not-too-
distant future. Other systems may employ PQC when the quantum threat is more imminent.
Current PQC algorithms have limitations compared to ECC, and the data sizes could be
problematic for some constrained systems. If a Cryptographically Relevant Quantum Computer
(CRQC) is built, it could recover the SHARED_SECRET from the ECDHE public keys.

However, this would not affect the ability of EAP-AKA', with or without this extension, to
authenticate properly. As symmetric key cryptography is safe even if CRQCs are built, an
adversary still will not be able to disrupt authentication as it requires computing a correct
AT_MAC value. This computation requires the K_aut key, which is based on the MK, CK', and IK',
but not SHARED_SECRET.

Other output keys do include SHARED_SECRET via MK_ECDHE, but they still include the CK' and
IK', which are entirely based on symmetric cryptography. As a result, an adversary with a
quantum computer still cannot compute the other output keys either.

However, if the adversary has also obtained knowledge of the long-term key, they could then
compute the CK', IK', SHARED_SECRET, and any derived output keys. This means that the
introduction of a powerful enough quantum computer would disable this protocol extension's
ability to provide the forward secrecy capability. This would make it necessary to update the
current ECC algorithms in this document to PQC algorithms. This document does not add such
algorithms, but a future update can do that.

Symmetric algorithms used in EAP-AKA' FS, such as HMAC-SHA-256 and the algorithms used to
generate AT_AUTN and AT_RES, are practically secure against even large, robust quantum
computers. EAP-AKA' FS is currently only specified for use with ECDHE key exchange algorithms,
but use of any Key Encapsulation Method (KEM), including PQC KEMs, can be specified in the
future. While the key exchange is specified with terms of the Diffie-Hellman protocol, the key
exchange adheres to a KEM interface. AT_PUB_ECDHE would then contain either the ephemeral
public key of the Server or the SHARED_SECRET encapsulated with the Server's public key. Note
that the use of a KEM might require other changes, such as including the ephemeral public key
of the Server in the key derivation to retain the property that both parties contribute
randomness to the session key.

Arkko, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9678

EAP-AKA' FS

March 2025

8.  IANA Considerations

This extension of EAP-AKA' shares its attribute space and subtypes with the following:

•

"Extensible Authentication Protocol Method for Global System for Mobile Communications
(GSM) Subscriber Identity Modules (EAP-SIM)"

[RFC4186]

,

•

"Extensible Authentication Protocol Method for 3rd Generation Authentication and Key
Agreement (EAP-AKA)"

[RFC4187]

, and

•

"Improved Extensible Authentication Protocol Method for 3GPP Mobile Network
Authentication and Key Agreement (EAP-AKA')"

[RFC9048]

.

IANA has assigned two new values in the "Attribute Types (Skippable Attributes 128-255)"
registry under the "EAP-AKA and EAP-SIM Parameters" group as follows:

152:

AT_PUB_ECDHE (Section 6.1)

153:

AT_KDF_FS (Section 6.2)

IANA has also created the "EAP-AKA' AT_KDF_FS Key Derivation Function Values" registry to
represent FS KDF types. The "EAP-AKA' with ECDHE and X25519" and "EAP-AKA' with ECDHE
and P-256" types (1 and 2, see Section 6.3) have been assigned, along with one reserved value.
The initial contents of this registry are illustrated in Table 1; new values can be created through
the Specification Required policy
. Expert reviewers should ensure that the referenced
specification is clearly identified and stable and that the proposed addition is reasonable for the
given category of allocation.

[RFC8126]

Value

Description

Reserved

Reference

RFC 9678

EAP-AKA' with ECDHE and X25519

RFC 9678

EAP-AKA' with ECDHE and P-256

RFC 9678

0

1

2

3-65535

Unassigned

RFC 9678

Table 1: EAP-AKA' AT_KDF_FS Key Derivation Function Values
Registry Initial Contents

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

Arkko, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9678

EAP-AKA' FS

March 2025

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

[RFC3748]

[RFC4187]

[RFC5448]

[RFC7624]

[RFC7748]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

[RFC9048]

[SEC1]

[SEC2]

[SP-800-186]

,

Aboba, B. Blunk, L. Vollbrecht, J. Carlson, J.
Authentication Protocol (EAP)" RFC 3748 DOI 10.17487/RFC3748
,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3748>
.

, and

,

,

H. Levkowetz, Ed. "Extensible

,

, June 2004,

 and

H. Haverinen "Extensible Authentication Protocol Method for 3rd

Arkko, J.
Generation Authentication and Key Agreement (EAP-AKA)" RFC 4187 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4187>
10.17487/RFC4187

, January 2006,

,

.

,

,

,

, and

Arkko, J. Lehtovirta, V.
,
Protocol Method for 3rd Generation Authentication and Key Agreement (EAP-
AKA')" RFC 5448 DOI 10.17487/RFC5448
,
info/rfc5448>

P. Eronen "Improved Extensible Authentication

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, May 2009,

,

.

,

,
,

Barnes, R. Schneier, B. Jennings, C. Hardie, T. Trammell, B. Huitema, C.
,
Borkmann "Confidentiality in the Face of Pervasive Surveillance: A Threat
Model and Problem Statement" RFC 7624 DOI 10.17487/RFC7624
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7624>

,
.

,

,

, August 2015,

, and

D.

Langley, A. Hamburg, M.
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC7748

S. Turner "Elliptic Curves for Security" RFC 7748
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7748>
.

,

,

, January 2016,

, and

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

, June

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

,

Arkko, J. Lehtovirta, V. Torvinen, V.
, and
Authentication Protocol Method for 3GPP Mobile Network Authentication and
Key Agreement (EAP-AKA')" RFC 9048 DOI 10.17487/RFC9048
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9048>

P. Eronen "Improved Extensible

, October 2021,

,

,

.

Standards for Efficient Cryptography "SEC 1: Elliptic Curve Cryptography"
,
Version 2.0

<https://www.secg.org/sec1-v2.pdf>

, May 2009,

.

,

Standards for Efficient Cryptography "SEC 2: Recommended Elliptic Curve
,
Domain Parameters" Version 2.0
v2.pdf>

<https://www.secg.org/sec2-

, January 2010,

,

.

,

,

Chen, L. Moody, D. Randall, K. Regenscheid, A.
"Recommendations for Discrete Logarithm-based Cryptography: Elliptic Curve
Domain Parameters" NIST SP 800-186 DOI 10.6028/NIST.SP.800-186
, February
,
2023,

<https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-186>

A. Robinson

, and

,

,

.

,

Arkko, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9678

EAP-AKA' FS

March 2025

[SP-800-56A]

,

,

Barker, E. Chen, L. Roginsky, A. Vassilev, A.
for Pair-Wise Key-Establishment Schemes Using Discrete Logarithm
Cryptography" NIST SP 800-56A DOI 10.6028/NIST.SP.800-56Ar3
,
<https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-56Ar3>

, and

,

,

.

R. Davis "Recommendation

,

, April 2018,

9.2.  Informative References

[DOW1992]

[Heist2015]

[NIST-ZT]

[NSA-ZT]

[RFC4186]

[RFC5216]

[RFC7258]

[RFC7296]

[RFC9190]

,

Diffie, W. Van Oorschot, P. C.
authenticated key exchanges" Designs, Codes and Cryptography, vol. 2, pp.
107-125 DOI 10.1007/BF00124891
BF00124891>

M. J. Wiener "Authentication and

<https://doi.org/10.1007/

, and
,

, June 1992,

,

,

.

J. Begley "The Great SIM Heist"
Scahill, J.
,
theintercept.com/2015/02/19/great-sim-heist/>

 and

, February 2015,
.

<https://

National Institute of Standards and Technology "Implementing a Zero Trust
<https://www.nccoe.nist.gov/sites/
Architecture" NIST SP 1800-35
default/files/2024-07/zta-nist-sp-1800-35-preliminary-draft-4.pdf>

, July 2024,

,

,

.

National Security Agency "Embracing a Zero Trust Security Model"
2021,
CSI_EMBRACING_ZT_SECURITY_MODEL_UOO115131-21.PDF>

<https://media.defense.gov/2021/Feb/25/2002588479/-1/-1/0/

.

,

, February

 and

J. Salowey, Ed. "Extensible Authentication Protocol

Haverinen, H., Ed.
Method for Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM) Subscriber
Identity Modules (EAP-SIM)" RFC 4186 DOI 10.17487/RFC4186
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4186>

,

,

,

.

, January 2006,

Simon, D. Aboba, B.
,
5216 DOI 10.17487/RFC5216
,
rfc5216>

, and

.

R. Hurst "The EAP-TLS Authentication Protocol" RFC

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,
, March 2008,

 and

Farrell, S.
,
7258 DOI 10.17487/RFC7258
,
, May 2014,
rfc7258>

.

H. Tschofenig "Pervasive Monitoring Is an Attack" BCP 188 RFC

,

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

Kaufman, C. Hoffman, P. Nir, Y. Eronen, P.
Exchange Protocol Version 2 (IKEv2)" STD 79 RFC 7296 DOI 10.17487/RFC7296
October 2014,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7296>
.

T. Kivinen "Internet Key

, and
,

,

,

,

,

,

Preuß Mattsson, J.
Authentication Protocol with TLS 1.3" RFC 9190 DOI 10.17487/RFC9190
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9190>
February 2022,

M. Sethi "EAP-TLS 1.3: Using the Extensible

 and

,

,

,

.

,

[TrustCom2015]

,

,

Arkko, J. Norrman, K. Näslund, M.

, and
AKA Protocol with Perfect Forward Secrecy" IEEE International Conference on
Trust, Security and Privacy in Computing and Communications (TrustCom) DOI
10.1109/Trustcom.2015.506
2015.506>

,
<https://doi.org/10.1109/Trustcom.

B. Sahlin "A USIM Compatible 5G

, August 2015,

,

,

.

Arkko, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9678

EAP-AKA' FS

March 2025

[TS.33.501]

,

3GPP "Security architecture and procedures for 5G System" Version 19.0.0
3GPP TS 33.501

, September 2024.

,

,

Acknowledgments

The authors would like to note that the technical solution in this document came out of the
TrustCom paper
Sahlin
as well as

, whose authors were
. This document also uses a lot of material from

J. Arkko K. Norrman M. Näslund
,
,
J. Arkko
[RFC4187]
 and

J. Arkko V. Lehtovirta

[TrustCom2015]

, and
B.
H. Haverinen
,

[RFC5448]

P. Eronen
.

, and

 by

 by

,

,

,

,

,

,

Ben Campbell Meiling Chen Roman Danyliw Linda

The authors would also like to thank
Dunbar Tim Evans Zhang Fu Russ Housley Tero Kivinen Murray Kucherawy Warren Kumari
Eliot Lear Vesa Lehtovirta Kathleen Moriarty Prajwol Kumar Nakarmi Francesca Palombini
,
,
Anand R. Prasad Michael Richardson Göran Rune Bengt Sahlin Joseph Salowey Mohit Sethi
,
Orie Steele Rene Struik Vesa Torvinen Sean Turner Helena Vahidi Mazinani Robert Wilton
,
Paul Wouters Bo Wu Peter Yee
,
interesting discussions in this problem space.

, and many other people at the IETF, GSMA, and 3GPP groups for

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Authors' Addresses

Jari Arkko
Ericsson
FI-02420 Jorvas
Finland
Email:

jari.arkko@piuha.net

Karl Norrman
Ericsson
SE-16483 Stockholm
Sweden
Email:

karl.norrman@ericsson.com

John Preuß Mattsson
Ericsson
SE-164 40 Kista
Sweden
Email:

john.mattsson@ericsson.com

Arkko, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

