Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9668
Standards Track
November 2024
2070-1721
F. Palombini
Ericsson AB

M. Tiloca
RISE AB

R. Höglund
RISE AB

S. Hristozov
Eriptic

G. Selander
Ericsson

RFC 9668
Using Ephemeral Diffie-Hellman Over COSE (EDHOC)
with the Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP)
and Object Security for Constrained RESTful
Environments (OSCORE)

Abstract

The lightweight authenticated key exchange protocol Ephemeral Diffie-Hellman Over COSE
(EDHOC) can be run over the Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP) and used by two peers to
establish a Security Context for the security protocol Object Security for Constrained RESTful
Environments (OSCORE). This document details this use of the EDHOC protocol by specifying a
number of additional and optional mechanisms, including an optimization approach for
combining the execution of EDHOC with the first OSCORE transaction. This combination reduces
the number of round trips required to set up an OSCORE Security Context and to complete an
OSCORE transaction using that Security Context.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9668
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Palombini, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9668

Using EDHOC with CoAP and OSCORE

November 2024

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Terminology

2.  EDHOC Overview

3.  EDHOC Combined with OSCORE

3.1.  EDHOC Option

3.2.  Client Processing

3.2.1.  Processing of the EDHOC + OSCORE Request

3.2.2.  Supporting Block-Wise Transfers

3.3.  Server Processing

3.3.1.  Processing of the EDHOC + OSCORE Request

3.3.2.  Supporting Block-Wise Transfers

3.4.  Example of the EDHOC + OSCORE Request

4.  Use of EDHOC Connection Identifiers with OSCORE

4.1.  Additional Processing of EDHOC Messages

4.1.1.  Initiator Processing of Message 1

4.1.2.  Responder Processing of Message 2

4.1.3.  Initiator Processing of Message 2

5.  Extension and Consistency of Application Profiles

6.  Web Linking

7.  Security Considerations

8.  IANA Considerations

8.1.  CoAP Option Numbers Registry

8.2.  Target Attributes Registry

8.3.  EDHOC Authentication Credential Types Registry

3

4

4

7

9

10

10

11

12

12

13

13

14

14

14

15

15

15

16

18

19

19

19

19

Palombini, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9668

Using EDHOC with CoAP and OSCORE

November 2024

8.4.  Expert Review Instructions

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

20

21

21

22

23

23

Ephemeral Diffie-Hellman Over COSE (EDHOC)
exchange protocol that is specifically intended for use in constrained scenarios. In particular,
EDHOC messages can be transported over the Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP)
and used for establishing a Security Context for Object Security for Constrained RESTful
Environments (OSCORE)

 is a lightweight authenticated key

[RFC8613]
.

[RFC9528]

[RFC7252]

This document details the use of the EDHOC protocol with CoAP and OSCORE and specifies a
number of additional and optional mechanisms. These include an optimization approach that
combines the EDHOC execution with the first OSCORE transaction (see Section 3). This allows for
a minimum number of two round trips necessary to set up the OSCORE Security Context and
complete an OSCORE transaction, e.g., when an Internet of Things (IoT) device gets configured in
a network for the first time.

This optimization is desirable since the number of message exchanges can have a substantial
impact on the latency of conveying the first OSCORE request when using certain radio
technologies.

Without this optimization, it is not possible to achieve the minimum number of two round trips.
This optimization makes it possible since the message_3 of the EDHOC protocol can be made
relatively small (see
data within target MTU sizes.

), thus allowing additional OSCORE-protected CoAP

Section 1.2 of [RFC9528]

The minimum number of two round trips can be achieved only if the default forward message
flow of EDHOC is used, i.e., when a CoAP client acts as EDHOC Initiator and a CoAP server acts as
EDHOC Responder. The performance advantage of using this optimization can be lost when used
in combination with Block-wise transfers
block sizes.

 that rely on specific parameter values and

[RFC7959]

Furthermore, this document defines a number of parameters corresponding to different
information elements of an EDHOC application profile (see Section 6). These parameters can be
specified as target attributes in the link to an EDHOC resource associated with that application
profile, thus enabling an enhanced discovery of such a resource for CoAP clients.

Palombini, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9668

Using EDHOC with CoAP and OSCORE

November 2024

1.1.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

The reader is expected to be familiar with terms and concepts defined in CoAP
Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR)
[RFC9528]
.

[RFC8949]

[RFC8613]

, OSCORE

[RFC7252]
,
, and EDHOC

2.  EDHOC Overview

This section is not normative and summarizes what is specified in
Appendix A.2 of [RFC9528]
sections.

). Thus, it provides a baseline for the enhancements in the subsequent

[RFC9528]

 (specifically

The EDHOC protocol specified in
in a mutually-authenticated way and achieves forward secrecy by using Diffie-Hellman
ephemeral keys. The two peers are denoted as the "Initiator" and "Responder", as the one
sending or receiving the initial EDHOC message_1, respectively.

 allows two peers to agree on a cryptographic secret

[RFC9528]

After successful processing of EDHOC message_3, both peers agree on a cryptographic secret that
can be used to derive further security material and establish an OSCORE Security Context
[RFC8613]
. The Responder can also send an optional EDHOC message_4 in order for the Initiator
to achieve key confirmation, e.g., in deployments where no protected application message is sent
from the Responder to the Initiator.

Appendix A.2 of [RFC9528]
 specifies how to transfer EDHOC over CoAP. That is, the EDHOC data
(i.e., the EDHOC message possibly with a prepended connection identifier) is transported in the
payload of CoAP requests and responses. The default forward message flow of EDHOC consists in
the CoAP client acting as Initiator and the CoAP server acting as Responder (see
). Alternatively, the two roles can be reversed as per the reverse message flow of
of [RFC9528]
Appendix A.2.2 of [RFC9528]
EDHOC (see
). In the rest of this document, EDHOC messages are
considered to be transferred over CoAP.

Appendix A.2.1

Figure 1 shows a successful execution of EDHOC, with a CoAP client and a CoAP server running
EDHOC as Initiator and Responder, respectively. In particular, it extends Figure 10 from
Appendix A.2.1 of [RFC9528]
 by highlighting when the two peers perform EDHOC verification
and establish the OSCORE Security Context, and by adding an exchange of OSCORE-protected
CoAP messages after completing the EDHOC execution.

Palombini, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9668

Using EDHOC with CoAP and OSCORE

November 2024

That is, the client sends a POST request to a reserved EDHOC resource at the server, by default at
the Uri-Path "/.well-known/edhoc". The request payload consists of the CBOR simple value true
(0xf5) concatenated with EDHOC message_1, which also includes the EDHOC connection
identifier C_I of the client encoded as per
Format application/cid-edhoc+cbor-seq.

. The request has Content-

Section 3.3 of [RFC9528]

This triggers the EDHOC execution at the server, which replies with a 2.04 (Changed) response.
The response payload consists of EDHOC message_2, which also includes the EDHOC connection
identifier C_R of the server encoded as per
Format application/edhoc+cbor-seq.

. The response has Content-

Section 3.3 of [RFC9528]

Finally, the client sends a POST request to the same EDHOC resource used earlier when it sent
EDHOC message_1. The request payload consists of the EDHOC connection identifier C_R encoded
as per
Format application/cid-edhoc+cbor-seq.

 concatenated with EDHOC message_3. The request has Content-

Section 3.3 of [RFC9528]

After this exchange takes place, and after successful verifications as specified in the EDHOC
protocol, the client and server can derive an OSCORE Security Context as defined in
of [RFC9528]
as per
ID of the client (see
the OSCORE option of the OSCORE Request (see

. After that, the client and server can use OSCORE to protect their communications
. Note that the EDHOC connection identifier C_R is used as the OSCORE Sender

). Therefore, C_R is transported in the 'kid' field of
).

Appendix A.1 of [RFC9528]

Section 6.1 of [RFC8613]

[RFC8613]

Appendix A.1

The client and server are required to agree in advance on certain information and parameters
describing how they should use EDHOC. These are specified in an application profile associated
with the EDHOC resource addressed (see

Section 3.9 of [RFC9528]

).

Palombini, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9668

Using EDHOC with CoAP and OSCORE

November 2024

Figure 1: Sequential Flow of EDHOC and OSCORE with the Optional message_4 Included

Palombini, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

CoAPclientCoAPserver(EDHOCInitiator)(EDHOCResponder)EDHOCRequestHeader:0.02(POST)Uri-Path:"/.well-known/edhoc"Content-Format:application/cid-edhoc+cbor-seqPayload:true,EDHOCmessage_1EDHOCResponseHeader:2.04(Changed)Content-Format:application/edhoc+cbor-seqPayload:EDHOCmessage_2EDHOCverificationEDHOCRequestHeader:0.02(POST)Uri-Path:"/.well-known/edhoc"Content-Format:application/cid-edhoc+cbor-seqPayload:C_R,EDHOCmessage_3EDHOCverification+OSCORESecCtxDerivationEDHOCResponseHeader:2.04(Changed)Content-Format:application/edhoc+cbor-seqPayload:EDHOCmessage_4OSCORESecCtxDerivationOSCORERequestHeader:0.02(POST)OSCORE:{...;kid:C_R}Payload:OSCORE-protecteddataOSCOREResponseHeader:2.04(Changed)OSCORE:{...}Payload:OSCORE-protecteddataRFC 9668

Using EDHOC with CoAP and OSCORE

November 2024

The sequential flow of EDHOC and OSCORE (where EDHOC runs first and OSCORE is used after)
takes three round trips to complete, as shown in Figure 1.

Section 3 defines an optimization for combining EDHOC with the first OSCORE transaction. This
reduces the number of round trips required to set up an OSCORE Security Context and complete
an OSCORE transaction using that Security Context.

3.  EDHOC Combined with OSCORE

This section defines an optimization for combining the EDHOC message exchange with the first
OSCORE transaction, thus minimizing the number of round trips between the two peers to the
absolute possible minimum of two round trips.

To this end, this approach can be used only if the default forward message flow of EDHOC is
used, i.e., when the client acts as Initiator and the server acts as Responder. The same is not
possible in the case with reversed roles as per the reverse message flow of EDHOC.

When running the sequential flow of Section 2, the client has all the information to derive the
OSCORE Security Context already after receiving EDHOC message_2 and before sending EDHOC
message_3.

Hence, the client can potentially send both EDHOC message_3 and the subsequent OSCORE
Request at the same time. On a semantic level, this requires sending two REST requests at once as
shown in Figure 2.

Palombini, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9668

Using EDHOC with CoAP and OSCORE

November 2024

Figure 2: EDHOC and OSCORE Combined

To this end, the specific approach defined in this section consists of sending a single EDHOC +
OSCORE request, which conveys the pair (C_R, EDHOC message_3) within an OSCORE-protected
CoAP message.

That is, the EDHOC + OSCORE request is composed of the following two parts combined together
in a single CoAP message. The steps for processing the EDHOC + OSCORE request and the two
parts combined in the request itself are defined in Sections 3.2.1 and 3.3.1.

•

The OSCORE Request from Figure 1, which, in this case, is also sent to a protected resource
with the correct CoAP method and options intended for accessing that resource.

Palombini, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

CoAPclientCoAPserver(EDHOCInitiator)(EDHOCResponder)EDHOCRequestHeader:0.02(POST)Uri-Path:"/.well-known/edhoc"Content-Format:application/cid-edhoc+cbor-seqPayload:true,EDHOCmessage_1EDHOCResponseHeader:2.04(Changed)Content-Format:application/edhoc+cbor-seqPayload:EDHOCmessage_2EDHOCverification+OSCORESecCtxDerivationEDHOC+OSCORERequestHeader:0.02(POST)OSCORE:{...;kid:C_R}Payload:EDHOCmessage_3+OSCORE-protecteddataEDHOCverification+OSCORESecCtxDerivationOSCOREResponseHeader:2.04(Changed)OSCORE:{...}Payload:OSCORE-protecteddataRFC 9668

Using EDHOC with CoAP and OSCORE

November 2024

•

EDHOC data consisting of the pair (C_R, EDHOC message_3) required for completing the
EDHOC session transported as follows:

Section 6.1 of [RFC8613]

◦
C_R is the OSCORE Sender ID of the client; hence, it is transported in the 'kid' field of the
). Unlike the sequential workflow shown in
OSCORE option (see
Figure 1, C_R is not transported in the payload of the EDHOC + OSCORE request.
◦
EDHOC message_3 is transported in the payload of the EDHOC + OSCORE request and
prepended to the payload of the OSCORE Request. This is because EDHOC message_3 may
be too large to be included in a CoAP option, e.g., when conveying a large public key
certificate chain in the ID_CRED_I field (see
large External Authorization Data in the EAD_3 field (see

Section 3.5.3 of [RFC9528]

Section 3.8 of [RFC9528]

), or when conveying

).

The rest of this section specifies how to transport the data in the EDHOC + OSCORE request and
their processing order. In particular, the use of this approach is explicitly signalled by including
an EDHOC option (Section 3.1) in the EDHOC + OSCORE request. The processing of the EDHOC +
OSCORE request is specified in Section 3.2 for the client side and in Section 3.3 for the server side.

3.1.  EDHOC Option

This section defines the EDHOC option. This option is used in a CoAP request to signal that the
request payload conveys both an EDHOC message_3 and OSCORE-protected data combined
together.

The EDHOC option has the properties summarized in Table 1, which extends Table 4 of
[RFC7252]
. The option is Critical, Safe-to-Forward, and part of the Cache-Key. The option
occur at most once and
documents may update the definition of the option by expanding its semantics and specifying
admitted values.) The option is intended only for CoAP requests and is of Class U for OSCORE
[RFC8613]
.

 be empty. If any value is sent, the recipient

MUST

MUST

MUST

 ignore it. (Future

No.

21

C

x

U N R Name

Format

Length Default

EDHOC

Empty

0

(none)

Table 1: The EDHOC Option. C=Critical, U=Unsafe, N=NoCacheKey,
R=Repeatable

The presence of this option means that the message payload also contains EDHOC data that must
be extracted and processed as defined in Section 3.3 before the rest of the message can be
processed.

Figure 3 shows an example of a CoAP message that is transported over UDP and that contains
both the EDHOC data and the OSCORE ciphertext using the newly defined EDHOC option for
signalling.

Palombini, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9668

Using EDHOC with CoAP and OSCORE

November 2024

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|Ver| T |  TKL  |      Code     |          Message ID           |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| Token (if any, TKL bytes) ...
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| Observe Option| OSCORE Option ...
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| EDHOC Option  | Other Options (if any) ...
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1| Payload ...
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
Figure 3: Example of a CoAP Message Containing the Combined EDHOC and OSCORE Data,
Signalled by the EDHOC Option and Transported over UDP

3.2.  Client Processing

This section describes the processing on the client side.

3.2.1.  Processing of the EDHOC + OSCORE Request

The client prepares an EDHOC + OSCORE request as follows.

Step 1.

Step 2.

Compose EDHOC message_3 into EDHOC_MSG_3 as per

Section 5.4.2 of [RFC9528]

.

Establish the new OSCORE Security Context and use it to encrypt the original CoAP
request as per

Section 8.1 of [RFC8613]
.

Note that the OSCORE ciphertext is not computed over EDHOC message_3, which is not
protected by OSCORE. That is, the result of this step is the OSCORE Request as in Figure
1.

Step 3.

Build COMB_PAYLOAD as the concatenation of EDHOC_MSG_3 and OSCORE_PAYLOAD
in the order of COMB_PAYLOAD = EDHOC_MSG_3 | OSCORE_PAYLOAD, where | denotes
byte string concatenation and:

•

Section 5.4.1 of [RFC9528]

EDHOC_MSG_3 is the binary encoding of EDHOC message_3 resulting from Step 1.
As per
CIPHERTEXT_3, which is a CBOR byte string. Therefore, EDHOC_MSG_3 is the
binary encoding of CIPHERTEXT_3.

, EDHOC message_3 consists of one CBOR data item

•

OSCORE_PAYLOAD is the OSCORE ciphertext of the OSCORE-protected CoAP request
resulting from Step 2.

Step 4.

Compose the EDHOC + OSCORE request, as the OSCORE-protected CoAP request
resulting from Step 2, where the payload is replaced with COMB_PAYLOAD built at Step
3.

Palombini, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9668

Using EDHOC with CoAP and OSCORE

November 2024

Note that the new payload includes EDHOC message_3, but it does not include the
EDHOC connection identifier C_R. As the client is the EDHOC Initiator, C_R is the
OSCORE Sender ID of the client, which is already specified as the value of the 'kid' field
in the OSCORE option of the request from Step 2; hence, C_R is specified as the value of
the 'kid' field of the EDHOC + OSCORE request.

Step 5.

Include the new EDHOC option defined in Section 3.1 into the EDHOC + OSCORE
request.

The application/cid-edhoc+cbor-seq media type does not apply to this message, whose
media type is unnamed.

Step 6.

Send the EDHOC + OSCORE request to the server.

With the same server, the client
interactions (see
and their EDHOC data pertains to the EDHOC session with the same connection identifier C_R.

), such that they consist of an EDHOC + OSCORE request

 have multiple simultaneous outstanding

Section 4.7 of [RFC7252]

SHOULD NOT

An exception might apply for clients that operate under particular time constraints over
particularly unreliable networks, thus raising the chances to promptly complete the EDHOC
execution with the server through multiple simultaneous EDHOC + OSCORE requests. As
discussed in Section 7, this does not have any impact in terms of security.

3.2.2.  Supporting Block-Wise Transfers

If Block-wise transfers
application request before protecting it as an original message with OSCORE as defined in
Section 4.1.3.4.1 of [RFC8613]
.

 are supported, the client may fragment the first CoAP

[RFC7959]

In such a case, the OSCORE processing in Step 2 of Section 3.2.1 is performed on each inner block
of the first CoAP application request. The following also applies.

•

The client takes the following additional step between Steps 2 and 3 of Section 3.2.1.

Step 2.1.

If the OSCORE-protected request from Step 2 conveys a non-first inner block of the
first CoAP application request (i.e., the Block1 option processed at Step 2 had NUM
different than 0), then the client skips the following steps and sends the OSCORE-
protected request to the server. In particular, the client
EDHOC option in the OSCORE-protected request.

 include the

MUST NOT

•

The client takes the following additional step between Steps 3 and 4 of Section 3.2.1.

Step 3.1.

), the client

If the size of COMB_PAYLOAD exceeds MAX_UNFRAGMENTED_SIZE (see
4.1.3.4.2 of [RFC8613]
MUST
abandon the Block-wise transfer. Then, the client can continue by switching to the
sequential workflow shown in Figure 1. That is, the client first sends EDHOC
message_3 prepended by the EDHOC connection identifier C_R encoded as per
Section 3.3 of [RFC9528]
request once the EDHOC execution is completed.

. Then, the client sends the OSCORE-protected CoAP

 stop processing the request and

Section

MUST

Palombini, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9668

Using EDHOC with CoAP and OSCORE

November 2024

The performance advantage of using the EDHOC + OSCORE request can be lost when used in
combination with Block-wise transfers that rely on specific parameter values and block sizes.
Application policies at the CoAP client can define when and how to detect whether the
performance advantage is lost. If that is the case, they can also define whether to appropriately
adjust the parameter values and block sizes or to fall back on the sequential workflow of EDHOC.

3.3.  Server Processing

This section describes the processing on the server side.

3.3.1.  Processing of the EDHOC + OSCORE Request

In order to process a request containing the EDHOC option, i.e., an EDHOC + OSCORE request, the
server

 perform the following steps.

MUST

Step 1.

Step 2.

Step 3.

Check that the EDHOC + OSCORE request includes the OSCORE option and that the
request payload has the format defined at Step 3 of Section 3.2.1 for COMB_PAYLOAD. If
this is not the case, the server
 reply with a
MUST
4.00 (Bad Request) error response.

 stop processing the request and

MUST

Extract EDHOC message_3 from the payload COMB_PAYLOAD of the EDHOC + OSCORE
request as the first element EDHOC_MSG_3 (see Step 3 of Section 3.2.1).

Take the value of the 'kid' field from the OSCORE option of the EDHOC + OSCORE
request (i.e., the OSCORE Sender ID of the client), and use it as the EDHOC connection
identifier C_R.

Step 4.

Retrieve the correct EDHOC session by using the connection identifier C_R from Step 3.

If the application profile used in the EDHOC session specifies that EDHOC message_4
shall be sent, the server
client error.

 stop the EDHOC processing and consider it failed due to a

MUST

Otherwise, perform the EDHOC processing on the EDHOC message_3 extracted at Step 2
as per
session.

 based on the protocol state of the retrieved EDHOC

Section 5.4.3 of [RFC9528]

The application profile used in the EDHOC session is the same one associated with the
EDHOC resource where the server received the request conveying EDHOC message_1
that started the session. This is relevant in case the server provides multiple EDHOC
resources that may generally refer to different application profiles.

Step 5.

Step 6.

Step 7.

Establish a new OSCORE Security Context associated with the client as per
of [RFC9528]

 using the EDHOC output from Step 4.

Appendix A.1

Extract the OSCORE ciphertext from the payload COMB_PAYLOAD of the EDHOC +
OSCORE request as the second element OSCORE_PAYLOAD (see Step 3 of Section 3.2.1).

Rebuild the OSCORE-protected CoAP request as the EDHOC + OSCORE request, where
the payload is replaced with the OSCORE ciphertext extracted at Step 6. Then, remove
the EDHOC option.

Palombini, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9668

Using EDHOC with CoAP and OSCORE

November 2024

Step 8.

Decrypt and verify the OSCORE-protected CoAP request rebuilt at Step 7 as per
8.2 of [RFC8613]

 by using the OSCORE Security Context established at Step 5.

Section

When the decrypted request is checked for any critical CoAP options (as it is during
 be regarded as an
regular CoAP processing), the presence of an EDHOC option
unprocessed critical option unless it is processed by some further mechanism.

MUST

Step 9.

Deliver the CoAP request resulting from Step 8 to the application.

MUST

If Steps 4 (EDHOC processing) and 8 (OSCORE processing) are both successfully completed, the
server
of EDHOC message_4 as defined in
defined in this document.

 reply with an OSCORE-protected response (see

 is not applicable to the approach

Section 5.4.3 of [RFC9528]

Section 5.5 of [RFC9528]

). The usage

. The server

Section 5.4.3 of [RFC9528]
If Step 4 (EDHOC processing) fails, the server aborts the session as per
and responds with an EDHOC error message with error code 1, which is formatted as defined in
Section 6.2 of [RFC9528]
the present EDHOC session with the client. The CoAP response conveying the EDHOC error
message is not protected with OSCORE. As per
sure that the error message does not reveal sensitive information. The CoAP response conveying
the EDHOC error message
registered in

 have Content-Format set to application/edhoc+cbor-seq

 establish a new OSCORE Security Context from

Section 10.9 of [RFC9528]
.

Section 9.5 of [RFC9528]

, the server has to make

MUST NOT

MUST

If Step 4 (EDHOC processing) is successfully completed but Step 8 (OSCORE processing) fails, the
same OSCORE error handling as defined in

Section 8.2 of [RFC8613]

 applies.

3.3.2.  Supporting Block-Wise Transfers

[RFC7959]
If Block-wise transfers
before any other in Section 3.3.1.

 are supported, the server takes the additional following step

Step 0.

If a Block option is present in the request, then process the Outer Block options
according to
4.1.3.4 of [RFC8613]

 until all blocks of the request have been received (see

[RFC7959]

).

Section

3.4.  Example of the EDHOC + OSCORE Request

Figure 4 shows an example of an EDHOC + OSCORE request transported over UDP. In particular,
the example assumes that:

•

The OSCORE Partial IV in use is 0 consistently with the first request protected with the new
OSCORE Security Context.

•

The OSCORE Sender ID of the client is 0x01.

Section 3.3.3 of [RFC9528]

As per
connection identifier C_R 0x01.

, this straightforwardly corresponds to the EDHOC

Palombini, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9668

Using EDHOC with CoAP and OSCORE

November 2024

Section 3.3.2 of [RFC9528]

As per
same C_R with a value of 0x01 would be encoded on the wire as the CBOR integer 1 (0x01 in
CBOR encoding) and prepended to EDHOC message_3 in the payload of the second EDHOC
request.

, when using the sequential flow shown in Figure 1, the

This results in the following components shown in Figure 4:

OSCORE option value:

0x090001 (3 bytes)

EDHOC option value:

- (0 bytes)

EDHOC message_3:

0x52d5535f3147e85f1cfacd9e78abf9e0a81bbf (19 bytes)

OSCORE ciphertext:

0x612f1092f1776f1c1668b3825e (13 bytes)

   0x44025d1f               ; CoAP 4-byte Header
     00003974               ; Token
     93 090001              ; OSCORE Option
     c0                     ; EDHOC Option
     ff 52d5535f3147e85f1cfacd9e78abf9e0a81bbf
        612f1092f1776f1c1668b3825e
   (46 bytes)

Figure 4: Example of a Protected CoAP Request Combining EDHOC and OSCORE Data

4.  Use of EDHOC Connection Identifiers with OSCORE

The OSCORE Sender/Recipient IDs are the EDHOC connection identifiers (see
[RFC9528]

). This applies also to the optimized workflow defined in Section 3 of this document.

Section 3.3.3 of

Note that the value of the 'kid' field in the OSCORE option of the EDHOC + OSCORE request is both
the server's Recipient ID (i.e., the client's Sender ID) and the EDHOC connection identifier C_R of
the server at Step 3 of Section 3.3.1.

4.1.  Additional Processing of EDHOC Messages

When using EDHOC to establish an OSCORE Security Context, the client and server
the following additional steps during an EDHOC execution, thus extending
[RFC9528]
.

Section 5 of

MUST

 perform

4.1.1.  Initiator Processing of Message 1

The Initiator selects an EDHOC connection identifier C_I as follows.

MUST

 choose a C_I that is neither used in any current EDHOC session as this peer's
The Initiator
EDHOC connection identifier nor the Recipient ID in a current OSCORE Security Context where
the ID Context is not present.

Palombini, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9668

Using EDHOC with CoAP and OSCORE

November 2024

SHOULD NOT

 be the Recipient ID of any current OSCORE Security Context. Note
The chosen C_I
that, unless the two peers concurrently use alternative methods to establish OSCORE Security
Contexts, this allows the Responder to always omit the 'kid context' in the OSCORE option of its
messages sent to the Initiator when protecting those with an OSCORE Security Context where C_I
is the Responder's OSCORE Sender ID (see

Section 6.1 of [RFC8613]

).

4.1.2.  Responder Processing of Message 2

The Responder selects an EDHOC connection identifier C_R as follows.

The Responder

MUST

 choose a C_R that is none of the following:

•

used in any current EDHOC session as this peer's EDHOC connection identifier,

•

equal to the EDHOC connection identifier C_I specified in the EDHOC message_1 of the
present EDHOC session, or

•

the Recipient ID in a current OSCORE Security Context where the ID Context is not present.

SHOULD NOT

The chosen C_R
 be the Recipient ID of any current OSCORE Security Context. Note
that, for a reason analogous to the one given in Section 4.1.1 with C_I, this allows the Initiator to
always omit the 'kid context' in the OSCORE option of its messages sent to the Responder when
protecting those with an OSCORE Security Context where C_R is the Initiator's OSCORE Sender ID
(see

Section 6.1 of [RFC8613]

).

4.1.3.  Initiator Processing of Message 2

If the EDHOC connection identifier C_I is equal to the EDHOC connection identifier C_R specified
in EDHOC message_2, then the Initiator
 abort the session and reply with an EDHOC error
message with error code 1 formatted as defined in

Section 6.2 of [RFC9528]
.

MUST

5.  Extension and Consistency of Application Profiles

It is possible to include the information below in the application profile referred by the client
and server according to the specified consistency rules.

If the server supports the EDHOC + OSCORE request within an EDHOC execution started at a
certain EDHOC resource, then the application profile associated with that resource
SHOULD
explicitly specify support for the EDHOC + OSCORE request.

In the case where the application profile indicates that the server supports the optional EDHOC
), it is still possible to use the optimized workflow based
message_4 (see
on the EDHOC + OSCORE request. However, this means that the server is not going to send
EDHOC message_4 since it is not applicable to the optimized workflow (see Section 3.3.1).

Section 5.5 of [RFC9528]

Also, in the case where the application profile indicates that the server shall send EDHOC
message_4, the application profile
There is no point for the client to use the optimized workflow that is bound to fail (see Section
3.3.1).

 specify support for the EDHOC + OSCORE request.

MUST NOT

Palombini, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9668

Using EDHOC with CoAP and OSCORE

November 2024

6.  Web Linking

Section 10.10 of [RFC9528]
attribute in a web link
[RFC6690]
using the resource type as a filter criterion.

[RFC8288]

 registers the resource type "core.edhoc", which can be used as target

 to an EDHOC resource, e.g., using a link-format document

. This enables clients to discover the presence of EDHOC resources at a server, possibly

At the same time, the application profile associated with an EDHOC resource provides
information describing how the EDHOC protocol can be used through that resource. A client may
become aware of the application profile, e.g., by obtaining its information elements upon
discovering the EDHOC resources at the server. This allows the client to discover the EDHOC
resources whose associated application profile denotes a way of using EDHOC that is most
suitable to the client, e.g., with EDHOC cipher suites or authentication methods that the client
also supports or prefers.

That is, while discovering an EDHOC resource, a client can contextually obtain relevant pieces of
information from the application profile associated with that resource. The resource discovery
can occur by means of a direct interaction with the server or by means of the CoRE Resource
Directory

 where the server may have registered the links to its resources.

[RFC9176]

In order to enable the above, this section defines a number of parameters, each of which can be
optionally specified as a target attribute with the same name in the link to the respective EDHOC
resource or as filter criterion in a discovery request from the client. When specifying these
parameters in a link to an EDHOC resource, the target attribute rt="core.edhoc"
included and the same consistency rules defined in Section 5 for the corresponding information
elements of an application profile

 be followed.

MUST

MUST

 be

The following parameters are defined.

'ed-i':

If present, specifies that the server supports the EDHOC Initiator role, hence the reverse

message flow of EDHOC. A value
MUST

 be ignored by the recipient.

MUST NOT

 be given to this parameter and any present value

'ed-r':

If present, specifies that the server supports the EDHOC Responder role, hence the
 be given to this parameter and any

MUST NOT

forward message flow of EDHOC. A value
present value

 be ignored by the recipient.

MUST

'ed-method':

Specifies an authentication method supported by the server. This parameter

MUST

specify a single value, which is taken from the 'Value' column of the "EDHOC Method Type"
registry defined in
each occurrence specifying an authentication method.

Section 10.3 of [RFC9528]

 occur multiple times, with

. This parameter

MAY

'ed-csuite':

Specifies an EDHOC cipher suite supported by the server. This parameter
specify a single value, which is taken from the 'Value' column of the "EDHOC Cipher Suites"
registry defined in
each occurrence specifying a cipher suite.

Section 10.2 of [RFC9528]

 occur multiple times, with

. This parameter

MUST

MAY

Palombini, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9668

Using EDHOC with CoAP and OSCORE

November 2024

Specifies a type of authentication credential supported by the server. This parameter

'ed-cred-t':
 specify a single value, which is taken from the 'Value' column of the "EDHOC
MUST
Authentication Credential Types" Registry defined in Section 8.3 of this document. This
parameter
MAY
authentication credential.

 occur multiple times, with each occurrence specifying a type of

'ed-idcred-t':

Specifies a type of identifier supported by the server for identifying authentication

credentials. This parameter
column of the "COSE Header Parameters" registry
MAY
authentication credentials.

MUST

 specify a single value, which is taken from the 'Label'

[COSE.Header.Parameters]

. This parameter

 occur multiple times, with each occurrence specifying a type of identifier for

Note that the values in the 'Label' column of the "COSE Header Parameters" registry are
strongly typed. On the contrary, CoRE Link Format is weakly typed; thus, it does not
distinguish between, for instance, the string value "-10" and the integer value -10. Therefore, if
responses in CoRE Link Format are returned, string values that look like an integer are not
supported. Thus, such values

 be used in the 'ed-idcred-t' parameter.

MUST NOT

'ed-ead':

Specifies the support of the server for an External Authorization Data (EAD) item (see
 specify a single value, which is taken from the
Section 10.5 of

Section 3.8 of [RFC9528]
'Label' column of the "EDHOC External Authorization Data" registry defined in
[RFC9528]
ead_label of an EAD item that the server supports.

 occur multiple times, with each occurrence specifying the

). This parameter

. This parameter

MUST

MAY

'ed-comb-req':

If present, specifies that the server supports the EDHOC + OSCORE request

defined in Section 3. A value
MUST

 be ignored by the recipient.

MUST NOT

 be given to this parameter and any present value

Future documents may update the definition of the parameters 'ed-i', 'ed-r', and 'ed-comb-req' by
expanding their semantics and specifying what they can take as value.

The example in Figure 5 shows how a client discovers one EDHOC resource at a server and
obtains information elements from the respective application profile. The CoRE Link Format
notation from

Section 5 of [RFC6690]

 is used.

REQ: GET /.well-known/core

RES: 2.05 Content
    </sensors/temp>;osc,
    </sensors/light>;if=sensor,
    </.well-known/edhoc>;rt=core.edhoc;ed-csuite=0;ed-csuite=2;
        ed-method=0;ed-cred-t=0;ed-cred-t=1;ed-idcred-t=4;
        ed-i;ed-r;ed-comb-req

Figure 5: The Web Link

Palombini, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9668

Using EDHOC with CoAP and OSCORE

November 2024

7.  Security Considerations

[RFC8613]
The same security considerations from OSCORE
document. In addition, the following considerations apply.

 and EDHOC

[RFC9528]

 hold for this

SHOULD NOT

Section 3.2.1 specifies that a client
requests pertaining to the same EDHOC session. Even if a client did not fulfill this requirement, it
would not have any impact in terms of security. That is, the server would still not process
different instances of the same EDHOC message_3 more than once in the same EDHOC session
(see
request (see Sections 7.4 and 8.2 of

) and would still enforce replay protection of the OSCORE-protected

 have multiple outstanding EDHOC + OSCORE

Section 5.1 of [RFC9528]

[RFC8613]

).

When using the optimized workflow in Figure 2, a minimum of 128-bit security against online
brute-force attacks is achieved after the client receives and successfully verifies the first OSCORE-
protected response (see Sections 9.1 and 9.4 of
method 3 (see
following holds:

). As an example, if EDHOC is used with
), then the

) and cipher suite 2 (see

Section 3.2 of [RFC9528]

Section 3.6 of [RFC9528]

[RFC9528]

•

, this results from the combination of the strength of the 64-bit Message

The Initiator is authenticated with 128-bit security against online attacks. As per
of [RFC9528]
Authentication Code (MAC) in EDHOC message_3 and of the 64-bit MAC in the Authenticated
Encryption with Associated Data (AEAD) of the first OSCORE-protected CoAP request as
rebuilt at Step 7 of Section 3.3.1.

Section 9.1

•

The Responder is authenticated with 128-bit security against online attacks. As per
9.1 of [RFC9528]
EDHOC message_2 and of the 64-bit MAC in the AEAD of the first OSCORE-protected CoAP
response.

, this results from the combination of the strength of the 64-bit MAC in

Section

With reference to the sequential workflow in Figure 1, the OSCORE request might have to
undergo access-control checks at the server before being actually executed for accessing the
target protected resource. The same
i.e., when using the EDHOC + OSCORE request.

 hold when the optimized workflow in Figure 2 is used,

MUST

That is, the rebuilt OSCORE-protected application request from Step 7 in Section 3.3.1
MUST
undergo the same access-control checks that would be performed on a traditional OSCORE-
protected application request sent individually as shown in Figure 1.

To this end, validated information to perform access-control checks (e.g., an access token issued
by a trusted party) has to be available at the server before starting to process the rebuilt OSCORE-
protected application request. Such information may have been provided to the server
separately before starting the EDHOC execution altogether, or instead as External Authorization
Data during the EDHOC execution (see

Section 3.8 of [RFC9528]

).

Thus, a successful completion of the EDHOC protocol and the following derivation of the OSCORE
Security Context at the server do not play a role in determining whether the rebuilt OSCORE-
protected request is authorized to access the target protected resource at the server.

Palombini, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9668

Using EDHOC with CoAP and OSCORE

November 2024

8.  IANA Considerations

This document has the following actions for IANA.

8.1.  CoAP Option Numbers Registry

IANA has registered the following option number in the "CoAP Option Numbers" registry within
the "Constrained RESTful Environments (CoRE) Parameters" registry group.

Number

Name

Reference

21

EDHOC

RFC 9668

Table 2: Registration in the "CoAP Option
Numbers" Registry

8.2.  Target Attributes Registry

IANA has registered the following entries in the "Target Attributes" registry
[CORE.Target.Attributes]
registry group as per
RFC 9668.

[RFC9423]

 within the "Constrained RESTful Environments (CoRE) Parameters"

. For all entries, the Change Controller is IETF and the reference is

Attribute Name

Brief Description

ed-i

ed-r

Hint: support for the EDHOC Initiator role

Hint: support for the EDHOC Responder role

ed-method

A supported authentication method for EDHOC

ed-csuite

A supported cipher suite for EDHOC

ed-cred-t

A supported type of authentication credential for EDHOC

ed-idcred-t

A supported type of authentication credential identifier for EDHOC

ed-ead

A supported External Authorization Data (EAD) item for EDHOC

ed-comb-req

Hint: support for the EDHOC + OSCORE request

Table 3: Registrations in the "Target Attributes" Registry

8.3.  EDHOC Authentication Credential Types Registry

IANA has created the "EDHOC Authentication Credential Types" registry within the "Ephemeral
Diffie-Hellman Over COSE (EDHOC)" registry group defined in

[RFC9528]
.

Palombini, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9668

Using EDHOC with CoAP and OSCORE

November 2024

The registration policy is either "Private Use", "Standards Action with Expert Review", or
"Specification Required" per

. "Expert Review" guidelines are provided in Section 8.4.

[RFC8126]

Section 4.9 of [RFC8126]

 with "Expert Review" additionally required per
. The procedure for early IANA allocation of "standards track code points"

All assignments according to "Standards Action with Expert Review" are made on a "Standards
Action" basis per
4.5 of [RFC8126]
defined in
 also applies. When such a procedure is used, IANA will ask the designated
expert(s) to approve the early allocation before registration. In addition, working group chairs
are encouraged to consult the expert(s) early during the process outlined in
[RFC7120]
.

Section 3.1 of

[RFC7120]

Section

The columns of this registry are:

Value:

This field contains the value used to identify the type of authentication credential. These
 be unique. The value can be an unsigned integer or a negative integer. Different

MUST

values
ranges of values use different registration policies:

•

Integer values from -24 to 23 are designated as "Standards Action With Expert Review".

•

Integer values from -65536 to -25 and from 24 to 65535 are designated as "Specification
Required".

•

Integer values smaller than -65536 and greater than 65535 are marked as "Private Use".

Description:

This field contains a short description of the type of authentication credential.

Reference:

This field contains a pointer to the public specification for the type of authentication

credential.

Value Description

0

1

2

CBOR Web Token (CWT) containing a COSE_Key in a 'cnf' claim and
possibly other claims. CWT is defined in RFC 8392.

CWT Claims Set (CCS) containing a COSE_Key in a 'cnf' claim and
possibly other claims. CCS is defined in RFC 8392.

X.509 certificate

Table 4: Initial Entries in the "EDHOC Authentication Credential Types" Registry

Reference

[RFC8392]

[RFC8392]

[RFC5280]

8.4.  Expert Review Instructions

"Standards Action with Expert Review" and "Specification Required" are two of the registration
policies defined for the IANA registry established in Section 8.3. This section gives some general
guidelines for what the experts should be looking for; however, they are being designated as
experts for a reason, so they should be given substantial latitude.

Palombini, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9668

Using EDHOC with CoAP and OSCORE

November 2024

Expert reviewers should take into consideration the following points:

•

Clarity and correctness of registrations. Experts are expected to check the clarity of purpose
and use of the requested entries. Experts need to make sure that registered identifiers
indicate a type of authentication credential whose format and encoding is clearly defined in
the corresponding specification. Identifiers of types of authentication credentials that do not
meet these objectives of clarity and completeness must not be registered.

•

Point squatting should be discouraged. Reviewers are encouraged to get sufficient
information for registration requests to ensure that the usage is not going to duplicate one
that is already registered and that the point is likely to be used in deployments. The zones
tagged as "Private Use" are intended for testing purposes and closed environments. Code
points in other ranges should not be assigned for testing.

•

Specifications are required for the "Standards Action With Expert Review" range of point
assignment. Specifications should exist for "Specification Required" ranges, but early
assignment before a specification is available is considered to be permissible. When
specifications are not provided, the description provided needs to have sufficient
information to identify what the point is being used for.

•

Experts should take into account the expected usage of fields when approving point
assignment. Documents published via Standards Action can also register points outside the
Standards Action range. The length of the encoded value should be weighed against how
many code points of that length are left, the size of device it will be used on, and the number
of code points left that encode to that size.

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[CORE.Target.Attributes]

parameters>

,

IANA "Target Attributes" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/core-
.

,

[COSE.Header.Parameters]

IANA "COSE Header Parameters" <https://www.iana.org/

,

assignments/cose>

,
.

[RFC2119]

[RFC5280]

[RFC6690]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

,

Cooper, D. Santesson, S. Farrell, S. Boeyen, S. Housley, R.
"Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certificate and Certificate Revocation
List (CRL) Profile" RFC 5280 DOI 10.17487/RFC5280
editor.org/info/rfc5280>

, May 2008,

<https://www.rfc-

W. Polk

, and

,

,

.

,

,

,

Shelby, Z. "Constrained RESTful Environments (CoRE) Link Format" RFC 6690
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6690>
DOI 10.17487/RFC6690

, August 2012,

,

,

,
.

Palombini, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9668

Using EDHOC with CoAP and OSCORE

November 2024

[RFC7120]

[RFC7252]

[RFC7959]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8288]

[RFC8392]

[RFC8613]

[RFC8949]

[RFC9176]

[RFC9528]

,

Cotton, M. "Early IANA Allocation of Standards Track Code Points" BCP 100 RFC
7120 DOI 10.17487/RFC7120
,
rfc7120>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, January 2014,

,

.

Shelby, Z. Hartke, K.
,
(CoAP)" RFC 7252 DOI 10.17487/RFC7252
editor.org/info/rfc7252>

, and

,

,

.

C. Bormann "The Constrained Application Protocol

,

, June 2014,

<https://www.rfc-

 and

Bormann, C.
,
Application Protocol (CoAP)" RFC 7959 DOI 10.17487/RFC7959
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7959>

Z. Shelby, Ed. "Block-Wise Transfers in the Constrained

,

,

.

, August 2016,

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

, June

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Nottingham, M. "Web Linking" RFC 8288 DOI 10.17487/RFC8288
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8288>

,
.

,

, October 2017,

,

Jones, M. Wahlstroem, E. Erdtman, S.
(CWT)" RFC 8392 DOI 10.17487/RFC8392
,
info/rfc8392>

,

,

.

, and

H. Tschofenig "CBOR Web Token

,

, May 2018,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

,

Selander, G. Mattsson, J. Palombini, F.
L. Seitz "Object Security for
Constrained RESTful Environments (OSCORE)" RFC 8613 DOI 10.17487/
,
RFC8613

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8613>

, July 2019,

, and

,

,

,

.

Bormann, C.
STD 94 RFC 8949 DOI 10.17487/RFC8949
editor.org/info/rfc8949>

P. Hoffman "Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR)"
 and
<https://www.rfc-
,

, December 2020,

,

,

.

,

,

Amsüss, C., Ed. Shelby, Z. Koster, M. Bormann, C.
,
"Constrained RESTful Environments (CoRE) Resource Directory" RFC 9176 DOI
10.17487/RFC9176

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9176>

P. van der Stok

, April 2022,

, and

,

,

,

,

.

,

Selander, G. Preuß Mattsson, J.
, and
Over COSE (EDHOC)" RFC 9528 DOI 10.17487/RFC9528
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9528>

F. Palombini "Ephemeral Diffie-Hellman
<https://

, March 2024,

,

.

,

9.2.  Informative References

[RFC9423]

,

Bormann, C. "Constrained RESTful Environments (CoRE) Target Attributes
Registry" RFC 9423 DOI 10.17487/RFC9423
editor.org/info/rfc9423>

<https://www.rfc-

, April 2024,

,

,

.

Palombini, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9668

Using EDHOC with CoAP and OSCORE

November 2024

Acknowledgments

The authors sincerely thank
Danyliw Esko Dijk Joel Halpern Wes Hardaker Klaus Hartke John Preuß Mattsson David
,
Navarro Shuping Peng Jim Schaad Jürgen Schönwälder John Scudder Orie Steele Gunter Van
,
de Velde Mališa Vučinić

Christian Amsüss Emmanuel Baccelli Carsten Bormann Roman

 for their feedback and comments.

,
Paul Wouters

, and

,
,
,

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

The work on this document has been partly supported by the Sweden's Innovation Agency
VINNOVA and the Celtic-Next project CRITISEC, and by the H2020 project SIFIS-Home (Grant
agreement 952652).

Authors' Addresses

Francesca Palombini
Ericsson AB
Torshamnsgatan 23
SE-164 40 Kista
Sweden
Email:

francesca.palombini@ericsson.com

Marco Tiloca
RISE AB
Isafjordsgatan 22
SE-164 40 Kista
Sweden
Email:

marco.tiloca@ri.se

Rikard Höglund
RISE AB
Isafjordsgatan 22
SE-164 40 Kista
Sweden
Email:

rikard.hoglund@ri.se

Stefan Hristozov
Eriptic
Email:

stefan.hristozov@eriptic.com

Göran Selander
Ericsson
Email:

goran.selander@ericsson.com

Palombini, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

