Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9335
3711
Standards Track
January 2023
2070-1721
J. Uberti

C. Jennings
Cisco

S. Garcia Murillo
Millicast

RFC 9335
Completely Encrypting RTP Header Extensions and
Contributing Sources

Abstract

While the Secure Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP) provides confidentiality for the contents of
a media packet, a significant amount of metadata is left unprotected, including RTP header
extensions and contributing sources (CSRCs). However, this data can be moderately sensitive in
many applications. While there have been previous attempts to protect this data, they have had
limited deployment, due to complexity as well as technical limitations.

This document updates RFC 3711, the SRTP specification, and defines Cryptex as a new
mechanism that completely encrypts header extensions and CSRCs and uses simpler Session
Description Protocol (SDP) signaling with the goal of facilitating deployment.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9335
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Uberti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9335

Completely Encrypting RTP Header Extensions and CSRCs

January 2023

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Problem Statement

1.2.  Previous Solutions

1.3.  Goals

2.  Terminology

3.  Design

4.  SDP Considerations

5.  RTP Header Processing

5.1.  Sending

5.2.  Receiving

6.  Encryption and Decryption

6.1.  Packet Structure

6.2.  Encryption Procedure

6.3.  Decryption Procedure

7.  Backward Compatibility

8.  Security Considerations

9.  IANA Considerations

10. References

10.1.  Normative References

10.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Test Vectors

A.1.  AES-CTR

A.1.1.  RTP Packet with One-Byte Header Extension

A.1.2.  RTP Packet with Two-Byte Header Extension

Uberti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9335

Completely Encrypting RTP Header Extensions and CSRCs

January 2023

A.1.3.  RTP Packet with One-Byte Header Extension and CSRC Fields

A.1.4.  RTP Packet with Two-Byte Header Extension and CSRC Fields

A.1.5.  RTP Packet with Empty One-Byte Header Extension and CSRC Fields

A.1.6.  RTP Packet with Empty Two-Byte Header Extension and CSRC Fields

A.2.  AES-GCM

A.2.1.  RTP Packet with One-Byte Header Extension

A.2.2.  RTP Packet with Two-Byte Header Extension

A.2.3.  RTP Packet with One-Byte Header Extension and CSRC Fields

A.2.4.  RTP Packet with Two-Byte Header Extension and CSRC Fields

A.2.5.  RTP Packet with Empty One-Byte Header Extension and CSRC Fields

A.2.6.  RTP Packet with Empty Two-Byte Header Extension and CSRC Fields

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Problem Statement

The Secure Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP)
 mechanism provides message
authentication for the entire RTP packet but only encrypts the RTP payload. This has not
historically been a problem, as much of the information carried in the header has minimal
sensitivity (e.g., RTP timestamp); in addition, certain fields need to remain as cleartext because
they are used for key scheduling (e.g., RTP synchronization source (SSRC) and sequence number).

[RFC3711]

[RFC6904]

However, as noted in
carried in RTP header extensions, including the per-packet sound levels defined in
[RFC6465]
of those RFCs.

 and
, which are specifically noted as being sensitive in the Security Considerations sections

, the security requirements can be different for information

[RFC6464]

In addition to the contents of the header extensions, there are now enough header extensions in
active use that the header extension identifiers themselves can provide meaningful information
in terms of determining the identity of the endpoint and/or application. Accordingly, these
identifiers can be considered a fingerprinting issue.

Finally, the CSRCs included in RTP packets can also be sensitive, potentially allowing a network
eavesdropper to determine who was speaking and when during an otherwise secure conference
call.

Uberti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9335

Completely Encrypting RTP Header Extensions and CSRCs

January 2023

1.2.  Previous Solutions

[RFC6904]
Encryption of Header Extensions in SRTP
problem of unprotected header extension values. However, it has not seen significant adoption
and has a few technical shortcomings.

 was proposed in 2013 as a solution to the

First, the mechanism is complicated. Since it allows encryption to be negotiated on a per-
extension basis, a fair amount of signaling logic is required. And in the SRTP layer, a somewhat
complex transform is required to allow only the selected header extension values to be
encrypted. One of the most popular SRTP implementations had a significant bug in this area that
was not detected for five years.

Second, the mechanism only protects the header extension values and not their identifiers or
lengths. It also does not protect the CSRCs. As noted above, this leaves a fair amount of potentially
sensitive information exposed.

Third, the mechanism bloats the header extension space. Because each extension must be offered
in both unencrypted and encrypted forms, twice as many header extensions must be offered,
which will in many cases push implementations past the 14-extension limit for the use of one-
byte extension headers defined in
. Accordingly, in many cases, implementations will
need to use two-byte headers, which are not supported well by some existing implementations.

[RFC8285]

Finally, the header extension bloat combined with the need for backward compatibility results in
additional wire overhead. Because two-byte extension headers may not be handled well by
existing implementations, one-byte extension identifiers will need to be used for the
unencrypted (backward-compatible) forms, and two-byte for the encrypted forms. Thus,
deployment of encryption for header extensions
bytes in each RTP packet, compared to the present situation.

 will typically result in multiple extra

[RFC6904]

1.3.  Goals

From the previous analysis, the desired properties of a solution are:

•

Built on the existing SRTP framework

[RFC3711]

 (simple to understand)

•

Built on the existing header extension framework

[RFC8285]

 (simple to implement)

•

Protection of header extension identifiers, lengths, and values

•

Protection of CSRCs when present

•

Simple signaling

•

Simple crypto transform and SRTP interactions

•

Backward compatibility with unencrypted endpoints, if desired

•

Backward compatibility with existing RTP tooling

Uberti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9335

Completely Encrypting RTP Header Extensions and CSRCs

January 2023

The last point deserves further discussion. While other possible solutions that would have
encrypted more of the RTP header (e.g., the number of CSRCs) were considered, the inability to
parse the resultant packets with current tools and a generally higher level of complexity
outweighed the slight improvement in confidentiality in these solutions. Hence, a more
pragmatic approach was taken to solve the problem described in Section 1.1.

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Design

This specification proposes a mechanism to negotiate encryption of all RTP header extensions
(ids, lengths, and values) as well as CSRC values. It reuses the existing SRTP framework, is
accordingly simple to implement, and is backward compatible with existing RTP packet parsing
code, even when support for the mechanism has been negotiated.

Except when explicitly stated otherwise, Cryptex reuses all the framework procedures,
transforms, and considerations described in

[RFC3711]
.

4.  SDP Considerations

Cryptex support is indicated via a new "a=cryptex" SDP attribute defined in this specification.

The new "a=cryptex" attribute is a property attribute as defined in
therefore takes no value and can be used at the session level or media level.

Section 5.13 of [RFC8866]

; it

The presence of the "a=cryptex" attribute in the SDP (in either an offer or an answer) indicates
that the endpoint is capable of receiving RTP packets encrypted with Cryptex, as defined below.

Once each peer has verified that the other party supports receiving RTP packets encrypted with
Cryptex, senders can unilaterally decide whether or not to use the Cryptex mechanism on a per-
packet basis.

[RFC9143]

 and the "a=cryptex" attribute is present for a media line, it

If BUNDLE is in use as per
 be present for all RTP-based "m=" sections belonging to the same bundle group. This
MUST
ensures that the encrypted Media Identifier (MID) header extensions can be processed, allowing
RTP streams to be associated with the correct "m=" section in each BUNDLE group as specified in
Section 9.2 of [RFC9143]
category

. When used with BUNDLE, this attribute is assigned to the TRANSPORT

[RFC8859]
.

Uberti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9335

Completely Encrypting RTP Header Extensions and CSRCs

January 2023

Both endpoints can change the Cryptex support status by modifying the session as specified in
Section 8 of [RFC3264]
. Generating subsequent SDP offers and answers
procedures for including the "a=cryptex" attribute as the ones on the initial offer and answer.

 use the same

MUST

5.  RTP Header Processing

A General Mechanism for RTP Header Extensions
by profile" field for carrying one-byte and two-byte header extensions. In order to allow a
receiver to determine if an incoming RTP packet is using the encryption scheme in this
specification, two new values are defined:

[RFC8285]

 defines two values for the "defined

•

0xC0DE for the encrypted version of the one-byte header extensions (instead of 0xBEDE).

•

0xC2DE for the encrypted versions of the two-byte header extensions (instead of 0x100).

In the case of using two-byte header extensions, the extension identifier with value 256
NOT
"defined by profile" field, which are not available when using the values above.

 be negotiated, as the value of this identifier is meant to be contained in the "appbits" of the

MUST

[RFC8285]

Note that as per
RTP packet. Mixing one-byte and two-byte headers on the same RTP stream requires negotiation
of the "extmap-allow-mixed" SDP attribute as defined in

, it is not possible to mix one-byte and two-byte headers on the same

Section 6 of [RFC8285]
.

MAY
[RFC6904]

 negotiate both Cryptex and the Encryption of Header Extensions mechanism defined

Peers
in
supported, either one can be used for any given packet. However, if a packet is encrypted with
Cryptex, it

 via SDP offer/answer as described in Section 4, and if both mechanisms are

 also use header extension encryption

, and vice versa.

[RFC6904]

MUST NOT

[RFC6904]

 in the SDP exchange, it is

If one of the peers has advertised the ability to receive both Cryptex and header extensions
encrypted as per
Cryptex rather than the mechanism in
header extensions and CSRCS are encrypted. However, if there is a compelling reason to use the
mechanism in
they are processable by RTP middleboxes), the other peer
[RFC6904]

 (e.g., a need for some header extensions to be sent in the clear so that so
SHOULD

 when sending RTP packets so that all the

 that the other peer use

 use the mechanism in

RECOMMENDED

[RFC6904]

[RFC6904]

 instead.

5.1.  Sending

When the mechanism defined by this specification has been negotiated, sending an RTP packet
that has any CSRCs or contains any header extensions
mechanism
[RFC8285]
.

 be used with header extensions other than the variety described in

 follows the steps below. This

[RFC8285]

MUST NOT

If the RTP packet contains one-byte headers, the 16-bit RTP header extension tag
0xC0DE to indicate that the encryption has been applied and the one-byte framing is being used.
If the RTP packet contains two-byte headers, the header extension tag
 be set to 0xC2DE to
indicate encryption has been applied and the two-byte framing is being used.

 be set to

MUST

MUST

Uberti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9335

Completely Encrypting RTP Header Extensions and CSRCs

January 2023

If the packet contains CSRCs but no header extensions, an empty extension block consisting of
the 0xC0DE tag and a 16-bit length field set to zero (explicitly permitted by
 be
appended, and the X bit
necessary to provide the receiver an indication that the CSRCs in the packet are encrypted.

 be set to 1 to indicate an extension block is present. This is

[RFC3550] MUST

MUST

)

The RTP packet

MUST

 then be encrypted as described in Section 6.2 ("Encryption Procedure").

5.2.  Receiving

 be checked to ensure the payload is formatted according to this specification. If the field

When receiving an RTP packet that contains header extensions, the "defined by profile" field
MUST
does not match one of the values defined above, the implementation
according to the specification that defines that value.

 instead handle it

MUST

Alternatively, if the implementation considers the use of this specification mandatory and the
"defined by profile" field does not match one of the values defined above, it
processing of the RTP packet and report an error for the RTP stream.

 stop the

MUST

If the RTP packet passes this check, it is then decrypted as described in Section 6.3 ("Decryption
Procedure") and passed to the next layer to process the packet and its extensions. In the event
that a zero-length extension block was added as indicated above, it can be left as is and will be
processed normally.

6.  Encryption and Decryption

6.1.  Packet Structure

When this mechanism is active, the SRTP packet is protected as follows:

Uberti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9335

Completely Encrypting RTP Header Extensions and CSRCs

January 2023

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+<+
  |V=2|P|X|  CC   |M|     PT      |       sequence number         | |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ |
  |                           timestamp                           | |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ |
  |           synchronization source (SSRC) identifier            | |
+>+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+ |
| |            contributing source (CSRC) identifiers             | |
| |                               ....                            | |
+>+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ |
X |  0xC0 or 0xC2 |    0xDE       |           length              | |
+>+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ |
| |                  RFC 8285 header extensions                   | |
| +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ |
| |                          payload  ...                         | |
| |                               +-------------------------------+ |
| |                               | RTP padding   | RTP pad count | |
+>+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+<+
| ~          SRTP Master Key Identifier (MKI) (OPTIONAL)          ~ |
| +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ |
| :                 authentication tag (RECOMMENDED)              : |
| +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ |
|                                                                   |
+- Encrypted Portion                       Authenticated Portion ---+

Figure 1: A Protected SRTP Packet

Note that, as required by
encrypted.

[RFC8285]

, the 4 bytes at the start of the extension block are not

Specifically, the Encrypted Portion
(except for the first 4 bytes), and the RTP payload.

MUST

 include any CSRC identifiers, any RTP header extension

6.2.  Encryption Procedure

[RFC3711]
The encryption procedure is identical to that of
SRTP packet. The plaintext input to the cipher is as follows:

 except for the Encrypted Portion of the

Plaintext = CSRC identifiers (if used) || header extension data ||
     RTP payload || RTP padding (if used) || RTP pad count (if used)

Here "header extension data" refers to the content of the RTP extension field, excluding the first
four bytes (the extension header
ciphertext are placed in the CSRC field of the RTP header. The remainder of the ciphertext is the
RTP payload of the encrypted packet.

). The first 4 * CSRC count (CC) bytes of the

[RFC8285]

To minimize changes to surrounding code, the encryption mechanism can choose to replace a
"defined by profile" field from
Processing") and encrypt at the same time.

 with its counterpart defined in Section 5 ("RTP Header

[RFC8285]

Uberti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9335

Completely Encrypting RTP Header Extensions and CSRCs

January 2023

For Authenticated Encryption with Associated Data (AEAD) ciphers (e.g., AES-GCM), the 12-byte
fixed header and the four-byte header extension header (the "defined by profile" field and the
length) are considered additional authenticated data (AAD), even though they are non-
contiguous in the packet if CSRCs are present.

Associated Data: fixed header || extension header (if X=1)

Here "fixed header" refers to the 12-byte fixed portion of the RTP header, and "extension header"
refers to the four-byte extension header

 ("defined by profile" and extension length).

[RFC8285]

Implementations can rearrange a packet so that the AAD and plaintext are contiguous by
swapping the order of the extension header and the CSRC identifiers, resulting in an
intermediate representation of the form shown in Figure 2. After encryption, the CSRCs (now
encrypted) and extension header would need to be swapped back to their original positions. A
similar operation can be done when decrypting to create contiguous ciphertext and AAD inputs.

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+<+
  |V=2|P|X|  CC   |M|     PT      |       sequence number         | |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ |
  |                           timestamp                           | |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ |
  |           synchronization source (SSRC) identifier            | |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ |
  |  0xC0 or 0xC2 |    0xDE       |           length              | |
+>+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+<+
| |            contributing source (CSRC) identifiers             | |
| |                               ....                            | |
| +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ |
| |                  RFC 8285 header extensions                   | |
| +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ |
| |                          payload  ...                         | |
| |                               +-------------------------------+ |
| |                               | RTP padding   | RTP pad count | |
+>+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ |
|                                                                   |
+- Plaintext Input                                     AAD Input ---+

Figure 2: An RTP Packet Transformed to Make Cryptex Cipher Inputs Contiguous

Note that this intermediate representation is only displayed as reference for implementations
and is not meant to be sent on the wire.

6.3.  Decryption Procedure

The decryption procedure is identical to that of
SRTP packet, which is as shown in the section above.

[RFC3711]

 except for the Encrypted Portion of the

Uberti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9335

Completely Encrypting RTP Header Extensions and CSRCs

January 2023

To minimize changes to surrounding code, the decryption mechanism can choose to replace the
"defined by profile" field with its no-encryption counterpart from
 and decrypt at the
same time.

[RFC8285]

7.  Backward Compatibility

This specification attempts to encrypt as much as possible without interfering with backward
compatibility for systems that expect a certain structure from an RTPv2 packet, including
systems that perform demultiplexing based on packet headers. Accordingly, the first two bytes of
the RTP packet are not encrypted.

This specification also attempts to reuse the key scheduling from SRTP, which depends on the
RTP packet sequence number and SSRC identifier. Accordingly, these values are also not
encrypted.

8.  Security Considerations

All security considerations in
exception is Section 9.4, because confidentiality of the RTP Header is the purpose of this
specification.

 are applicable to this specification; the

Section 9 of [RFC3711]

The risks of using weak or NULL authentication with SRTP, described in
apply to encrypted header extensions as well.

Section 9.5 of [RFC3711]
,

This specification extends SRTP by expanding the Encrypted Portion of the RTP packet, as shown
in Section 6.1 ("Packet Structure"). It does not change how SRTP authentication works in any way.
Given that more of the packet is being encrypted than before, this is necessarily an improvement.

The RTP fields that are left unencrypted (see rationale above) are as follows:

•

RTP version

•

padding bit

•

extension bit

•

number of CSRCs

•

marker bit

•

payload type

•

sequence number

•

timestamp

•

SSRC identifier

•

number of header extensions

[RFC8285]

These values contain a fixed set (i.e., one that won't be changed by extensions) of information
that, at present, is observed to have low sensitivity. In the event any of these values need to be
encrypted, SRTP is likely the wrong protocol to use and a fully encapsulating protocol such as
DTLS is preferred (with its attendant per-packet overhead).

Uberti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9335

Completely Encrypting RTP Header Extensions and CSRCs

January 2023

9.  IANA Considerations

This document updates the "attribute-name (formerly "att-field")" subregistry of the "Session
Description Protocol (SDP) Parameters" registry (see
adds the SDP "a=cryptex" attribute for use at both the media level and the session level.

Section 8.2.4 of [RFC8866]

). Specifically, it

Contact name:

IETF AVT Working Group or IESG if the AVT Working Group is closed

Contact email address:

avt@ietf.org

Attribute name:

cryptex

Attribute syntax:

This attribute takes no values.

Attribute semantics:

N/A

Attribute value:

N/A

Usage level:

session, media

Charset dependent:

No

Purpose:

The presence of this attribute in the SDP indicates that the endpoint is capable of

receiving RTP packets encrypted with Cryptex as described in this document.

O/A procedures:

SDP O/A procedures are described in Section 4 of this document.

Mux Category:

TRANSPORT

10.  References

10.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC3264]

[RFC3550]

[RFC3711]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

 and

Rosenberg, J.
Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 3264 DOI 10.17487/RFC3264
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3264>

H. Schulzrinne "An Offer/Answer Model with Session

, June 2002,

,

,

,

.

,

Schulzrinne, H. Casner, S. Frederick, R.
Protocol for Real-Time Applications" STD 64 RFC 3550 DOI 10.17487/RFC3550
July 2003,

V. Jacobson "RTP: A Transport
, and
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3550>

,

,

,

,

.

,

,

Baugher, M. McGrew, D. Naslund, M. Carrara, E.
,
Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP)" RFC 3711 DOI 10.17487/RFC3711
2004,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3711>

, and

,
,

,
.

K. Norrman "The Secure
,

, March

Uberti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9335

Completely Encrypting RTP Header Extensions and CSRCs

January 2023

[RFC8174]

[RFC8285]

[RFC8859]

[RFC8866]

[RFC9143]

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

.

,

,

,

Singer, D. Desineni, H.
, and
Extensions" RFC 8285 DOI 10.17487/RFC8285
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc8285>

,

.

R. Even, Ed. "A General Mechanism for RTP Header
, October 2017,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Nandakumar, S. "A Framework for Session Description Protocol (SDP)
Attributes When Multiplexing" RFC 8859 DOI 10.17487/RFC8859
,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8859>
.

, January 2021,

Begen, A. Kyzivat, P. Perkins, C.
,
Protocol" RFC 8866 DOI 10.17487/RFC8866
,
editor.org/info/rfc8866>

, and

,
,

.

M. Handley "SDP: Session Description
<https://www.rfc-

, January 2021,

,

C. Jennings "Negotiating Media Multiplexing
Holmberg, C. Alvestrand, H.
,
Using the Session Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 9143 DOI 10.17487/RFC9143
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9143>
February 2022,

, and

,
,

.

,

10.2.  Informative References

[RFC6464]

[RFC6465]

[RFC6904]

[RFC7714]

,

Lennox, J., Ed. Ivov, E.
Header Extension for Client-to-Mixer Audio Level Indication" RFC 6464 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6464>
10.17487/RFC6464

E. Marocco "A Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP)

, December 2011,

, and

,

,

,

.

,

Ivov, E., Ed. Marocco, E., Ed.
(RTP) Header Extension for Mixer-to-Client Audio Level Indication" RFC 6465
DOI 10.17487/RFC6465
rfc6465>

J. Lennox "A Real-time Transport Protocol

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, December 2011,

, and

,

,

.

,

,

Lennox, J. "Encryption of Header Extensions in the Secure Real-time Transport
<https://www.rfc-
Protocol (SRTP)" RFC 6904 DOI 10.17487/RFC6904
editor.org/info/rfc6904>
.

, April 2013,

,

,

 and

K. Igoe "AES-GCM Authenticated Encryption in the Secure Real-

McGrew, D.
time Transport Protocol (SRTP)" RFC 7714 DOI 10.17487/RFC7714
,
2015,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7714>

, December

,

.

,

Appendix A.  Test Vectors

All values are in hexadecimal and represented in network order (big endian).

A.1.  AES-CTR

The following subsections list the test vectors for using Cryptex with AES-CTR as per

[RFC3711]
.

Common values are organized as follows:

Uberti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9335

Completely Encrypting RTP Header Extensions and CSRCs

January 2023

Rollover Counter:          00000000
Master Key:                e1f97a0d3e018be0d64fa32c06de4139
Master Salt:               0ec675ad498afeebb6960b3aabe6
Crypto Suite:              AES_CM_128_HMAC_SHA1_80
Session Key:               c61e7a93744f39ee10734afe3ff7a087
Session Salt:              30cbbc08863d8c85d49db34a9ae1
Authentication Key:        cebe321f6ff7716b6fd4ab49af256a156d38baa4

A.1.1.  RTP Packet with One-Byte Header Extension

RTP Packet:

    900f1235
    decafbad
    cafebabe
    bede0001
    51000200
    abababab
    abababab
    abababab
    abababab

Encrypted RTP Packet:

    900f1235
    decafbad
    cafebabe
    c0de0001
    eb923652
    51c3e036
    f8de27e9
    c27ee3e0
    b4651d9f
    bc4218a7
    0244522f
    34a5

A.1.2.  RTP Packet with Two-Byte Header Extension

RTP Packet:

    900f1236
    decafbad
    cafebabe
    10000001
    05020002
    abababab
    abababab
    abababab
    abababab

Uberti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9335

Completely Encrypting RTP Header Extensions and CSRCs

January 2023

Encrypted RTP Packet:

    900f1236
    decafbad
    cafebabe
    c2de0001
    4ed9cc4e
    6a712b30
    96c5ca77
    339d4204
    ce0d7739
    6cab6958
    5fbce381
    94a5

A.1.3.  RTP Packet with One-Byte Header Extension and CSRC Fields

RTP Packet:

    920f1238
    decafbad
    cafebabe
    0001e240
    0000b26e
    bede0001
    51000200
    abababab
    abababab
    abababab
    abababab

Encrypted RTP Packet:

    920f1238
    decafbad
    cafebabe
    8bb6e12b
    5cff16dd
    c0de0001
    92838c8c
    09e58393
    e1de3a9a
    74734d67
    45671338
    c3acf11d
    a2df8423
    bee0

A.1.4.  RTP Packet with Two-Byte Header Extension and CSRC Fields

RTP Packet:

Uberti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9335

Completely Encrypting RTP Header Extensions and CSRCs

January 2023

    920f1239
    decafbad
    cafebabe
    0001e240
    0000b26e
    10000001
    05020002
    abababab
    abababab
    abababab
    abababab

Encrypted RTP Packet:

    920f1239
    decafbad
    cafebabe
    f70e513e
    b90b9b25
    c2de0001
    bbed4848
    faa64466
    5f3d7f34
    125914e9
    f4d0ae92
    3c6f479b
    95a0f7b5
    3133

A.1.5.  RTP Packet with Empty One-Byte Header Extension and CSRC Fields

RTP Packet:

    920f123a
    decafbad
    cafebabe
    0001e240
    0000b26e
    bede0000
    abababab
    abababab
    abababab
    abababab

Encrypted RTP Packet:

Uberti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9335

Completely Encrypting RTP Header Extensions and CSRCs

January 2023

    920f123a
    decafbad
    cafebabe
    7130b6ab
    fe2ab0e3
    c0de0000
    e3d9f64b
    25c9e74c
    b4cf8e43
    fb92e378
    1c2c0cea
    b6b3a499
    a14c

A.1.6.  RTP Packet with Empty Two-Byte Header Extension and CSRC Fields

RTP Packet:

    920f123b
    decafbad
    cafebabe
    0001e240
    0000b26e
    10000000
    abababab
    abababab
    abababab
    abababab

Encrypted RTP Packet:

    920f123b
    decafbad
    cafebabe
    cbf24c12
    4330e1c8
    c2de0000
    599dd45b
    c9d687b6
    03e8b59d
    771fd38e
    88b170e0
    cd31e125
    eabe

A.2.  AES-GCM

The following subsections list the test vectors for using Cryptex with AES-GCM as per

[RFC7714]
.

Common values are organized as follows:

Uberti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9335

Completely Encrypting RTP Header Extensions and CSRCs

January 2023

    Rollover Counter:          00000000
    Master Key:                000102030405060708090a0b0c0d0e0f
    Master Salt:               a0a1a2a3a4a5a6a7a8a9aaab
    Crypto Suite:              AEAD_AES_128_GCM
    Session Key:               077c6143cb221bc355ff23d5f984a16e
    Session Salt:              9af3e95364ebac9c99c5a7c4

A.2.1.  RTP Packet with One-Byte Header Extension

RTP Packet:

    900f1235
    decafbad
    cafebabe
    bede0001
    51000200
    abababab
    abababab
    abababab
    abababab

Encrypted RTP Packet:

    900f1235
    decafbad
    cafebabe
    c0de0001
    39972dc9
    572c4d99
    e8fc355d
    e743fb2e
    94f9d8ff
    54e72f41
    93bbc5c7
    4ffab0fa
    9fa0fbeb

A.2.2.  RTP Packet with Two-Byte Header Extension

RTP Packet:

    900f1236
    decafbad
    cafebabe
    10000001
    05020002
    abababab
    abababab
    abababab
    abababab

Uberti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9335

Completely Encrypting RTP Header Extensions and CSRCs

January 2023

Encrypted RTP Packet:

    900f1236
    decafbad
    cafebabe
    c2de0001
    bb75a4c5
    45cd1f41
    3bdb7daa
    2b1e3263
    de313667
    c9632490
    81b35a65
    f5cb6c88
    b394235f

A.2.3.  RTP Packet with One-Byte Header Extension and CSRC Fields

RTP Packet:

    920f1238
    decafbad
    cafebabe
    0001e240
    0000b26e
    bede0001
    51000200
    abababab
    abababab
    abababab
    abababab

Encrypted RTP Packet:

    920f1238
    decafbad
    cafebabe
    63bbccc4
    a7f695c4
    c0de0001
    8ad7c71f
    ac70a80c
    92866b4c
    6ba98546
    ef913586
    e95ffaaf
    fe956885
    bb0647a8
    bc094ac8

Uberti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9335

Completely Encrypting RTP Header Extensions and CSRCs

January 2023

A.2.4.  RTP Packet with Two-Byte Header Extension and CSRC Fields

RTP Packet:

    920f1239
    decafbad
    cafebabe
    0001e240
    0000b26e
    10000001
    05020002
    abababab
    abababab
    abababab
    abababab

Encrypted RTP Packet:

    920f1239
    decafbad
    cafebabe
    3680524f
    8d312b00
    c2de0001
    c78d1200
    38422bc1
    11a7187a
    18246f98
    0c059cc6
    bc9df8b6
    26394eca
    344e4b05
    d80fea83

A.2.5.  RTP Packet with Empty One-Byte Header Extension and CSRC Fields

RTP Packet:

    920f123a
    decafbad
    cafebabe
    0001e240
    0000b26e
    bede0000
    abababab
    abababab
    abababab
    abababab

Encrypted RTP Packet:

Uberti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9335

Completely Encrypting RTP Header Extensions and CSRCs

January 2023

    920f123a
    decafbad
    cafebabe
    15b6bb43
    37906fff
    c0de0000
    b7b96453
    7a2b03ab
    7ba5389c
    e9331712
    6b5d974d
    f30c6884
    dcb651c5
    e120c1da

A.2.6.  RTP Packet with Empty Two-Byte Header Extension and CSRC Fields

RTP Packet:

    920f123b
    decafbad
    cafebabe
    0001e240
    0000b26e
    10000000
    abababab
    abababab
    abababab
    abababab

Encrypted RTP Packet:

    920f123b
    decafbad
    cafebabe
    dcb38c9e
    48bf95f4
    c2de0000
    61ee432c
    f9203170
    76613258
    d3ce4236
    c06ac429
    681ad084
    13512dc9
    8b5207d8

Uberti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9335

Completely Encrypting RTP Header Extensions and CSRCs

January 2023

Acknowledgements

The authors wish to thank
header encryption mechanism, as well as suggestions for this proposal. Thanks also to
Lennox Inaki Castillo

 for their reviews and suggestions.

 for pointing out many of the issues with the existing

Bernard Aboba

Lennart Grahl

, and

Jonathan

,

Authors' Addresses

Justin Uberti
Email:

 justin@uberti.name

Cullen Jennings
Cisco
Email:

 fluffy@iii.ca

Sergio Garcia Murillo
Millicast
Email:

 sergio.garcia.murillo@cosmosoftware.io

Uberti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

