Stream:
RFC:
Obsoletes:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9003
8203
4486
Standards Track
January 2021
2070-1721
J. Snijders
NTT

J. Scudder
Juniper

J. Heitz
Cisco

A. Azimov
Yandex

RFC 9003
Extended BGP Administrative Shutdown
Communication

Abstract

This document enhances the BGP Cease NOTIFICATION message "Administrative Shutdown" and
"Administrative Reset" subcodes for operators to transmit a short free-form message to describe
why a BGP session was shut down or reset. This document updates RFC 4486 and obsoletes RFC
8203 by deﬁning an Extended BGP Administrative Shutdown Communication of up to 255 octets
to improve communication using multibyte character sets.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9003

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Snijders, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9003

BGP Shutdown Communication

January 2021

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

2.  Shutdown Communication

3.  Operational Considerations

4.  Error Handling

5.  IANA Considerations

6.  Security Considerations

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Changes to RFC 8203

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

It can be troublesome for an operator to correlate a
network with a notice that was transmitted via oﬄine methods, such as email or telephone calls.
This document updates
UTF-8
[RFC3629]
the BGP session is being shut down or reset. This document obsoletes
diﬀerences and rationale are discussed in detail in Appendix A.

 by specifying a mechanism to transmit a short free-form

Cease NOTIFICATION message [RFC4271]

 session teardown in the

 to inform the peer why

 message as part of a

BGP-4 [RFC4271]

; the speciﬁc

[RFC8203]

[RFC4486]

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

Snijders, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9003

BGP Shutdown Communication

January 2021

2.  Shutdown Communication

If a BGP speaker decides to terminate its session with a BGP neighbor, and it sends a
NOTIFICATION message with the Error Code "Cease" and Error Subcode "Administrative
Shutdown" or "Administrative Reset"
contents of the string are at the operator's discretion.

 include a UTF-8-encoded string. The

[RFC4486] MAY

, it

The Cease NOTIFICATION message with a Shutdown Communication is encoded as below:

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| Error Code 6  |    Subcode    |    Length     |     ...       \
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+               /
\                                                               \
/                 ... Shutdown Communication ...                /
\                                                               \
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 1

Subcode:

The Error Subcode value
Shutdown") or 4 ("Administrative Reset").

MUST

 be one of the following values: 2 ("Administrative

Length:

This 8-bit ﬁeld represents the length of the Shutdown Communication ﬁeld in octets.

When the length value is zero, no Shutdown Communication ﬁeld follows.

Shutdown Communication:

To support international characters, the Shutdown Communication

MUST

 be encoded using UTF-8. A receiving BGP speaker

ﬁeld
UTF-8 sequences. Note that when the Shutdown Communication contains multibyte
characters, the number of characters will be less than the length value. This ﬁeld is not NUL
terminated. UTF-8 "Shortest Form" encoding is
outlined in

 to guard against the technical issues

 interpret invalid

REQUIRED

MUST NOT

[UTR36]

.

Mechanisms concerning the reporting of information contained in the Shutdown
Communication are implementation speciﬁc but
.
[RFC5424]

 include methods such as

SHOULD

syslog

3.  Operational Considerations

Operators are encouraged to use the Shutdown Communication to inform their peers of the
reason for the shutdown of the BGP session and include out-of-band reference materials. An
example of a useful Shutdown Communication would be:

"[TICKET-1-1438367390] software upgrade; back in 2 hours"

Snijders, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9003

BGP Shutdown Communication

January 2021

"[TICKET-1-1438367390]" is a ticket reference with signiﬁcance to both the sender and receiver,
followed by a brief human-readable message regarding the reason for the BGP session shutdown
followed by an indication about the length of the maintenance. The receiver can now use the
string 'TICKET-1-1438367390' to search in their email archive to ﬁnd more details.

If a Shutdown Communication longer than 128 octets is sent to a BGP speaker that implements
[RFC8203], then that speaker will treat it as an error, the consequence of which should be a log
message.

If a Shutdown Communication of any length is sent to a BGP speaker that implements neither
[RFC8203] nor this speciﬁcation, then that speaker will treat it as an error, the consequence of
which should be a log message.

In any case, a receiver of a NOTIFICATION message is unable to acknowledge the receipt and
correct understanding of any Shutdown Communication.

Operators should not rely on Shutdown Communications as their sole form of communication
with their peers for important events.

If it is known that the peer BGP speaker supports this speciﬁcation, then a Shutdown
Communication that is not longer than 255 octets
Communication

 be longer than 128 octets.

 be sent. Otherwise, a Shutdown

 be sent, but it

SHOULD NOT

MAY

MAY

4.  Error Handling

If a Shutdown Communication with an invalid UTF-8 sequence is received, a message indicating
this event
Shutdown Communication itself

 be logged for the attention of the operator. An erroneous or malformed
 be logged in a hexdump format.

SHOULD

MAY

5.  IANA Considerations

IANA has referenced this document at subcodes "Administrative Shutdown" and "Administrative
Reset" in the "BGP Cease NOTIFICATION message subcodes" registry under the "Border Gateway
Protocol (BGP) Parameters" group in addition to

[RFC4486]

.

6.  Security Considerations

This document uses UTF-8 encoding for the Shutdown Communication. There are a number of
security issues with Unicode. Implementers and operators are advised to review
Technical Report #36 [UTR36]
REQUIRED

 to learn about these issues. UTF-8 "Shortest Form" encoding is

 to guard against the technical issues outlined in

.
[UTR36]

Unicode

As BGP Shutdown Communications are likely to appear in syslog output, there is a risk that
carefully constructed Shutdown Communication might be formatted by receiving systems in a
way to make them appear as additional syslog messages. The 255-octet length limit on the BGP
Shutdown Communication may help limit the ability to mount such an attack.

Snijders, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9003

BGP Shutdown Communication

January 2021

Users of this mechanism should be aware that unless a transport that provides integrity is used
for the BGP session in question, a Shutdown Communication message could be forged. Unless a
transport that provides conﬁdentiality is used, a Shutdown Communication message could be
snooped by an attacker. These issues are common to any BGP message, but they may be of
greater interest in the context of this proposal since the information carried in the message is
generally expected to be used for human-to-human communication. Refer to the related
.
considerations in

[RFC4271]

[RFC4272]

 and

Users of this mechanism should consider applying data minimization practices as outlined in
Section 6.1 of [RFC6973]
receiver's discretion.

 because a received Shutdown Communication may be used at the

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC3629]

[RFC4271]

[RFC4486]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,
Yergeau, F. "UTF-8, a transformation format of ISO 10646" STD 63 RFC 3629
DOI 10.17487/RFC3629
rfc3629>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, November 2003,

,

,

.

,

Rekhter, Y., Ed., Li, T., Ed., and S. Hares, Ed. "A Border Gateway Protocol 4
(BGP-4)" RFC 4271 DOI 10.17487/RFC4271
editor.org/info/rfc4271>

,
, January 2006,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

,
Chen, E. and V. Gillet "Subcodes for BGP Cease Notiﬁcation Message" RFC 4486
DOI 10.17487/RFC4486

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4486>

, April 2006,

,

.

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

.

,

,

7.2.  Informative References

[RFC4272]

[RFC5424]

[RFC6973]

Murphy, S. "BGP Security Vulnerabilities Analysis" RFC 4272 DOI 10.17487/
RFC4272

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4272>

, January 2006,

,

,

,

.

,
Gerhards, R. "The Syslog Protocol" RFC 5424 DOI 10.17487/RFC5424
2009,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5424>

,

.

, March

Cooper, A., Tschofenig, H., Aboba, B., Peterson, J., Morris, J., Hansen, M., and R.
Smith "Privacy Considerations for Internet Protocols" RFC 6973 DOI 10.17487/
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6973>
RFC6973

, July 2013,

,

,

,

.

Snijders, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9003

BGP Shutdown Communication

January 2021

[RFC8203]

[UTR36]

Snijders, J., Heitz, J., and J. Scudder "BGP Administrative Shutdown
Communication" RFC 8203 DOI 10.17487/RFC8203
editor.org/info/rfc8203>
.

, July 2017,

,

,

,

<https://www.rfc-

Davis, M., Ed. and M. Suignard, Ed. "Unicode Security Considerations" Unicode
Technical Report #36

,
, August 2010,
<http://unicode.org/reports/tr36/>

.

,

Appendix A.  Changes to RFC 8203

The maximum permitted length was changed from 128 to 255.

Feedback from operators based in regions that predominantly use multibyte character sets
showed that messages similar in meaning to what can be sent in other languages using single-
byte encoding failed to ﬁt within the length constraints as speciﬁed by
. For example,
the phrase "Planned work to add switch to stack. Completion time - 30 minutes" has a length of
65 bytes. Its translation in Russian has a length of 139 bytes.

[RFC8203]

If a Shutdown Communication message longer than 128 octets is sent to a BGP speaker that
implements
otherwise process the NOTIFICATION message as normal.

, then that speaker will bring it to the attention of an operator but will

[RFC8203]

Acknowledgements

The authors would like to gratefully acknowledge
Haas Peter Hessler Bruno Decraene John Heasley Peter van Dijk Arjen Zonneveld James
Bensley Susan Hares Saku Ytti Lou Berger Alvaro Retana

Tom Scholl David Freedman Jared Mauch Jeﬀ
,

Adam Roach

, and

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

.

The authors would like to thank
granting the related BCP 78 rights to the IETF Trust.

Enke Chen

 and

Vincent Gillet

 for their work on

[RFC4486]

 and

The authors would like to acknowledge
length speciﬁcation of

[RFC8203]

Misha Grishin

 (MSK-IX) for raising awareness that the

 was insuﬃcient in context of multibyte character sets.

Authors' Addresses

Job Snijders
NTT Ltd.
Theodorus Majofskistraat 100
1065 SZ Amsterdam
Netherlands
Email:

 job@ntt.net

Snijders, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9003

BGP Shutdown Communication

January 2021

Jakob Heitz
Cisco
170 West Tasman Drive
San Jose CA 95134
,
United States of America
 jheitz@cisco.com
Email:

John Scudder
Juniper Networks
1133 Innovation Way
Sunnyvale CA 94089
,
United States of America
Email:

 jgs@juniper.net

Alexander Azimov
Yandex
Ulitsa Lva Tolstogo 16
Moscow
119021
Russian Federation
Email:

 a.e.azimov@gmail.com

Snijders, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

