Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9739
Standards Track
March 2025
2070-1721

H. Bidgoli, Ed.
Nokia

S. Venaas
Cisco Systems, Inc.

M. Mishra
Cisco Systems, Inc.

Z. Zhang
Juniper Networks

M. McBride
Futurewei Technologies Inc.

RFC 9739
Protocol Independent Multicast Light (PIM Light)

Abstract

This document specifies Protocol Independent Multicast Light (PIM Light) and the PIM Light
Interface (PLI). A PLI does not need a PIM Hello message to accept PIM Join/Prune messages, and
it can signal multicast states over networks that cannot support full PIM neighbor discovery,
such as Bit Index Explicit Replication (BIER) networks that connect two or more PIM domains.
This document outlines the PIM Light protocol and procedures to ensure loop-free multicast
traffic between two or more PIM Light routers.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9739
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Bidgoli, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9739

PIM Light

March 2025

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  PIM Light Interface

3.1.  Message Types Supported by PIM Light

3.2.  Considerations for the Absence of Hello Message

3.2.1.  Join Attribute

3.2.2.  DR Election

3.2.3.  PIM Assert

3.3.  PLI Configuration

3.4.  Failures in PLR Domain

3.5.  Reliable Transport Mechanism for PIM Light

3.6.  PIM Variants Not Supported

4.  IANA Considerations

5.  Security Considerations

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

6.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

2

3

3

4

4

4

4

5

5

5

6

6

7

7

7

7

8

8

9

This document specifies procedures for Protocol Independent Multicast Light (PIM Light) and the
PIM Light Interface (PLI). The PLI is a new type of PIM interface that allows signaling of PIM Join/
Prune packets without full PIM neighbor discovery. A PLI is useful in scenarios where multicast
states need to be signaled over networks or media that cannot support full PIM neighborship
between routers or, alternatively, where full PIM neighborship is not desired. These types of

Bidgoli, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9739

PIM Light

March 2025

networks and media are called "PIM Light domains" within this document. Lack of full PIM
neighborship will remove some PIM functionality as explained in Section 3.2 of this document.
PIM Light only supports the PIM - Sparse Mode (PIM-SM) protocol, including PIM Source-Specific
Multicast (PIM-SSM), as per
needed for PIM Light and the PLI to ensure efficient routing of multicast groups for specific
deployment environments.

. This document details procedures and considerations

[RFC7761]

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

This document uses terminology from "Protocol Independent Multicast - Sparse Mode (PIM-SM):
Protocol Specification (Revised)"

[RFC7761]
.

3.  PIM Light Interface

 describes PIM neighbor discovery via Hello messages.

Section 4.3.1 of [RFC7761]
[RFC7761]
address and it has not seen a PIM Hello message from that source address, then the Join/Prune
message

 notes that if a router receives a Join/Prune message from a particular IP source

 be discarded without further processing.

Section 4.5 of

SHOULD

In certain scenarios, it is desirable to establish multicast states between two routers without
forming a PIM neighborship. This can be necessary for various reasons, such as signaling
multicast states upstream between multiple PIM domains over a network that is not optimized
for PIM or that does not necessitate PIM neighbor establishment. An example is a Bit Index
Explicit Replication (BIER)
Join/Prune messages are tunneled via BIER as specified in

 network connecting multiple PIM domains, where PIM
[BIER-PIM]
.

[RFC8279]

A PLI accepts Join/Prune messages from an unknown PIM router without requiring a PIM Hello
message from the router. The absence of Hello messages on a PLI means there is no mechanism
to discover neighboring PIM routers or their capabilities or to execute basic algorithms such as
Designated Router (DR) election
. Consequently, the PIM Light router does not create
any general-purpose state for neighboring PIM routers and only processes Join/Prune messages
from downstream routers in its multicast routing table. Processing these Join/Prune messages
will introduce multicast states in a PIM Light router.

[RFC7761]

Due to these constraints, a PLI should be deployed in very specific scenarios where PIM-SM is
not suitable. The applications or the networks on which PLIs are deployed
 ensure that
there is no multicast packet duplication, such as multiple upstream routers sending the same
multicast stream to a single downstream router. For example, an implementation should ensure
that DR election is done on upstream redundant PIM routers that are at the edge of the PIM
Light domain to ensure that a single DR forwards the PIM Join message from the receiver to the
source.

MUST

Bidgoli, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9739

PIM Light

March 2025

3.1.  Message Types Supported by PIM Light

The "PIM Message Types" registry
PIM. PIM Light only supports the following message types in that registry:

[IANA-PIM-Mess-Types]

 lists the message types supported by

•

type 1 (Register)

•

type 2 (Register Stop)

•

type 3 (Join/Prune)

•

type 8 (Candidate RP Advertisement)

•

type 13.0 (PIM Packed Null-Register)

•

type 13.1 (PIM Packed Register-Stop)

•

Any future PIM message types where the destination is a unicast IP address

No other message types are supported by PIM Light; other message types
processed if received on a PLI.

MUST NOT

 be

3.2.  Considerations for the Absence of Hello Message

Because Hello messages are not processed in a PIM Light domain, the considerations in the
subsections below should be taken into account.

3.2.1.  Join Attribute

Since a PLI does not use PIM Hello messages, it also does not support the Join Attribute option in
. As such, PIM Light is unaware of its neighbor's capability to
PIM Hello as specified in
 send a Join message containing a Join Attribute.
process Join Attributes and

SHOULD NOT

[RFC5384]

There are two cases in which a PLI can support a Join Attribute:

•

The neighbors on the PLI are known via configuration to be capable of processing the
attribute.

•

Internet-Drafts and RFCs may dictate that certain Join Attributes are allowed to be used
without explicit configuration of the PLI in certain scenarios. The details are left to those
Internet-Drafts and RFCs.

3.2.2.  DR Election

Due to the absence of Hello messages, DR election is not supported on a PIM Light router. The
network design must ensure DR election occurs within the PIM domain, assuming the PIM Light
domain interconnects PIM domains.

For instance, in a BIER domain connecting two PIM domains as in the figure below, a PLI can be
used between BIER edge routers solely for multicast state communication and transmit only PIM
Join/Prune messages. If there are redundant PIM routers at the edge of the BIER domain, they
 to prevent multicast stream duplication and to
MUST
ensure DR election at the edge of the BIER domain. For example, DR election could be between

 establish PIM adjacency as per

[RFC7761]

Bidgoli, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9739

PIM Light

March 2025

router D and F in the figure below. When the Join or Prune message arrives from a PIM domain
to the downstream BIER edge router, it can be forwarded over the BIER tunnel to the upstream
BIER edge router only via the DR.

                   Bier edge router       Bier edge router
          |--PIM domain--|--BIER domain (PLI)--|--PIM domain--|
Source--( A )----------( B ) ---- ( C ) ---- ( D )----------( E )--Host
          |       PIM Adj|         | |         |PIM Adj       |
          |------------( E )-------| |-------( F )------------|
                                         (DR election)

3.2.3.  PIM Assert

In scenarios where multiple PIM routers peer over a shared LAN or a point-to-multipoint
medium, more than one upstream router may have valid forwarding state for a packet, which
can potentially cause packet duplication. PIM Assert is used to select a single transmitter when
such duplication is detected. According to
accepted from a known PIM neighbor.

, PIM Assert should only be

Section 4.6 of [RFC7761]

In PIM Light implementations, care must be taken to avoid duplicate streams arriving from
multiple upstream PIM Light routers to a single downstream PIM Light router. If network design
constraints prevent this, the implemented network architecture must take measures to avoid
traffic duplication. For example, in a scenario with PIM Light over a BIER domain, a downstream
IBBR (Ingress BIER Border Router) in a BIER domain can identify the nearest EBBRs (Egress BIER
Border Routers) to the source using the Shortest Path First (SPF) algorithm with post-processing
as described in Appendix A.1 of
. If the downstream IBBR identifies two EBBRs, it can
select one using a unique IP selection algorithm, such as choosing the EBBR with the lowest or
highest IP address. If the selected EBBR goes offline, the downstream router can use the next
EBBR based on the IP selection algorithm, which is beyond the scope of this document.

[BIER-PIM]

3.3.  PLI Configuration

Since a PLI doesn't require PIM Hello Messages and PIM neighbor adjacency is not checked for
arriving Join/Prune messages, there needs to be a mechanism to enable PLIs on interfaces. Join/
Prune messages not received from a PIM neighbor
the interface. In some cases, a PLI may be enabled automatically via an underlying mechanism
on a logical interface. For example, in a BIER domain, a logical interface can connect two or
more BIER edge routers as per

 be dropped unless PLI is enabled on

[BIER-PIM]
.

MUST

3.4.  Failures in PLR Domain

Because Hello messages are not processed on the PLI, PLI failures may not be discovered in a
PIM Light domain, and multicast routes will not be pruned toward the source on the PIM Light
domain. This results in the upstream routers continuously sending multicast streams until the
outgoing interface (OIF) expires.

Bidgoli, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9739

PIM Light

March 2025

Other protocols can be used to detect these failures in the PIM Light domain, and they can be
implementation specific. As an example, the interface on which PIM Light is configured can be
protected via Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD) or similar technology. If BFD to the far-
end PLI goes down and the PIM Light router is upstream and has an OIF for a multicast route
(S,G), PIM must remove that PLI from its OIF list.

In another example, the PLI is configured automatically between the BIER Edge Routers (BERs)
as in the figure below. When the Downstream BIER Edge Router (DBER) is no longer reachable
on the Upstream BIER Edge Router (UBER), the UBER (which is also a PIM Light router) can
prune the (S,G) advertised toward the source on the PIM domain to stop the transmission of the
multicast stream.

                        UBER                 DBER
          |--PIM domain--|--BIER domain (PLI)--|--PIM domain--|
Source--( A )----------( B ) ---- ( C ) ---- ( D )----------( E )--Host
                 <--Prune (S,G)          <failure on D>

3.5.  Reliable Transport Mechanism for PIM Light

 defines a reliable transport mechanism called PIM Over Reliable Transport (PORT) for

[RFC6559]
PIM transmission of Join/Prune messages, using either TCP or SCTP as the transport protocol.
Both TCP and SCTP use destination port number 8471. SCTP is explained in
 and is
used as a second option for PORT.
PIM over TCP on a given interface, it
Hello messages for that interface. The same is true for SCTP; the router
over-SCTP-Capable Hello Option in its Hello messages on that interface.

 mentions that when a router is configured to use
 include the PIM-over-TCP-Capable Hello Option in its

[RFC6559]
MUST

 include the PIM-

[RFC9260]

MUST

These Hello options contain a Connection ID, which is an IPv4 or IPv6 address used to establish
the SCTP or TCP connection. For PORT using TCP, the Connection ID is used to determine which
peer is doing an active transport open to the neighbor and which peer is doing passive transport
. When the router is using SCTP, the Connection ID is not used
open, as per
to determine the active and passive peer since SCTP can handle call collision.

Section 4 of [RFC6559]

Because PIM Light lacks Hello messages, the PLI can be configured with the Connection ID (i.e.,
the IPv4 or IPv6 address used to establish the SCTP or TCP connection). For PIM Light using the
TCP PORT option, each end of the PLI must be explicitly and correctly configured as being either
active transport open or passive transport open to ensure that call collision is avoided.

3.6.  PIM Variants Not Supported

The following PIM variants are not supported with PIM Light and not covered by this document:

•

PIM - Dense Mode (PIM-DM)

[RFC3973]

•

Bidirectional PIM (BIDIR-PIM)

[RFC5015]

Bidgoli, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9739

PIM Light

March 2025

4.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

5.  Security Considerations

Since PIM Light does not require PIM Hello messages and does not verify PIM neighbor
adjacency for incoming Join/Prune messages, for security reasons, it is crucial that
implementations ensure that only Join/Prune messages arriving at a configured PLI are
processed. Any Join/Prune messages received on an interface that is not configured as a PLI
be discarded and not processed. Additionally, as a secondary line of defense, route policies
SHOULD
(S,G) pairs, while all other (S,G) pairs

 be implemented to process only the Join/Prune messages associated with the desired

 be discarded and not processed.

MUST

MUST

Furthermore, because PIM Light can be used for signaling PIM-SM Join/Prune messages, the
security considerations outlined in
 be considered where
appropriate.

[RFC4607] SHOULD

[RFC7761]

 and

Section 6.1.1 of [RFC7761]

, only forged Join/Prune messages should be considered as a

Per
potential attack vector, as PIM Light does not process Hello or Assert messages. In addition, as
detailed in
be applied to PIM Light via IPsec Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP) or, optionally, the
Authentication Header (AH).

, the authentication mechanisms described in

Section 6.3 of [RFC7761]

[RFC5796]

 can

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

[IANA-PIM-Mess-Types]

IANA "PIM Message Types" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/pim-

,

,

[RFC2119]

[RFC4607]

[RFC5015]

[RFC5384]

parameters>

.

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Holbrook, H.
 and
10.17487/RFC4607

B. Cain "Source-Specific Multicast for IP" RFC 4607 DOI
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4607>
, August 2006,
.

,

,

,

Handley, M. Kouvelas, I. Speakman, T.
Independent Multicast (BIDIR-PIM)" RFC 5015 DOI 10.17487/RFC5015
2007,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5015>
.

L. Vicisano "Bidirectional Protocol
, October

, and

,

,

,

,

Boers, A. Wijnands, I.
Join Attribute Format" RFC 5384 DOI 10.17487/RFC5384
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5384>

, and
,

,

,

.

E. Rosen "The Protocol Independent Multicast (PIM)

, November 2008,

Bidgoli, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9739

PIM Light

March 2025

[RFC5796]

[RFC6559]

[RFC7761]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8279]

[RFC9260]

,

, and

Atwood, W. Islam, S.
Protocol Independent Multicast Sparse Mode (PIM-SM) Link-Local Messages"
RFC 5796 DOI 10.17487/RFC5796
rfc5796>

M. Siami "Authentication and Confidentiality in

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, March 2010,

,
.

,

,

,

Farinacci, D. Wijnands, IJ. Venaas, S.
,
Mechanism for PIM" RFC 6559 DOI 10.17487/RFC6559
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6559>

, and

,

,

.

M. Napierala "A Reliable Transport
, March 2012,

<https://

,

,

,

,

Fenner, B. Handley, M. Holbrook, H. Kouvelas, I. Parekh, R. Zhang, Z.
,
Zheng "Protocol Independent Multicast - Sparse Mode (PIM-SM): Protocol
Specification (Revised)" STD 83 RFC 7761 DOI 10.17487/RFC7761
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7761>

,
.

,

,

,

, March 2016,

, and

L.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Wijnands, IJ., Ed. Rosen, E., Ed. Dolganow, A. Przygienda, T.
"Multicast Using Bit Index Explicit Replication (BIER)" RFC 8279 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8279

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8279>

, November 2017,

, and
,

S. Aldrin

,

,

,

,

.

Stewart, R. Tüxen, M.
,
RFC 9260 DOI 10.17487/RFC9260
rfc9260>

, and

,
.

,
, June 2022,

K. Nielsen "Stream Control Transmission Protocol"

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

6.2.  Informative References

[BIER-PIM]

[RFC3973]

,

,

Z. Zhang "PIM
Bidgoli, H., Ed. Xu, F. Kotalwar, J. Wijnands, I. Mishra, M.
Signaling Through BIER Core" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-bier-
pim-signaling-13
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-
bier-pim-signaling-13>

, 3 March 2025,

, and

,

,

,

,

,

.

Adams, A. Nicholas, J.
,
,
Mode (PIM-DM): Protocol Specification (Revised)" RFC 3973 DOI 10.17487/
RFC3973

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3973>

W. Siadak "Protocol Independent Multicast - Dense

, January 2005,

, and

,

,

.

Acknowledgments

The authors would like to thank
and contributions to this document.

Zheng (Sandy) Zhang

 and

Tanmoy Kundu

 for their suggestions

Bidgoli, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9739

PIM Light

March 2025

Authors' Addresses

editor
)

Hooman Bidgoli (
Nokia
March Road
Ottawa Ontario K2K 2T6
Canada
Email:

hooman.bidgoli@nokia.com

Stig Venaas
Cisco Systems, Inc.
Tasman Drive
San Jose CA 95134
,
United States of America
Email:

stig@cisco.com

Mankamana Mishra
Cisco Systems, Inc.
Tasman Drive
San Jose CA 95134
,
United States of America
Email:

mankamis@cisco.com

Zhaohui Zhang
Juniper Networks
Boston MA
United States of America
Email:

zzhang@juniper.net

,

Mike McBride
Futurewei Technologies Inc.
Santa Clara CA
,
United States of America
Email:

michael.mcbride@futurewei.com

Bidgoli, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

