Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9445
4014
Standards Track
August 2023
2070-1721
M. Boucadair
Orange

T. Reddy.K
Nokia

A. DeKok
FreeRADIUS

RFC 9445
RADIUS Extensions for DHCP-Configured Services

Abstract

This document specifies two new Remote Authentication Dial-In User Service (RADIUS) attributes
that carry DHCP options. The specification is generic and can be applicable to any service that
relies upon DHCP. Both DHCPv4- and DHCPv6-configured services are covered.

Also, this document updates RFC 4014 by relaxing a constraint on permitted RADIUS attributes in
the RADIUS Attributes DHCP suboption.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9445
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9445

RADIUS DHCP Options

August 2023

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9445

RADIUS DHCP Options

August 2023

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  RADIUS DHCP Options Attributes

3.1.  DHCPv6-Options Attribute

3.2.  DHCPv4-Options Attribute

4.  Passing RADIUS DHCP Options Attributes by DHCP Relay Agents to DHCP Servers

4.1.  Context

4.2.  Updates to RFC 4014

4.2.1.  Section 3 of RFC 4014

4.2.2.  Section 4 of RFC 4014

5.  An Example: Applicability to Encrypted DNS Provisioning

6.  Security Considerations

7.  Table of Attributes

8.  IANA Considerations

8.1.  New RADIUS Attributes

8.2.  New RADIUS Attribute Permitted in DHCPv6 RADIUS Option

8.3.  RADIUS Attributes Permitted in RADIUS Attributes DHCP Suboption

8.4.  DHCP Options Permitted in the RADIUS DHCP*-Options Attributes

8.4.1.  DHCPv6

8.4.2.  DHCPv4

8.4.3.  Guidelines for the Designated Experts

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

4

5

5

6

7

7

7

8

8

8

9

11

11

12

12

12

13

13

13

14

14

14

14

15

17

17

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9445

RADIUS DHCP Options

August 2023

1.  Introduction

In the context of broadband services, Internet Service Providers (ISPs) usually provide DNS
resolvers to their customers. To that aim, ISPs deploy dedicated mechanisms (e.g., DHCP
[RFC2132] [RFC8415]
) to advertise a list of DNS
recursive servers to their customers. Typically, the information used to populate DHCP messages
and/or IPv6 Router Advertisements relies upon specific Remote Authentication Dial-In User
Service (RADIUS)
in

 attributes, such as the DNS-Server-IPv6-Address Attribute specified

 and IPv6 Router Advertisement

[RFC6911]
.

[RFC4861]

[RFC2865]

, or DNS over QUIC (DoQ)

With the advent of encrypted DNS (e.g., DNS over HTTPS (DoH)
[RFC7858]
), additional means are required to provision hosts
with network-designated encrypted DNS. To fill that void,
 leverages existing protocols such
as DHCP to provide hosts with the required information to connect to an encrypted DNS resolver.
However, there are no RADIUS attributes that can be used to populate the discovery messages
discussed in
configured using DHCP.

. The same concern is likely to be encountered for future services that are

, DNS over TLS (DoT)

[RFC9250]

[RFC8484]

[DNR]

[DNR]

This document specifies two new RADIUS attributes: DHCPv6-Options (Section 3.1) and DHCPv4-
Options (Section 3.2). These attributes can include DHCP options that are listed in the "DHCPv6
Options Permitted in the RADIUS DHCPv6-Options Attribute" registry (Section 8.4.1) and the
"DHCP Options Permitted in the RADIUS DHCPv4-Options Attribute" registry (Section 8.4.2). These
two attributes are specified in order to accommodate both IPv4 and IPv6 deployment contexts
while taking into account the constraints in

Section 3.4 of [RFC6158]
.

The mechanism specified in this document is a generic mechanism and might be employed in
network scenarios where the DHCP server and the RADIUS client are located in the same device.
The new attributes can also be used in deployments that rely upon the mechanisms defined in
[RFC4014]
, which allow a DHCP relay agent that is collocated with a RADIUS client
to pass attributes obtained from a RADIUS server to a DHCP server. However, an update to
[RFC4014]
obtained from a RADIUS server to a DHCP server (Section 4).

 is required so that a DHCP relay agent can pass the DHCPv4-Options Attribute

[RFC7037]

 or

DHCP options that are included in the new RADIUS attributes can be controlled by a deployment-
specific policy. Discussing such a policy is out of scope.

This document adheres to

[RFC8044]

 for defining the new attributes.

A sample deployment usage of the RADIUS DHCPv6-Options and DHCPv4-Options Attributes is
described in Section 5.

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9445

RADIUS DHCP Options

August 2023

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

This document makes use of the terms defined in
following additional terms are used:

[RFC2865] [RFC8415]
,

, and

[RFC8499]

. The

DHCP:

refers to both DHCPv4

[RFC2132]

 and DHCPv6

[RFC8415]

.

Encrypted DNS:

refers to a scheme where DNS exchanges are transported over an encrypted

channel. Examples of encrypted DNS are DoT, DoH, and DoQ.

Encrypted DNS resolver:

DNS.

refers to a resolver (

Section 6 of [RFC8499]

) that supports encrypted

DHCP*-Options:

refers to the DHCPv4-Options and DHCPv6-Options Attributes (Section 3).

3.  RADIUS DHCP Options Attributes

This section specifies two new RADIUS attributes for RADIUS clients and servers to exchange
DHCP-encoded data. This data is then used to feed the DHCP procedure between a DHCP client
and a DHCP server.

Both the DHCPv4-Options and DHCPv6-Options Attributes use the "Long Extended Type" format
Section 2.2 of [RFC6929]
(

). The description of the fields is provided in Sections 3.1 and 3.2.

These attributes use the "Long Extended Type" format in order to permit the transport of
attributes encapsulating more than 253 octets of data. DHCP options that can be included in the
RADIUS DHCP*-Options Attributes are limited by the maximum packet size of 4096 bytes (
3 of [RFC2865]
). In order to accommodate deployments with large DHCP options, RADIUS
implementations are
recommendation can be met if RADIUS implementations support a mechanism that relaxes the
limit of 4096 bytes (e.g., the mechanisms described in

 to support a packet size up to 65535 bytes. Such a

RECOMMENDED

[RFC7499]

[RFC7930]

 or

).

Section

The Value fields of the DHCP*-Options Attributes are encoded in the clear and not encrypted like,
for example, the Tunnel-Password Attribute

[RFC2868]
.

RADIUS implementations may support a configuration parameter to control the DHCP options
that can be included in a RADIUS DHCP*-Options Attribute. Likewise, DHCP server
implementations may support a configuration parameter to control the permitted DHCP options
in a RADIUS DHCP*-Options Attribute. Absent explicit configuration, RADIUS implementations
and DHCP server implementations
 ignore non-permitted DHCP options received in a
RADIUS DHCP*-Options Attribute.

SHOULD

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9445

RADIUS DHCP Options

August 2023

RADIUS-supplied data is specific configuration data that is returned as a function of
authentication and authorization checks. As such, absent any explicit configuration on the DHCP
server, RADIUS-supplied data by means of the DHCP*-Options Attributes take precedence over
any local configuration.

These attributes are defined with globally unique names. The naming of the attributes follows
the guidelines in
Section 2.8 of
[RFC6929]
.

. Invalid attributes are handled as per

Section 2.7.1 of [RFC6929]

3.1.  DHCPv6-Options Attribute

This attribute is of type "string" as defined in

Section 3.5 of [RFC8044]
.

The DHCPv6-Options Attribute
in a RADIUS Access-Request packet as a hint to the RADIUS server to indicate a preference.
However, the server is not required to honor such a preference.

 appear in a RADIUS Access-Accept packet. It

MAY

MAY

 also appear

The DHCPv6-Options Attribute

MAY

 appear in a RADIUS CoA-Request packet.

The DHCPv6-Options Attribute

MAY

 appear in a RADIUS Accounting-Request packet.

The DHCPv6-Options Attribute

MUST NOT

 appear in any other RADIUS packet.

The DHCPv6-Options Attribute is structured as follows:

Type

245

Length

This field indicates the total length, in octets, of all fields of this attribute, including the Type,
Length, Extended-Type, and Value fields.

Extended-Type

3 (see Section 8.1)

Value

This field contains a list of DHCPv6 options (
same DHCPv6 option
considered separate, and the data areas of the options
otherwise combined. Consistent with
any option order when multiple options are present.

MAY

 be included. If an option appears multiple times, each instance is
MUST NOT

 be concatenated or

Section 17 of [RFC7227]

, this document does not impose

Section 21 of [RFC8415]

). Multiple instances of the

The permitted DHCPv6 options are listed in the "DHCPv6 Options Permitted in the RADIUS
DHCPv6-Options Attribute" registry (Section 8.4.1).

The DHCPv6-Options Attribute is associated with the following identifier: 245.3.

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9445

RADIUS DHCP Options

August 2023

3.2.  DHCPv4-Options Attribute

This attribute is of type "string" as defined in

Section 3.5 of [RFC8044]
.

The DHCPv4-Options Attribute
in a RADIUS Access-Request packet as a hint to the RADIUS server to indicate a preference.
However, the server is not required to honor such a preference.

 appear in a RADIUS Access-Accept packet. It

MAY

MAY

 also appear

The DHCPv4-Options Attribute

MAY

 appear in a RADIUS CoA-Request packet.

The DHCPv4-Options Attribute

MAY

 appear in a RADIUS Accounting-Request packet.

The DHCPv4-Options Attribute

MUST NOT

 appear in any other RADIUS packet.

The DHCPv4-Options Attribute is structured as follows:

Type

245

Length

This field indicates the total length, in octets, of all fields of this attribute, including the Type,
Length, Extended-Type, and Value fields.

Extended-Type

4 (see Section 8.1)

Value

This field contains a list of DHCPv4 options. Multiple instances of the same DHCPv4 option
 be included, especially for concatenation-requiring options that exceed the maximum
MAY
[RFC3396] MUST
DHCPv4 option size of 255 octets. The mechanism specified in
 be used for
splitting and concatenating the instances of a concatenation-requiring option.

The permitted DHCPv4 options are listed in the "DHCP Options Permitted in the RADIUS
DHCPv4-Options Attribute" registry (Section 8.4.2).

The DHCPv4-Options Attribute is associated with the following identifier: 245.4.

4.  Passing RADIUS DHCP Options Attributes by DHCP Relay
Agents to DHCP Servers

4.1.  Context

The RADIUS Attributes DHCP suboption
identification and authorization attributes received during RADIUS authentication to a DHCPv4
server. However,
such a suboption. This limitation is suboptimal in contexts where new services are deployed (e.g.,
support of encrypted DNS

 defines a frozen set of RADIUS attributes that can be included in

 enables a DHCPv4 relay agent to pass

[RFC4014]

[RFC4014]

[DNR]

).

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9445

RADIUS DHCP Options

August 2023

[RFC4014]

Section 4.2 updates
attributes to be tagged as permitted in the RADIUS Attributes DHCP suboption. The permitted
attributes are registered in the new "RADIUS Attributes Permitted in RADIUS Attributes DHCP
Suboption" registry (Section 8.3).

 by relaxing that constraint and allowing additional RADIUS

4.2.  Updates to RFC 4014

4.2.1.  Section 3 of RFC 4014

This document updates

Section 3 of [RFC4014]

 as follows:

OLD:

To avoid dependencies between the address allocation and other state information
between the RADIUS server and the DHCP server, the DHCP relay agent
 include
only the attributes in the table below in an instance of the RADIUS Attributes suboption.
The table, based on the analysis in RFC 3580 [8], lists attributes that

 be included:

SHOULD

MAY

           #   Attribute
         ---   ---------
           1   User-Name (RFC 2865 [3])
           6   Service-Type (RFC 2865)
          26   Vendor-Specific (RFC 2865)
          27   Session-Timeout (RFC 2865)
          88   Framed-Pool (RFC 2869)
         100   Framed-IPv6-Pool (RFC 3162 [7])

NEW:

To avoid dependencies between the address allocation and other state information
between the RADIUS server and the DHCP server, the DHCP relay agent
 only
include the attributes in the "RADIUS Attributes Permitted in RADIUS Attributes DHCP
Suboption" registry (Section 8.3 of [RFC9445]) in an instance of the RADIUS Attributes
DHCP suboption. The DHCP relay agent may support a configuration parameter to
control the attributes in a RADIUS Attributes DHCP suboption.

SHOULD

4.2.2.  Section 4 of RFC 4014

This document updates

Section 4 of [RFC4014]

 as follows:

OLD:

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9445

RADIUS DHCP Options

August 2023

If the relay agent relays RADIUS attributes not included in the table in Section 4, the
DHCP server

 ignore them.

SHOULD

NEW:

If the relay agent relays RADIUS attributes not included in the "RADIUS Attributes
Permitted in RADIUS Attributes DHCP Suboption" registry (Section 8.3 of [RFC9445]) and
explicit configuration is absent, the DHCP server

 ignore them.

SHOULD

5.  An Example: Applicability to Encrypted DNS Provisioning

Typical deployment scenarios are similar to those described, for instance, in
[RFC6911]
. For illustration purposes, Figure 1 shows an example where a Customer Premises
Equipment (CPE) is provided with an encrypted DNS resolver. This example assumes that the
Network Access Server (NAS) embeds both RADIUS client and DHCPv6 server capabilities.

Section 2 of

+-------------+           +-------------+             +-------+
|     CPE     |           |     NAS     |             |  AAA  |
|DHCPv6 Client|           |DHCPv6 Server|             |Server |
|             |           |RADIUS Client|             |       |
+------+------+           +------+------+             +---+---+
       |                         |                        |
       o-----DHCPv6 Solicit----->|                        |
       |                         o----Access-Request ---->|
       |                         |                        |
       |                         |<----Access-Accept------o
       |                         |     DHCPv6-Options     |
       |<----DHCPv6 Advertise----o    (OPTION_V6_DNR)     |
       |     (OPTION_V6_DNR)     |                        |
       |                         |                        |
       o-----DHCPv6 Request----->|                        |
       |                         |                        |
       |<------DHCPv6 Reply------o                        |
       |     (OPTION_V6_DNR)     |                        |
       |                         |                        |

                DHCPv6                     RADIUS

Figure 1: An Example of RADIUS IPv6 Encrypted DNS Exchange

Upon receipt of the DHCPv6 Solicit message from a CPE, the NAS sends a RADIUS Access-Request
message to the Authentication, Authorization, and Accounting (AAA) server. Once the AAA server
receives the request, it replies with an Access-Accept message (possibly after having sent a
RADIUS Access-Challenge message and assuming the CPE is entitled to connect to the network)

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9445

RADIUS DHCP Options

August 2023

that carries a list of parameters to be used for this session, which includes the encrypted DNS
information. Such information is encoded as OPTION_V6_DNR (144) instances
RADIUS DHCPv6-Options Attribute. These instances are then used by the NAS to complete the
DHCPv6 procedure that the CPE initiated to retrieve information about the encrypted DNS
service to use. The Discovery of Network-designated Resolvers (DNR) procedure defined in
is then followed between the DHCPv6 client and the DHCPv6 server.

 in the

[DNR]

[DNR]

Should any encrypted DNS-related information (e.g., Authentication Domain Name (ADN) and
IPv6 address) change, the RADIUS server sends a RADIUS Change-of-Authorization (CoA) message
[RFC5176]
 that carries the DHCPv6-Options Attribute with the updated OPTION_V6_DNR
information to the NAS. Once that message is received and validated by the NAS, it replies with a
RADIUS CoA ACK message. The NAS replaces the old encrypted DNS resolver information with
the new one and sends a DHCPv6 Reconfigure message, which leads the DHCPv6 client to initiate
a Renew/Reply message exchange with the DHCPv6 server.

In deployments where the NAS behaves as a DHCPv6 relay agent, the procedure discussed in
Section 3 of [RFC7037]
 can be followed. To that aim, the "RADIUS Attributes Permitted in DHCPv6
RADIUS Option" registry has been updated (Section 8.2). CoA-Requests can be used following the
procedure specified in

[RFC6977]
.

Figure 2 shows another example where a CPE is provided with an encrypted DNS resolver, but
the CPE uses DHCPv4 to retrieve its encrypted DNS resolver.

+-------------+           +-------------+             +-------+
|     CPE     |           |     NAS     |             |  AAA  |
|DHCPv4 Client|           |DHCPv4 Server|             |Server |
|             |           |RADIUS Client|             |       |
+------+------+           +------+------+             +---+---+
       |                         |                        |
       o------DHCPDISCOVER------>|                        |
       |                         o----Access-Request ---->|
       |                         |                        |
       |                         |<----Access-Accept------o
       |                         |     DHCPv4-Options     |
       |<-----DHCPOFFER----------o    (OPTION_V4_DNR)     |
       |     (OPTION_V4_DNR)     |                        |
       |                         |                        |
       o-----DHCPREQUEST-------->|                        |
       |     (OPTION_V4_DNR)     |                        |
       |                         |                        |
       |<-------DHCPACK----------o                        |
       |     (OPTION_V4_DNR)     |                        |
       |                         |                        |

               DHCPv4                      RADIUS

Figure 2: An Example of RADIUS IPv4 Encrypted DNS Exchange

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9445

RADIUS DHCP Options

August 2023

Other deployment scenarios can be envisaged, such as returning customized service parameters
(e.g., different DoH URI Templates) as a function of the service, policies, and preferences that are
set by a network administrator. How an administrator indicates its service, policies, and
preferences to a AAA server is out of scope.

6.  Security Considerations

RADIUS-related security considerations are discussed in

[RFC2865]
.

DHCPv6-related security issues are discussed in
security issues are discussed in
DHCP options that are carried in RADIUS are discussed in relevant documents that specify these
options. For example, security considerations (including traffic theft) are discussed in
[DNR]
.

. Security considerations specific to the

Section 22 of [RFC8415]

, while DHCPv4-related

Section 7 of [RFC2131]

Section 7 of

Section 3.5 of [RFC8044]

). This practice allows RADIUS servers to support newer standards

RADIUS servers have conventionally tolerated the input of arbitrary data via the "string" data
type (
without software upgrades, by allowing administrators to manually create complex attribute
content and then pass that content to a RADIUS server as opaque strings. While this practice is
useful, it is
updated to understand the format and encoding of DHCP options. Administrators can thus enter
the DHCP options as options instead of manually encoded opaque strings. This recommendation
increases security and interoperability by ensuring that the options are encoded correctly. It also
increases usability for administrators.

 that RADIUS servers that implement the present specification are

RECOMMENDED

The considerations discussed in
taken into account in deployments where DHCP relay agents pass the DHCP*-Options Attributes
to DHCP servers. Additional considerations specific to the use of Reconfigure messages are
discussed in

Section 9 of [RFC6977]
.

Section 7 of [RFC4014]

Section 8 of [RFC7037]

 should be

 and

7.  Table of Attributes

The following table provides a guide as to what type of RADIUS packets may contain these
attributes and in what quantity.

Access-Request

Access-
Accept

Access-
Reject

Challenge

#

Attribute

0+

0+

0+

0+

0

0

Accounting-
Request

CoA-Request

CoA-ACK

0

0

CoA-
NACK

245.3

245.4

DHCPv6-
Options

DHCPv4-
Options

#

Attribute

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9445

RADIUS DHCP Options

August 2023

Access-Request

Access-
Accept

Access-
Reject

Challenge

#

Attribute

0+

0+

0+

0+

0

0

0

0

245.3

245.4

DHCPv6-
Options

DHCPv4-
Options

Table 1: Table of Attributes

Notation for Table 1:

0

0+

This attribute

MUST NOT

 be present in packet.

Zero or more instances of this attribute

MAY

 be present in packet.

8.  IANA Considerations

8.1.  New RADIUS Attributes

IANA has assigned two new RADIUS attribute types in the "Radius Attribute Types"
Types]

 registry:

[RADIUS-

Value Description

Data Type

Reference

245.3

DHCPv6-Options

string

RFC 9445

245.4

DHCPv4-Options

string

RFC 9445

Table 2: New RADIUS Attributes

8.2.  New RADIUS Attribute Permitted in DHCPv6 RADIUS Option

IANA has added the following entry to the "RADIUS Attributes Permitted in DHCPv6 RADIUS
Option" subregistry in the "Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol for IPv6 (DHCPv6)" registry
[DHCPv6]
:

Type Code Attribute

Reference

245.3

DHCPv6-Options

RFC 9445

Table 3: New RADIUS Attribute Permitted in
DHCPv6 RADIUS Option

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9445

RADIUS DHCP Options

August 2023

8.3.  RADIUS Attributes Permitted in RADIUS Attributes DHCP Suboption

IANA has created a new subregistry entitled "RADIUS Attributes Permitted in RADIUS Attributes
DHCP Suboption" in the "Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) and Bootstrap Protocol
(BOOTP) Parameters" registry

[BOOTP]
.

The allocation policy of this new subregistry is "Expert Review" (
Designated experts should carefully consider the security implications of allowing a relay agent
to include new RADIUS attributes in this subregistry. Additional considerations are provided in
Section 8.4.3.

Section 4.5 of [RFC8126]

).

The initial contents of this subregistry are listed in Table 4. The Reference field includes the
document that registers or specifies the attribute.

Type Code Attribute

Reference

1

6

26

27

88

User-Name

[RFC2865]

Service-Type

[RFC2865]

Vendor-Specific

[RFC2865]

Session-Timeout

[RFC2865]

Framed-Pool

[RFC2869]

100

Framed-IPv6-Pool

[RFC3162]

245.4

DHCPv4-Options

RFC 9445

Table 4: Initial Contents of RADIUS Attributes
Permitted in RADIUS Attributes DHCP Suboption
Registry

8.4.  DHCP Options Permitted in the RADIUS DHCP*-Options Attributes

8.4.1.  DHCPv6

IANA has created a new subregistry entitled "DHCPv6 Options Permitted in the RADIUS DHCPv6-
Options Attribute" in the "Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol for IPv6 (DHCPv6)" registry
[DHCPv6]
.

The registration policy for this new subregistry is "Expert Review" (
more details in Section 8.4.3.

Section 4.5 of [RFC8126]

). See

The initial content of this subregistry is listed in Table 5. The Value and Description fields echo
[DHCPv6]
those in the "Option Codes" subregistry of
that registers or specifies the option.

. The Reference field includes the document

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9445

RADIUS DHCP Options

August 2023

Value Description

Reference

144

OPTION_V6_DNR

RFC 9445

Table 5: Initial Content of DHCPv6 Options
Permitted in the RADIUS DHCPv6-Options
Attribute Registry

8.4.2.  DHCPv4

IANA has created a new subregistry entitled "DHCP Options Permitted in the RADIUS DHCPv4-
Options Attribute" in the "Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) and Bootstrap Protocol
(BOOTP) Parameters" registry

[BOOTP]
.

The registration policy for this new subregistry is Expert Review (
more details in Section 8.4.3.

Section 4.5 of [RFC8126]

). See

The initial content of this subregistry is listed in Table 6. The Tag and Name fields echo those in
the "BOOTP Vendor Extensions and DHCP Options" subregistry of
. The Reference field
includes the document that registers or specifies the option.

[BOOTP]

Tag

Name

Reference

162

OPTION_V4_DNR

RFC 9445

Table 6: Initial Content of DHCPv4 Options
Permitted in the RADIUS DHCPv4-Options
Attribute Registry

8.4.3.  Guidelines for the Designated Experts

It is suggested that multiple designated experts be appointed for registry change requests.

Criteria that should be applied by the designated experts include determining whether the
proposed registration duplicates existing entries and whether the registration description is clear
and fits the purpose of this registry.

Registration requests are to be sent to <radius-dhcp-review@ietf.org> and are evaluated within a
three-week review period on the advice of one or more designated experts. Within the review
period, the designated experts will either approve or deny the registration request,
communicating this decision to the review list and IANA. Denials should include an explanation
and, if applicable, suggestions as to how to make the request successful.

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9445

RADIUS DHCP Options

August 2023

[RFC2865]

[RFC3396]

[RFC4014]

[RFC6158]

[RFC6929]

[RFC8044]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8415]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Rigney, C. Willens, S. Rubens, A.
In User Service (RADIUS)" RFC 2865 DOI 10.17487/RFC2865
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2865>

W. Simpson "Remote Authentication Dial
<https://

, and
,

, June 2000,

,

,

,

.

 and

S. Cheshire "Encoding Long Options in the Dynamic Host

Lemon, T.
Configuration Protocol (DHCPv4)" RFC 3396 DOI 10.17487/RFC3396
,
2002,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3396>

,

.

,

, November

 and

J. Schnizlein "Remote Authentication Dial-In User Service

Droms, R.
(RADIUS) Attributes Suboption for the Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol
(DHCP) Relay Agent Information Option" RFC 4014 DOI 10.17487/RFC4014
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4014>
February 2005,

,

,

,

.

DeKok, A., Ed.
DOI 10.17487/RFC6158

G. Weber "RADIUS Design Guidelines" BCP 158 RFC 6158
,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6158>
.

,
, March 2011,

 and

,

A. Lior "Remote Authentication Dial In User Service (RADIUS)

 and

DeKok, A.
Protocol Extensions" RFC 6929 DOI 10.17487/RFC6929
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6929>

,
,

,

.

, April 2013,

<https://

DeKok, A. "Data Types in RADIUS" RFC 8044 DOI 10.17487/RFC8044
,
2017,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8044>

,

.

,

, January

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

, June

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Mrugalski, T. Siodelski, M. Volz, B. Yourtchenko, A. Richardson, M. Jiang, S.
,
Lemon, T.
, and
(DHCPv6)" RFC 8415 DOI 10.17487/RFC8415
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc8415>

T. Winters "Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol for IPv6

, November 2018,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

9.2.  Informative References

[BOOTP]

[DHCPv6]

,

IANA "Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) and Bootstrap Protocol
(BOOTP) Parameters" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/bootp-dhcp-
parameters>

,

.

,

IANA "Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol for IPv6 (DHCPv6)" <https://
www.iana.org/assignments/dhcpv6-parameters>

,

.

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9445

RADIUS DHCP Options

August 2023

[DNR]

,

Boucadair, M., Ed. Reddy.K, T., Ed. Wing, D. Cook, N.
Router Advertisement Options for the Discovery of Network-designated
Resolvers (DNR)" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-add-dnr-16
,
April 2023,
.

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-add-dnr-16>

, and

,

,

,

, 27

T. Jensen "DHCP and

,

[RADIUS-Types]

IANA "RADIUS Types" <http://www.iana.org/assignments/radius-types>

,

,

.

[RFC2131]

[RFC2132]

[RFC2868]

[RFC2869]

[RFC3162]

[RFC4861]

[RFC5176]

[RFC6911]

[RFC6977]

[RFC7037]

[RFC7227]

Droms, R. "Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol" RFC 2131 DOI 10.17487/
RFC2131

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2131>

,
, March 1997,

,

,

.

 and

Alexander, S.
,
2132 DOI 10.17487/RFC2132
, March 1997,
,
rfc2132>

.

R. Droms "DHCP Options and BOOTP Vendor Extensions" RFC

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

Zorn, G. Leifer, D. Rubens, A. Shriver, J. Holdrege, M.
Attributes for Tunnel Protocol Support" RFC 2868 DOI 10.17487/RFC2868
2000,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2868>

I. Goyret "RADIUS
,
, June

, and

,
,

,

,

,

.

Rigney, C. Willats, W.
,
10.17487/RFC2869

, and
, June 2000,

P. Calhoun "RADIUS Extensions" RFC 2869 DOI
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2869>

,

,

.

Aboba, B. Zorn, G.
, and
,
RFC3162
, August 2001,

D. Mitton "RADIUS and IPv6" RFC 3162 DOI 10.17487/
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3162>
.

,

,

,

Narten, T. Nordmark, E. Simpson, W.
IP version 6 (IPv6)" RFC 4861 DOI 10.17487/RFC4861
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4861>

, and

,

,

.

H. Soliman "Neighbor Discovery for
,
<https://
, September 2007,

,

Chiba, M. Dommety, G. Eklund, M. Mitton, D.
B. Aboba "Dynamic
,
,
,
Authorization Extensions to Remote Authentication Dial In User Service
(RADIUS)" RFC 5176 DOI 10.17487/RFC5176
,
editor.org/info/rfc5176>

, January 2008,

, and

,

.

<https://www.rfc-

,

Dec, W., Ed. Sarikaya, B. Zorn, G., Ed. Miles, D.
, and
Attributes for IPv6 Access Networks" RFC 6911 DOI 10.17487/RFC6911
,
2013,
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6911>

B. Lourdelet "RADIUS

,
,

,

,

, April

Boucadair, M.
Agents" RFC 6977 DOI 10.17487/RFC6977
info/rfc6977>

X. Pougnard "Triggering DHCPv6 Reconfiguration from Relay
 and
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/
,

, July 2013,

,

,

.

 and

Yeh, L.
7037 DOI 10.17487/RFC7037
,
rfc7037>

.

,

M. Boucadair "RADIUS Option for the DHCPv6 Relay Agent" RFC
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, October 2013,

,

,

S. Krishnan "Guidelines
,
Hankins, D. Mrugalski, T. Siodelski, M. Jiang, S.
,
for Creating New DHCPv6 Options" BCP 187 RFC 7227 DOI 10.17487/RFC7227
,
May 2014,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7227>

, and

,

.

,

,

,

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9445

RADIUS DHCP Options

August 2023

[RFC7499]

[RFC7858]

[RFC7930]

[RFC8484]

[RFC8499]

[RFC9250]

,

Perez-Mendez, A., Ed. Marin-Lopez, R. Pereniguez-Garcia, F. Lopez-Millan, G.
,
Lopez, D.
7499 DOI 10.17487/RFC7499
,
rfc7499>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

A. DeKok "Support of Fragmentation of RADIUS Packets" RFC

, April 2015,

, and

,

.

,

,

,

,

Hu, Z. Zhu, L. Heidemann, J. Mankin, A. Wessels, D.
"Specification for DNS over Transport Layer Security (TLS)" RFC 7858 DOI
10.17487/RFC7858

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7858>

, May 2016,

P. Hoffman

, and

,

,

,

.

Hartman, S. "Larger Packets for RADIUS over TCP" RFC 7930 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7930

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7930>

, August 2016,

,

,

,

.

Hoffman, P.
10.17487/RFC8484

 and

P. McManus "DNS Queries over HTTPS (DoH)" RFC 8484 DOI

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8484>

, October 2018,

,

,

.

Hoffman, P. Sullivan, A.
,
8499 DOI 10.17487/RFC8499
,
rfc8499>

, and

.

K. Fujiwara "DNS Terminology" BCP 219 RFC
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, January 2019,

,

,

,

Huitema, C. Dickinson, S.
,
Connections" RFC 9250 DOI 10.17487/RFC9250
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc9250>
.

, and

A. Mankin "DNS over Dedicated QUIC

,

, May 2022,

<https://www.rfc-

Acknowledgements

Thanks to
Chongfeng Xie

,
 for the review and suggestions.

,

Christian Jacquenet Neil Cook Joe Clarke Qin Wu Dirk von-Hugo Tom Petch

,

,

,

, and

Thanks to

Ben Schwartz

 and

Bernie Volz

 for the comments.

Thanks to

Rob Wilton

 for the careful AD review.

Thanks to
Jinmei

 for the intdir review.

Ralf Weber

 for the dnsdir reviews,

Robert Sparks

 for the genart review, and

Tatuya

Thanks to

Éric Vyncke Paul Wouters
,

, and

Warren Kumari

 for the IESG review.

Authors' Addresses

Mohamed Boucadair
Orange
35000 Rennes
France
Email:

 mohamed.boucadair@orange.com

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9445

RADIUS DHCP Options

August 2023

Tirumaleswar Reddy.K
Nokia
India
Email:

 kondtir@gmail.com

Alan DeKok
FreeRADIUS
Email:

 aland@freeradius.org

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

