Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9183
Standards Track
February 2022
2070-1721
M. Zhang
Independent

D. Eastlake 3rd
Futurewei

R. Perlman
EMC

M. Cullen
Painless Security

H. Zhai
JIT

RFC 9183
Single Nickname for an Area Border RBridge in
Multilevel Transparent Interconnection of Lots of
Links (TRILL)

Abstract

A major issue in multilevel TRILL is how to manage RBridge nicknames. In this document, area
border RBridges use a single nickname in both Level 1 and Level 2. RBridges in Level 2 must
obtain unique nicknames but RBridges in diﬀerent Level 1 areas may have the same nicknames.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9183
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

Zhang, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9183

Single Nickname for Area Border RBridge in Multilevel TRILL

February 2022

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Acronyms and Terminology

3.  Nickname Handling on Border RBridges

3.1.  Actions on Unicast Packets

3.2.  Actions on Multi-destination Packets

4.  Per-Flow Load Balancing

4.1.  L2-to-L1 Ingress Nickname Replacement

4.2.  L1-to-L2 Egress Nickname Replacement

5.  Protocol Extensions for Discovery

5.1.  Discovery of Border RBridges in L1

5.2.  Discovery of Border RBridge Sets in L2

6.  One Border RBridge Connects Multiple Areas

7.  E-L1FS/E-L2FS Backwards Compatibility

8.  Manageability Considerations

9.  Security Considerations

10. IANA Considerations

11. References

11.1.  Normative References

11.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Level Transition Clariﬁcation

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

TRILL (Transparent Interconnection of Lots of Links)
are designed to improve TRILL scalability issues.

[RFC6325] [RFC7780]

 multilevel techniques

Zhang, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9183

Single Nickname for Area Border RBridge in Multilevel TRILL

February 2022

 is

[RFC8243]

[RFC8243]

, there have been two proposed approaches. One

"Alternatives for Multilevel Transparent Interconnection of Lots of Links (TRILL)"
an educational document to explain multilevel TRILL and list possible concerns. It does not
specify a protocol. As described in
approach, which is referred to as the "unique nickname" approach, gives unique nicknames to all
the TRILL switches in the multilevel campus either by having the Level 1/Level 2 border TRILL
switches advertise which nicknames are not available for assignment in the area or by
partitioning the 16-bit nickname into an "area" ﬁeld and a "nickname inside the area" ﬁeld.
 is the Standards Track document specifying a "unique nickname" ﬂavor of TRILL
[RFC8397]
multilevel. The other approach, which is referred to in
approach, involves assigning nicknames to the areas, and allowing nicknames to be reused
inside diﬀerent areas, by having the border TRILL switches rewrite the nickname ﬁelds when
entering or leaving an area.
[RFC8243]
solutions are simpler, aggregated nickname solutions scale better.

 makes the case that, while unique nickname multilevel

 as the "aggregated nickname"

[RFC8243]

[RFC8243]

The approach speciﬁed in this Standards Track document is somewhat similar to the "aggregated
 but with a very important diﬀerence. In this document, the
nickname" approach in
nickname of an area border RBridge is used in both Level 1 (L1) and Level 2 (L2). No additional
nicknames are assigned to represent L1 areas as such. Instead, multiple border RBridges are
allowed and each L1 area is denoted by the set of all nicknames of those border RBridges of the
 be unique but nicknames inside an L1
area. For this approach, nicknames in the L2 area
area can be reused in other L1 areas that also use this approach. The use of the approach speciﬁed
in this document in one L1 area does not prohibit the use of other approaches in other L1 areas in
the same TRILL campus, for example the use of the unique nickname approach speciﬁed in
. The TRILL packet format is unchanged by this document, but data plane processing is
[RFC8397]
changed at Border RBridges and eﬃcient high volume data ﬂow at Border RBridges might require
forwarding hardware change.

MUST

2.  Acronyms and Terminology

Area Border RBridge:

A border RBridge between a Level 1 area and Level 2.

Data Label:

VLAN or Fine-Grained Label (FGL).

DBRB:

Designated Border RBridge.

IS-IS:

Intermediate System to Intermediate System

[IS-IS]

.

Level:

Similar to IS-IS, TRILL has Level 1 for intra-area and Level 2 for inter-area. Routing
information is exchanged between Level 1 RBridges within the same Level 1 area, and Level 2
RBridges can only form relationships and exchange information with other Level 2 RBridges.

The key words "
", "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
", "
"
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

Familiarity with

[RFC6325]

 is assumed in this document.

Zhang, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9183

Single Nickname for Area Border RBridge in Multilevel TRILL

February 2022

3.  Nickname Handling on Border RBridges

This section provides an illustrative example and description of the border learning border
RBridge nicknames.

        Area {2,20}             Level 2             Area {3,30}
+-------------------+     +-----------------+     +--------------+
|                   |     |                 |     |              |
| S--RB27---Rx--Rz----RB2---Rb---Rc--Rd---Re--RB3---Rk--RB44---D |
|     27            |     |      39         |     |     44       |
|                 ----RB20---             ----RB30---            |
+-------------------+     +-----------------+     +--------------+

Figure 1: An Example Topology for TRILL Multilevel

In Figure 1, RB2, RB20, RB3, and RB30 are area border TRILL switches (RBridges). Their nicknames
are 2, 20, 3, and 30, respectively, and are used as TRILL switch identiﬁers in their areas
Area border RBridges use the set of border nicknames to denote the L1 area that they are
attached to. For example, RB2 and RB20 use nicknames {2,20} to denote the L1 area on the left.

[RFC6325]

.

A source S is attached to RB27 and a destination D is attached to RB44. RB27 has a nickname (say,
27), and RB44 has a nickname (say, 44). (In fact, they could even have the same nickname, since
the TRILL switch nickname will not be visible outside these Level 1 areas.)

3.1.  Actions on Unicast Packets

Let's say that S transmits a frame to destination D and let's say that D's location has been learned
by the relevant TRILL switches already. These relevant switches have learned the following:

1)

2)

RB27 has learned that D is connected to nickname 3.

RB3 has learned that D is attached to nickname 44.

The following sequence of events will occur:

1.

S transmits an Ethernet frame with source MAC = S and destination MAC = D.

2.

RB27 encapsulates with a TRILL header with ingress RBridge = 27 and egress RBridge = 3
producing a TRILL Data packet.

3.

RB2 and RB20 have announced in the Level 1 IS-IS area designated {2,20} that they are
attached to the nicknames of all the border RBridges in the Level 2 area including RB3 and
RB30. Therefore, IS-IS routes the packet to RB2 (or RB20, if RB20 is on the least-cost route from
RB27 to RB3).

4.

RB2, when transitioning the packet from Level 1 to Level 2, replaces the ingress TRILL switch
nickname with its own nickname, replacing 27 with 2. Within Level 2, the ingress RBridge
ﬁeld in the TRILL header will therefore be 2, and the egress RBridge ﬁeld will be 3. (The egress
nickname

 be replaced with any area nickname selected from {3,30} such as 30. See

MAY

Zhang, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9183

Single Nickname for Area Border RBridge in Multilevel TRILL

February 2022

Section 4 for the detail of the selection method. Here, suppose the egress nickname remains
3.) Also, RB2 learns that S is attached to nickname 27 in area {2,20} to accommodate return
traﬃc. RB2
SHOULD
Information (ESADI) protocol

 synchronize with RB20 using the End Station Address Distribution

 that MAC = S is attached to nickname 27.

[RFC7357]

5.

The packet is forwarded through Level 2, to RB3, which has advertised, in Level 2, its L2
nickname as 3.

6.

RB3, when forwarding into area {3,30}, replaces the egress nickname in the TRILL header with
RB44's nickname (44) based on looking up D. (The ingress nickname
any area nickname selected from {2,20}. See Section 4 for the detail of the selection method.
Here, suppose the ingress nickname remains 2.) So, within the destination area, the ingress
nickname will be 2 and the egress nickname will be 44.

 be replaced with

MAY

7.

RB44, when decapsulating, learns that S is attached to nickname 2, which is one of the area
nicknames of the ingress.

3.2.  Actions on Multi-destination Packets

Distribution trees for ﬂooding of multi-destination packets are calculated separately within each
L1 area and in L2. When a multi-destination packet arrives at the border, it needs to be
transitioned either from L1 to L2, or from L2 to L1. All border RBridges are eligible for Level
transition. However, for each multi-destination packet, only one of them acts as the Designated
Border RBridge (DBRB) to do the transition while other non-DBRBs
copies. By default, the border RBridge with the smallest nickname, considered as an unsigned
 agree on the mechanism used to
integer, is elected DBRB. All border RBridges of an area
determine the DBRB locally. The use of an alternative is possible, but out of the scope of this
document; one such mechanism is used in Section 4 for load balancing.

 drop the received

MUST

MUST

[RFC6325]

, multi-destination packets can be classiﬁed into three types: unicast packets
As per
with unknown destination MAC addresses (unknown-unicast packets), multicast packets, and
broadcast packets. Now suppose that D's location has not been learned by RB27 or the frame
received by RB27 is recognized as broadcast or multicast. What will happen within a Level 1 area
(as it would in TRILL today) is that RB27 will forward the packet as multi-destination, setting its M
bit to 1 and choosing an L1 tree, which would ﬂood the packet on that distribution tree (subject to
potential pruning).

When the copies of the multi-destination packet arrive at area border RBridges, non-DBRBs
drop the packet while the DBRB (say, RB2) needs to do the Level transition for the multi-
destination packet. For an unknown-unicast packet, if the DBRB has learned the destination MAC
address, it
destination packet will continue to be ﬂooded as a multicast packet on the distribution tree. The
DBRB chooses the new distribution tree by replacing the egress nickname with the new tree root
RBridge nickname from the area the packet is entering. The following sequence of events will
occur:

 convert the packet to unicast and set its M bit to 0. Otherwise, the multi-

SHOULD

MUST

1.

RB2, when transitioning the packet from Level 1 to Level 2, replaces the ingress TRILL switch
nickname with its own nickname, replacing 27 with 2. RB2 also
RBridge nickname with an L2 tree root RBridge nickname (say, 39). In order to accommodate

 replace the egress

MUST

Zhang, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9183

Single Nickname for Area Border RBridge in Multilevel TRILL

February 2022

return traﬃc, RB2 records that S is attached to nickname 27 and
protocol
(say, RB20) in the area.

[RFC7357]

 to synchronize this attachment information with other border RBridges

SHOULD

 use the ESADI

2.

RB20 will receive the packet ﬂooded on the L2 tree by RB2. It is important that RB20 does not
transition this packet back to L1 as it does for a multicast packet normally received from
another remote L1 area. RB20 should examine the ingress nickname of this packet. If this
nickname is found to be a border RBridge nickname of the area {2,20}, RB2 must not forward
the packet into this area.

3.

The multi-destination packet is ﬂooded on the Level 2 tree to reach all border routers for all
L1 areas including both RB3 and RB30. Suppose RB3 is the selected DBRB. The non-DBRB RB30
will drop the packet.

4.

MAY

RB3, when forwarding into area {3,30}, replaces the egress nickname in the TRILL header with
the root RBridge nickname of a distribution tree of L1 area {3,30} -- say, 30. (Here, the ingress
nickname
 be replaced with a diﬀerent area nickname selected from {2,20}, the set of
border RBridges to the ingress area, as speciﬁed in Section 4.) Now suppose that RB27 has
learned the location of D (attached to nickname 3), but RB3 does not know where D is
because this information has fallen out of cache or RB3 has restarted or some other reason.
In that case, RB3 must turn the packet into a multi-destination packet and then ﬂoods it on a
distribution tree in the L1 area {3,30}.

5.

RB30 will receive the packet ﬂooded on the L1 tree by RB3. It is important that RB30 does not
transition this packet back to L2. RB30 should also examine the ingress nickname of this
packet. If this nickname is found to be an L2 Border RBridge Nickname, RB30 must not
transition the packet back to L2.

6.

The multicast listener RB44, when decapsulating the received packet, learns that S is attached
to nickname 2, which is one of the area nicknames of the ingress.

See also Appendix A.

4.  Per-Flow Load Balancing

Area border RBridges perform ingress/egress nickname replacement when they transition TRILL
Data packets between Level 1 and Level 2. The egress nickname will again be replaced when the
packet transitions from Level 2 to Level 1. This nickname replacement enables the per-ﬂow load
balance, which is speciﬁed in the following subsections. The mechanism speciﬁed in Section 4.1 or
that in Section 4.2 or both is necessary in general to load-balance traﬃc across L2 paths.

4.1.  L2-to-L1 Ingress Nickname Replacement

When a TRILL Data packet from other L1 areas arrives at an area border RBridge, this RBridge
 select one area nickname of the ingress area to replace the ingress nickname of the packet
MAY
so that the returning TRILL Data packet can be forwarded to this selected nickname to help load-
balance return unicast traﬃc over multiple paths. The selection is simply based on a
pseudorandom algorithm as discussed in
nickname replacement, the border RBridge actually achieves a per-ﬂow load balance for
returning traﬃc.

. With the random ingress

Section 5.3 of [RFC7357]

Zhang, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9183

Single Nickname for Area Border RBridge in Multilevel TRILL

February 2022

MUST

 agree on the same pseudorandom algorithm. The
All area border RBridges for an L1 area
source MAC address, ingress area nicknames, egress area nicknames, and the Data Label of the
received TRILL Data packet are candidate factors of the input of this pseudorandom algorithm.
Note that the value of the destination MAC address
pseudorandom algorithm; otherwise, the egress RBridge could see one source MAC address ﬂip-
ﬂopping among multiple ingress RBridges.

 be excluded from the input of this

SHOULD

4.2.  L1-to-L2 Egress Nickname Replacement

MAY

 select one area nickname of the egress area to replace the egress

When a unicast TRILL Data packet originated from an L1 area arrives at an area border RBridge
of that L1 area, that RBridge
nickname of the packet. By default, it
least cost route to reach or, if there are multiple equal cost egress area border RBridges, use the
pseudorandom algorithm as deﬁned in
algorithm
that include non-least-cost alternatives if it is desired to obtain more load spreading at the cost of
sometimes using a non-least-cost Level 2 route to forward the TRILL Data packet to the egress
area.

 be extended to selection among some stable set of egress area border RBridges

 choose the egress area border RBridge with the

 to select one. The use of that

Section 5.3 of [RFC7357]

SHOULD

MAY

5.  Protocol Extensions for Discovery

The following topology change scenarios will trigger the discovery processes as deﬁned in
Sections 5.1 and 5.2:

•

A new node comes up or recovers from a previous failure.

•

A node goes down.

•

A link or node fails and causes partition of an L1/L2 area.

•

A link or node whose failure has caused partitioning of an L1/L2 area is repaired.

5.1.  Discovery of Border RBridges in L1

The following Level 1 Border RBridge APPsub-TLV will be included in E-L1FS FS-LSP fragment zero
[RFC7780]
 as an APPsub-TLV of the TRILL GENINFO-TLV. Through listening for this APPsub-TLV, an
area border RBridge discovers all other area border RBridges in this area.

+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| Type = L1-BORDER-RBRIDGE      | (2 bytes)
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| Length                        | (2 bytes)
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| Sender Nickname               | (2 bytes)
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Type:

Level 1 Border RBridge (TRILL APPsub-TLV type 256)

Length:

2

Zhang, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9183

Single Nickname for Area Border RBridge in Multilevel TRILL

February 2022

Sender Nickname: The nickname the originating IS will use as the L1 Border RBridge Nickname.

This ﬁeld is useful because the originating IS might own multiple nicknames.

5.2.  Discovery of Border RBridge Sets in L2

The following APPsub-TLV will be included in an E-L2FS FS-LSP fragment zero
APPsub-TLV of the TRILL GENINFO-TLV. Through listening to this APPsub-TLV in L2, an area
border RBridge discovers all groups of L1 border RBridges and each such group identiﬁes an area.

[RFC7780]

 as an

+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| Type = L1-BORDER-RB-GROUP     | (2 bytes)
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| Length                        | (2 bytes)
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| L1 Border RBridge Nickname 1  | (2 bytes)
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| ...                           |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| L1 Border RBridge Nickname k  | (2 bytes)
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Type:

Level 1 Border RBridge Group (TRILL APPsub-TLV type 257)

Length:

2 * k. If length is not a multiple of 2, the APPsub-TLV is corrupt and

MUST

 be ignored.

L1 Border RBridge Nickname:

The nickname that an area border RBridge uses as the L1 Border

 include all L1 Border RBridge Nicknames of the area. It's

RBridge Nickname. The L1-BORDER-RB-GROUP TLV generated by an area border RBridge
 that these k
MUST
nicknames are ordered in ascending order according to the 2-octet nickname considered as
an unsigned integer.

RECOMMENDED

When an L1 area is partitioned
and L2 through exchanging LSPs. In L2, the set of border RBridge nicknames for this splitting area
will change. Border RBridges that detect such a change
MUST
associated to any RBridge nickname from this changing set.

, border RBridges will re-discover each other in both L1

 ﬂush the reachability information

[RFC8243]

6.  One Border RBridge Connects Multiple Areas

It's possible that one border RBridge (say, RB1) connects multiple L1 areas. RB1
single area nickname for itself for all these areas to minimize nickname consumption and the
number of nicknames being advertised in L2; however, such a border RBridge might have to hold
multiple nicknames -- for example, it might be the root of multiple L1 or multiple L2 distribution
trees.

SHOULD

 use a

Nicknames used within one of these L1 areas can be reused within other areas. It's important that
packets destined to those duplicated nicknames are sent to the right area. Since these areas are
connected to form a layer 2 network, duplicated {MAC, Data Label} across these areas
SHOULD
NOT

 for tie breaking rules). Now suppose a TRILL Data packet

Section 4.2.6 of [RFC6325]

 occur (see

Zhang, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9183

Single Nickname for Area Border RBridge in Multilevel TRILL

February 2022

arrives at the area border nickname of RB1. For a unicast packet, RB1 can look up the {MAC, Data
Label} entry in its MAC table to identify the right destination area (i.e., the outgoing interface)
and the egress RBridge's nickname. For a multicast packet for each attached L1 area: either RB1 is
not the DBRB and RB1 will not transition the packet, or RB1 is the DBRB. If RB1 is the DBRB, RB1
follows the following rules:

•

If this packet originated from an area out of the connected areas, RB1 replicates this packet
and ﬂoods it on the proper Level 1 trees of all the areas in which it acts as the DBRB.

•

If the packet originated from one of the connected areas, RB1 replicates the packet it receives
from the Level 1 tree and ﬂoods it on other proper Level 1 trees of all the areas in which it acts
as the DBRB except the originating area (i.e., the area connected to the incoming interface).
RB1 might also receive the replication of the packet from the Level 2 tree. This replication
 be dropped by RB1. It recognizes such packets by their ingress nickname being the
MUST
nickname of one of the border RBridges of an L1 area for which the receiving border RBridge
is DBRB.

7.  E-L1FS/E-L2FS Backwards Compatibility

MUST

 support E-L2FS

All Level 2 RBridges
Section 5 are to be used in Extended Level 1/2 Flooding Scope (E-L1FS/E-L2FS) Protocol Data Units
(PDUs). Area border RBridges
 support both E-L1FS and E-L2FS. RBridges that do not support
both E-L1FS or E-L2FS cannot serve as area border RBridges but they can appear in an L1 area
acting as non-area-border RBridges.

. The Extended TLVs deﬁned in

[RFC7356] [RFC7780]

MUST

8.  Manageability Considerations

If an L1 Border RBridge Nickname is conﬁgured at an RBridge and that RBridge has both L1 and
L2 adjacencies, the multilevel feature as speciﬁed in this document is turned on for that RBridge
and normally uses an L2 nickname in both L1 and L2 although, as provided below, such an
RBridge may have to fall back to multilevel unique nickname behavior
uses this L1 nickname. In contrast, unique nickname multilevel as speciﬁed in
enabled by the presence of L1 and L2 adjacencies without an L1 Border RBridge Nickname being
conﬁgured. RBridges supporting only unique nickname multilevel do not support the
conﬁguration of an L2 Border RBridge Nickname. RBridges supporting only the single-level TRILL
base protocol speciﬁed in

, in which case it
 is

 do not support L2 adjacencies.

[RFC8397]

[RFC8397]

[RFC6325]

MUST

 support unique nickname multilevel

RBridges that support and are conﬁgured to use single nickname multilevel as speciﬁed in this
document
RBridges between an L1 area and L2, and one or more of them only support or are only
conﬁgured for unique nickname multilevel
[RFC8397]
conﬁgured to use single nickname multilevel
MUST
border RBridge for that L1 area. Because overlapping sets of RBridges may be the border RBridges
for diﬀerent L1 areas, an RBridge supporting single nickname
support single nickname for some of its L1 areas and unique nickname for others. For example,
RB1 and RB2 might be border RBridges for L1 area A1 using single nickname while RB2 and RB3

, any of these border RBridges that are
 fall back to behaving as a unique nickname

. If there are multiple border

 be able to simultaneously

[RFC8397]

MUST

Zhang, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9183

Single Nickname for Area Border RBridge in Multilevel TRILL

February 2022

are border RBridges for area A2. If RB3 only supports unique nicknames, then RB2 must fall back
to unique nickname for area A2 but continue to support single nickname for area A1. Operators
SHOULD
nickname multilevel can be detected because they advertise in L1 the blocks of nicknames
available within that L1 area.

 be notiﬁed when this fallback occurs. The presence of border RBridges using unique

In both the unique nickname approach speciﬁed in
aggregated approach speciﬁed in this document, an RBridge that has L1 and L2 adjacencies uses
the same nickname in L1 and L2. If an RBridge is conﬁgured with an L1 Border RBridge Nickname
for any a Level 1 area, it uses this nickname across the Level 2 area. This L1 Border RBridge
Nickname cannot be used in any other Level 1 area except other Level 1 areas for which the same
RBridge is a border RBridge with this L1 Border RBridge Nickname conﬁgured.

 and the single nickname

[RFC8397]

In addition to the manageability considerations speciﬁed above, the manageability
speciﬁcations in

 still apply.

[RFC6325]

Border RBridges replace ingress and/or egress nickname when a TRILL Data packet traverses a
TRILL L2 area. A TRILL Operations, Administration, and Maintenance (OAM) message will be
forwarded through the multilevel single nickname TRILL campus using a MAC address belonging
to the destination RBridge

[RFC7455]

.

9.  Security Considerations

For general TRILL Security Considerations, see

[RFC6325]

.

The newly deﬁned TRILL APPsub-TLVs in Section 5 are transported in IS-IS PDUs whose
authenticity can be enforced using regular IS-IS security mechanism
devices may also fake the APPsub-TLVs to attract TRILL Data packets, interfere with multilevel
TRILL operation, induce excessive state in TRILL switches (or in any bridges that may be part of
the TRILL campus), etc. For this reason, RBridges
Authentication TLV (10) in their IS-IS PDUs so that IS-IS security
authenticate those PDUs and discard them if they are forged.

 be conﬁgured to use the IS-IS

[IS-IS] [RFC5310]

 can be used to

[RFC5310]

SHOULD

. Malicious

Using a variation of aggregated nicknames, and the resulting possible duplication of nicknames
between areas, increases the possibility of a TRILL Data packet being delivered to the wrong
egress RBridge if areas are unexpectedly merged as compared with a scheme where all
nicknames in the TRILL campus are, except as a transient condition, unique such as the scheme
in
it would not match a known end station Data Label / MAC address.

. However, in many cases, the data would be discarded at that egress RBridge because

[RFC8397]

10.  IANA Considerations

IANA has allocated two new types under the TRILL GENINFO TLV
allocated by Standards Action
following entries have been added to the "TRILL APPsub-TLV Types under IS-IS TLV 251
Application Identiﬁer 1" registry on the TRILL Parameters IANA web page.

 for the TRILL APPsub-TLVs deﬁned in Section 5. The

 from the range

[RFC8126]

[RFC7357]

Zhang, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9183

Single Nickname for Area Border RBridge in Multilevel TRILL

February 2022

Type Name

Reference

L1-BORDER-RBRIDGE

RFC 9183

L1-BORDER-RB-GROUP

RFC 9183

256

257

Table 1

11.  References

11.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC6325]

[RFC7356]

[RFC7357]

[RFC7455]

[RFC7780]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

,

,
Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
rfc2119>
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

,
Perlman, R. Eastlake 3rd, D. Dutt, D. Gai, S.
(RBridges): Base Protocol Speciﬁcation" RFC 6325 DOI 10.17487/RFC6325
2011,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6325>

A. Ghanwani "Routing Bridges

, and

, July

,

,

,

,

,
Ginsberg, L. Previdi, S.
(LSPs)" RFC 7356 DOI 10.17487/RFC7356
.
editor.org/info/rfc7356>

, and

,

,

,

Y. Yang "IS-IS Flooding Scope Link State PDUs

, September 2014,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

Zhai, H. Hu, F. Perlman, R. Eastlake 3rd, D.
Interconnection of Lots of Links (TRILL): End Station Address Distribution
,
,
Information (ESADI) Protocol" RFC 7357 DOI 10.17487/RFC7357
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7357>

O. Stokes "Transparent

, and

,

,

, September 2014,

,

,

,

,
Senevirathne, T. Finn, N. Salam, S. Kumar, D. Eastlake 3rd, D. Aldrin, S.
Y.
,
Li "Transparent Interconnection of Lots of Links (TRILL): Fault Management"
, March 2015,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 7455 DOI 10.17487/RFC7455
.
rfc7455>

, and

,

,

,

Eastlake 3rd, D. Zhang, M. Perlman, R. Banerjee, A. Ghanwani, A.
"Transparent Interconnection of Lots of Links (TRILL): Clariﬁcations,
Corrections, and Updates" RFC 7780 DOI 10.17487/RFC7780
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7780>

,

,

,

,

,

, February 2016,

, and

S. Gupta

,

,
Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

, June

,
,
Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
.
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

Zhang, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9183

Single Nickname for Area Border RBridge in Multilevel TRILL

February 2022

[RFC8397]

,

,
Zhang, M. Eastlake 3rd, D. Perlman, R. Zhai, H.
,
Interconnection of Lots of Links (TRILL) Multilevel Using Unique Nicknames"
,
RFC 8397 DOI 10.17487/RFC8397
.
rfc8397>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

D. Liu "Transparent

, May 2018,

, and

,

,

11.2.  Informative References

[IS-IS]

[RFC5310]

[RFC8243]

International Organization for Standardization "Information technology --
Telecommunications and information exchange between systems --
Intermediate System to Intermediate System intra-domain routeing
information exchange protocol for use in conjunction with the protocol for
providing the connectionless-mode network service (ISO 8473)" ISO 8473 ISO/
IEC 10589:2002 Second Edition
, November 2002.
,

,

,

,

,

Bhatia, M. Manral, V. Li, T. Atkinson, R. White, R.
,
Cryptographic Authentication" RFC 5310 DOI 10.17487/RFC5310
,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5310>
.

, and

,

,

M. Fanto "IS-IS Generic
,
, February 2009,

,

Perlman, R. Eastlake 3rd, D. Zhang, M. Ghanwani, A.
H. Zhai "Alternatives
,
for Multilevel Transparent Interconnection of Lots of Links (TRILL)" RFC 8243
,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8243>
DOI 10.17487/RFC8243
.

, September 2017,

, and

,

,

Appendix A.  Level Transition Clariﬁcation

It's possible that an L1 RBridge is only reachable from a non-DBRB border RBridge. If this non-
DBRB RBridge refrains from Level transition, the question is, how can a multicast packet reach
this L1 RBridge? The answer is, it will be reached after the DBRB performs the Level transition and
ﬂoods the packet using an L1 distribution tree.

Take the following ﬁgure as an example. RB77 is reachable from the border RBridge RB30 while
RB3 is the DBRB. RB3 transitions the multicast packet into L1 and ﬂoods the packet on the
distribution tree rooted from RB3. This packet is ﬁnally ﬂooded to RB77 via RB30.

       Area{3,30}
     +--------------+          (root) RB3 o
     |              |                      \
-RB3 |              |                       o RB30
  |  |              |                      /
-RB30-RB77          |                RB77 o
     +--------------+

     Example Topology               L1 Tree

In the above example, the multicast packet is forwarded along a non-optimal path. A possible
improvement is to have RB3 conﬁgured not to belong to this area. In this way, RB30 will surely act
as the DBRB to do the Level transition.

Zhang, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9183

Single Nickname for Area Border RBridge in Multilevel TRILL

February 2022

Authors' Addresses

Mingui Zhang
Independent
Beijing
China
Email:

 zhangmingui@qq.com

Donald E. Eastlake, 3rd
Futurewei Technologies
2386 Panoramic Circle
Apopka FL 32703
,
United States of America
Phone:
Email:

 +1-508-333-2270
 d3e3e3@gmail.com

Radia Perlman
EMC
2010 256th Avenue NE, #200
Bellevue WA 98007
,
United States of America
Email:

 radia@alum.mit.edu

Margaret Cullen
Painless Security
356 Abbott Street
North Andover MA 01845
,
United States of America
Phone:
Email:
URI:

 +1-781-405-7464
 margaret@painless-security.com
 https://www.painless-security.com

Hongjun Zhai
Jinling Institute of Technology
99 Hongjing Avenue, Jiangning District
Nanjing
Jiangsu 211169
,
China
Email:

 honjun.zhai@tom.com

Zhang, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

