Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9737
Standards Track
February 2025
2070-1721
T. Haynes
Hammerspace

T. Myklebust
Hammerspace

RFC 9737
Reporting Errors in NFSv4.2 via LAYOUTRETURN

Abstract

The Parallel Network File System (pNFS) allows for a file's metadata and data to be on different
servers (i.e., the metadata server (MDS) and the data server (DS)). When the MDS is restarted, the
client can still modify the data file component. During the recovery phase of startup, the MDS
and the DSs work together to recover state. If the client has not encountered errors with the data
files, then the state can be recovered and the resilvering of the data files can be avoided. With
any errors, there is no means by which the client can report errors to the MDS. As such, the MDS
has to assume that a file needs resilvering. This document presents an extension to RFC 8435 to
allow the client to update the metadata via LAYOUTRETURN and avoid the resilvering.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9737
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Haynes & Myklebust

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9737

Reporting Errors via LAYOUTRETURN

February 2025

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Definitions

1.2.  Requirements Language

2.  Layout State Recovery

2.1.  When to Resilver

2.2.  Version Mismatch Considerations

3.  Security Considerations

4.  IANA Considerations

5.  Normative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

2

2

3

3

4

5

5

5

5

6

6

In the Network File System version 4 (NFSv4) with a Parallel NFS (pNFS) flexible file layout
[RFC8435]
the metadata server (MDS) about an error that occurred during a WRITE operation (see
18.32 of [RFC8881]
) to the data servers (DSs) in the period of the outage.

 server, during recovery after a restart, there is no mechanism for the client to inform
Section

Using the process detailed in
[RFC7862]
NFSv4.2
generated from

[RFC7863]
.

. They are built on top of the External Data Representation (XDR)

, the revisions in this document become an extension of
[RFC4506]

[RFC8178]

1.1.  Definitions

See

Section 1.1 of [RFC8435]

 for a set of definitions.

Haynes & Myklebust

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9737

Reporting Errors via LAYOUTRETURN

February 2025

1.2.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Layout State Recovery

When an MDS restarts, clients are provided a grace recovery period where they are allowed to
recover any state that they had established. With open files, the client can send an OPEN
operation (see
9.11 of [RFC8881]
[RFC8881]

). The client uses the RECLAIM_COMPLETE operation (see

) to notify the MDS that it is done reclaiming state.

) with a claim type of CLAIM_PREVIOUS (see

Section 18.16 of [RFC8881]

Section 18.51 of

Section

The NFSv4 flexible file layout type allows for the client to mirror files (see
[RFC8435]
). With client-side mirroring, it is important for the client to inform the MDS of any I/O
errors encountered with one of the mirrors. This is the only way for the MDS to determine if one
Section 1.1 of
or more of the mirrors are corrupt and then repair the mirrors via resilvering (see
[RFC8435]
) and the ff_ioerr4
structure (see

). The client can use LAYOUTRETURN (see

) to inform the MDS of I/O errors.

Section 18.44 of [RFC8881]

Section 9.1.1 of [RFC8435]

Section 8 of

MUST

 requires that the client

Section 12.7.4 of [RFC8881]

A problem arises when the MDS restarts and the client has errors it needs to report but cannot
do so.
intent there is that the client
layout stateids are no longer valid. The LAYOUTRETURN needs a layout stateid to proceed, and
the client cannot get a layout during grace recovery (see
) to recover
layout state. As such, clients have no choice but to not recover files with I/O errors. In turn, the
MDS
because even if the MDS can determine that the client did modify data during the outage, it
NOT

 assume that the mirrors are inconsistent and pick one for resilvering. It is a

 stop doing I/O to the storage devices, it is also true that the

 assume those modifications were consistent.

 stop using layouts. While the

Section 12.7.4 of [RFC8881]

MUST

MUST

MUST

MUST

MUST

To fix this issue, the MDS
[RFC8881]
use this anonymous stateid to inform the MDS of errors encountered. The MDS can then
accurately resilver the file by picking the mirror(s) that does not have any associated errors.

 accept the anonymous stateid of all zeros (see

) for the lrf_stateid in LAYOUTRETURN (see

Section 18.44.1 of [RFC8881]

Section 8.2.3 of

). The client can

During the grace period, if the client sends an lrf_stateid in the LAYOUTRETURN with any value
other than the anonymous stateid of all zeros, then the MDS
NFS4ERR_GRACE (see
lrf_stateid in the LAYOUTRETURN with a value of the anonymous stateid of all zeros, then the
).
MDS

 respond with an error of NFS4ERR_NO_GRACE (see

). After the grace period, if the client sends an

Section 15.1.9.3 of [RFC8881]

Section 15.1.9.2 of [RFC8881]

 respond with an error of

MUST

MUST

Also, when the MDS builds the reply to the LAYOUTRETURN with an lrf_stateid with the value of
the anonymous stateid of all zeros, it

 bump the seqid of the lorr_stateid.

MUST NOT

Haynes & Myklebust

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9737

Reporting Errors via LAYOUTRETURN

February 2025

If the MDS detects that the layout being returned in the LAYOUTRETURN does not match the
current mirror instances found for the file, then it
the file in question.

 ignore the LAYOUTRETURN and resilver

MUST

MUST

 resilver any files that are neither explicitly recovered with a CLAIM_PREVIOUS

The MDS
nor have a reported error via a LAYOUTRETURN. The client has most likely restarted and lost any
state.

2.1.  When to Resilver

A write intent occurs when a client opens a file and gets a LAYOUTIOMODE4_RW from the MDS.
The MDS
those write intents. The method that the MDS uses to track write intents is implementation
specific, i.e., outside the scope of this document.

 track outstanding write intents, and when it restarts, it

 track recovery of

MUST

MUST

The decision to resilver a file depends on how the client recovers the file before the grace period
ends. If the client reclaims the file and reports no errors, the MDS
the client reports an error on the file, then the file
reclaim or report an error before the grace period ends, then under the old behavior, the MDS
MUST

 be resilvered. If the client does not

 resilver the file. If

 resilver the file.

MUST NOT

MUST

The resilvering process is broadly to:

1.

fence the file (see

Section 2.2 of [RFC8435]

),

2.

record the need to resilver,

3.

release the write intent, and

4.

once there are no write intents on the file, start the resilvering process.

MUST NOT

The MDS
clients might have the file open with write intents. As the MDS
also track the need to resilver, i.e., if the MDS restarts during the grace period, it
file recovery if it replays the write intent, or else it
resilvering intent.

 resilver a file if there are clients with outstanding write intents, i.e., multiple
MUST
 restart the

 start the resilvering if it replays the

 track write intents, it

MUST

MUST

MUST

Whether the MDS prevents all I/O to the file until the resilvering is done, forces all I/O to go
through the MDS, or allows a proxy server to update the new data file as it is being resilvered is
all an implementation choice. The constraint is that the MDS is responsible for the reconstruction
of the data file and for the consistency of the mirrors.

If the MDS does allow the client access to the file during the resilvering, then the client
have the same layout (set of mirror instances) after the MDS as before. One way that such a
resilvering can occur is for a proxy server to be inserted into the layout. That server will be
copying a good mirror instance to a new instance. As it gets I/O via the layout, it will be
responsible for updating the copy it is performing. This requirement is that the proxy server
MUST

 stay in the layout until the grace period is finished.

MUST

Haynes & Myklebust

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9737

Reporting Errors via LAYOUTRETURN

February 2025

2.2.  Version Mismatch Considerations

The MDS has no expectations for the client to use this new functionality. Therefore, if the client
does not use it, the MDS will function normally.

If the client does use the new functionality and the MDS does not support it, then the MDS
reply with a NFS4ERR_BAD_STATEID to the LAYOUTRETURN. If the client detects a
NFS4ERR_BAD_STATEID error in this scenario, it should fall back to the old behavior of not
reporting errors.

MUST

3.  Security Considerations

There are no new security considerations beyond those in

[RFC7862]
.

4.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

5.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC4506]

[RFC7862]

[RFC7863]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8178]

[RFC8435]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Eisler, M., Ed. "XDR: External Data Representation Standard" STD 67 RFC 4506
DOI 10.17487/RFC4506

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4506>

, May 2006,

,

,

,

.

,

,

Haynes, T. "Network File System (NFS) Version 4 Minor Version 2 Protocol" RFC
7862 DOI 10.17487/RFC7862
,
rfc7862>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, November 2016,

,

.

,

Haynes, T. "Network File System (NFS) Version 4 Minor Version 2 External Data
Representation Standard (XDR) Description" RFC 7863 DOI 10.17487/RFC7863
,
November 2016,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7863>

,

,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

.

,

,

,

Noveck, D. "Rules for NFSv4 Extensions and Minor Versions" RFC 8178 DOI
10.17487/RFC8178

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8178>

, July 2017,

,
.

,

,

Halevy, B.
DOI 10.17487/RFC8435

T. Haynes "Parallel NFS (pNFS) Flexible File Layout" RFC 8435
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8435>
.

, August 2018,

 and

,

,

Haynes & Myklebust

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9737

Reporting Errors via LAYOUTRETURN

February 2025

[RFC8881]

Noveck, D., Ed.
Version 1 Protocol" RFC 8881 DOI 10.17487/RFC8881
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8881>

C. Lever "Network File System (NFS) Version 4 Minor
 and
,

, August 2020,

,

.

,

<https://

Acknowledgments

Tigran Mkrtchyan Jeff Layton

,

, and

Rick Macklem

 provided reviews of the document.

Authors' Addresses

Thomas Haynes
Hammerspace
Email:

loghyr@gmail.com

Trond Myklebust
Hammerspace
Email:

trondmy@hammerspace.com

Haynes & Myklebust

Standards Track

Page 6

