Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:
X. Xu
Capitalonline

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9089
Standards Track
August 2021
2070-1721

S. Kini

P. Psenak
Cisco Systems, Inc.

C. Filsﬁls
Cisco Systems, Inc.

S. Litkowski
Cisco Systems, Inc.

M. Bocci
Nokia

RFC 9089
Signaling Entropy Label Capability and Entropy
Readable Label Depth Using OSPF

Abstract

Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) has deﬁned a mechanism to load-balance traﬃc ﬂows
using Entropy Labels (EL). An ingress Label Switching Router (LSR) cannot insert ELs for packets
going into a given Label Switched Path (LSP) unless an egress LSR has indicated via signaling that
it has the capability to process ELs, referred to as the Entropy Label Capability (ELC), on that LSP.
In addition, it would be useful for ingress LSRs to know each LSR's capability for reading the
maximum label stack depth and performing EL-based load-balancing, referred to as Entropy
Readable Label Depth (ERLD). This document deﬁnes a mechanism to signal these two
capabilities using OSPFv2 and OSPFv3, and Border Gateway Protocol - Link State (BGP-LS).

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9089

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9089

Signaling ELC and ERLD Using OSPF

August 2021

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  Advertising ELC Using OSPF

3.1.  Advertising ELC Using OSPFv2

3.2.  Advertising ELC Using OSPFv3

4.  Advertising ERLD Using OSPF

5.  Signaling ELC and ERLD in BGP-LS

6.  IANA Considerations

7.  Security Considerations

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

8.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

 describes a method to load-balance Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) traﬃc ﬂows

[RFC6790]
using Entropy Labels (EL). It also introduces the concept of Entropy Label Capability (ELC) and
deﬁnes the signaling of this capability via MPLS signaling protocols. Recently, mechanisms have
been deﬁned to signal labels via link-state Interior Gateway Protocols (IGP) such as OSPFv2
[RFC8665]
OSPFv2 and OSPFv3.

. This document deﬁnes a mechanism to signal the ELC using

 and OSPFv3

[RFC8666]

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9089

Signaling ELC and ERLD Using OSPF

August 2021

In cases where Segment Routing (SR) is used with the MPLS data plane (e.g., SR-MPLS
it would be useful for ingress LSRs to know each intermediate LSR's capability of reading the
maximum label stack depth and performing EL-based load-balancing. This capability, referred to
as Entropy Readable Label Depth (ERLD) as deﬁned in
, may be used by ingress LSRs to
determine the position of the EL label in the stack, and whether it is necessary to insert multiple
ELs at diﬀerent positions in the label stack. This document deﬁnes a mechanism to signal the
ERLD using OSPFv2 and OSPFv3.

[RFC8662]

[RFC8660]

),

2.  Terminology

This memo makes use of the terms deﬁned in

[RFC6790]

 and

[RFC8662]
.

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

The key word OSPF is used throughout the document to refer to both OSPFv2 and OSPFv3.

3.  Advertising ELC Using OSPF

Even though ELC is a property of the node, in some cases it is advantageous to associate and
advertise the ELC with a preﬁx. In multi-area networks, routers may not know the identity of the
preﬁx originator in a remote area or may not know the capabilities of such an originator.
Similarly, in a multi-domain network, the identity of the preﬁx originator and its capabilities may
not be known to the ingress LSR.

If a router has multiple interfaces, the router
are capable of processing ELs.

MUST NOT

 announce ELC unless all of its interfaces

If the router supports ELs on all of its interfaces, it
host preﬁx it advertises in OSPF.

SHOULD

 advertise the ELC with every local

3.1.  Advertising ELC Using OSPFv2

[RFC7684]
 deﬁnes the OSPFv2 Extended Preﬁx TLV to advertise additional attributes associated
with a preﬁx. The OSPFv2 Extended Preﬁx TLV includes a one-octet Flags ﬁeld. A new ﬂag in the
Flags ﬁeld is used to signal the ELC for the preﬁx:

0x20 - E-Flag (ELC Flag):

Set by the advertising router to indicate that the preﬁx originator is capable of processing ELs.

The ELC signaling
information between areas. To do so, an ABR
Link State Advertisement (LSA)

[RFC7684]

MUST

MUST

 originate an OSPFv2 Extended Preﬁx Opaque

 including the received ELC setting.

 be preserved when an OSPF Area Border Router (ABR) distributes

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9089

Signaling ELC and ERLD Using OSPF

August 2021

When an OSPF Autonomous System Border Router (ASBR) redistributes a preﬁx from another
instance of OSPF or from some other protocol, it
preﬁx if it exists. To do so, an ASBR
including the ELC setting of the redistributed preﬁx. The ﬂooding scope of the Extended Preﬁx
Opaque LSA
redistribution. The exact mechanism used to exchange ELC between protocol instances on an
ASBR is outside of the scope of this document.

 match the ﬂooding scope of the LSA that an ASBR originates as a result of the

 originate an Extended Preﬁx Opaque LSA

 preserve the ELC signaling for the

SHOULD

SHOULD

MUST

[RFC7684]

3.2.  Advertising ELC Using OSPFv3

[RFC5340]
A new bit in the OSPFv3 PreﬁxOptions ﬁeld is used to signal the ELC for the preﬁx:

 deﬁnes the OSPFv3 PreﬁxOptions ﬁeld to indicate capabilities associated with a preﬁx.

0x40 - E-Flag (ELC Flag):

Set by the advertising router to indicate that the preﬁx originator is capable of processing ELs.

MUST

 be preserved when an OSPFv3 Area Border Router (ABR) distributes

The ELC signaling
information between areas. The setting of the ELC Flag in the Inter-Area-Preﬁx-LSA
in the Inter-Area-Preﬁx TLV
ELC Flag associated with the preﬁx in the source area.

 or
 be the same as the value the

, generated by an ABR,

[RFC8362]

[RFC5340]

MUST

When an OSPFv3 Autonomous System Border Router (ASBR) redistributes a preﬁx from another
instance of OSPFv3 or from some other protocol, it
preﬁx if it exists. The setting of the ELC Flag in the AS-External-LSA, Not-So-Stubby Area LSA
(NSSA-LSA)
 be
MUST
the same as the value of the ELC Flag associated with the preﬁx in the source domain. The exact
mechanism used to exchange ELC between protocol instances on the ASBR is outside of the scope
of this document.

 preserve the ELC signaling for the

, or in the External-Preﬁx TLV

, generated by an ASBR,

[RFC5340]

[RFC8362]

SHOULD

4.  Advertising ERLD Using OSPF

The ERLD is advertised in a Node Maximum SID Depth (MSD) TLV
MSD type deﬁned in

[RFC9088]

.

[RFC8476]

 using the ERLD-

If a router has multiple interfaces with diﬀerent capabilities of reading the maximum label stack
depth, the router

 advertise the smallest value found across all of its interfaces.

MUST

The absence of ERLD-MSD advertisements indicates only that the advertising node does not
support advertisement of this capability.

When the ERLD-MSD type is received in the OSPFv2 or OSPFv3 Link MSD sub-TLV
MUST

 be ignored.

[RFC8476]

, it

The considerations for advertising the ERLD are speciﬁed in

[RFC8662]
.

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9089

Signaling ELC and ERLD Using OSPF

August 2021

5.  Signaling ELC and ERLD in BGP-LS

The OSPF extensions deﬁned in this document can be advertised via BGP-LS (distribution of
Link-State and TE information using BGP)

 using existing BGP-LS TLVs.

[RFC7752]

The ELC is advertised using the Preﬁx Attribute Flags TLV as deﬁned in

.
[RFC9085]

The ERLD-MSD is advertised using the Node MSD TLV as deﬁned in

.
[RFC8814]

6.  IANA Considerations

IANA has completed the following actions for this document:

•

Flag 0x20 in the "OSPFv2 Extended Preﬁx TLV Flags" registry has been allocated to the E-Flag
(ELC Flag).

•

Bit 0x40 in the "OSPFv3 Preﬁx Options (8 bits)" registry has been allocated to the E-Flag (ELC
Flag).

7.  Security Considerations

This document speciﬁes the ability to advertise additional node capabilities using OSPF and BGP-
LS. As such, the security considerations as described in
[RFC7770] [RFC8476] [RFC8662] [RFC8814]
,

 are applicable to this document.

[RFC5340] [RFC7684] [RFC7752]

[RFC9085]

, and

,

,

,

,

,

Incorrectly setting the E-Flag during origination, propagation, or redistribution may lead to poor
or no load-balancing of the MPLS traﬃc or to the MPLS traﬃc being discarded on the egress
node.

Incorrectly setting of the ERLD value may lead to poor or no load-balancing of the MPLS traﬃc.

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC5340]

[RFC6790]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Coltun, R. Ferguson, D. Moy, J.
10.17487/RFC5340

,
, July 2008,

,

, and

A. Lindem "OSPF for IPv6" RFC 5340 DOI

,

,

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5340>

.

,

Kompella, K. Drake, J. Amante, S. Henderickx, W.
Entropy Labels in MPLS Forwarding" RFC 6790 DOI 10.17487/RFC6790
November 2012,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6790>

, and

L. Yong "The Use of

,

,

,

,

.

,

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9089

Signaling ELC and ERLD Using OSPF

August 2021

[RFC7684]

[RFC7752]

[RFC7770]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8362]

[RFC8476]

[RFC8662]

[RFC8814]

[RFC9085]

[RFC9088]

,

Psenak, P. Gredler, H. Shakir, R. Henderickx, W. Tantsura, J.
,
"OSPFv2 Preﬁx/Link Attribute Advertisement" RFC 7684 DOI 10.17487/RFC7684
November 2015,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7684>

A. Lindem

, and

,

,

,

,

.

,

,

Gredler, H., Ed. Medved, J. Previdi, S. Farrel, A.
,
Distribution of Link-State and Traﬃc Engineering (TE) Information Using BGP"
, March 2016,
RFC 7752 DOI 10.17487/RFC7752
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
rfc7752>

S. Ray "North-Bound

, and

,
.

,

,

,

,

,
,
Lindem, A., Ed. Shen, N. Vasseur, JP. Aggarwal, R.
OSPF for Advertising Optional Router Capabilities" RFC 7770 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7770

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7770>

, February 2016,

, and
,

S. Shaﬀer "Extensions to

,

,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

,

Lindem, A. Roy, A. Goethals, D. Reddy Vallem, V.
State Advertisement (LSA) Extensibility" RFC 8362 DOI 10.17487/RFC8362
2018,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8362>

, and
,

F. Baker "OSPFv3 Link

,

,

,

.

,

, April

,

Tantsura, J. Chunduri, U. Aldrin, S.
Depth (MSD) Using OSPF" RFC 8476 DOI 10.17487/RFC8476
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8476>

P. Psenak "Signaling Maximum SID
, December 2018,

, and
,

,
,

,

.

,

,

Kini, S. Kompella, K. Sivabalan, S. Litkowski, S. Shakir, R.
"Entropy Label for Source Packet Routing in Networking (SPRING) Tunnels" RFC
,
8662 DOI 10.17487/RFC8662
rfc8662>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, December 2019,

J. Tantsura

, and

,
,

,

,

.

,

,
,
Tantsura, J. Chunduri, U. Talaulikar, K. Mirsky, G.
"Signaling Maximum SID Depth (MSD) Using the Border Gateway Protocol - Link
State" RFC 8814 DOI 10.17487/RFC8814
editor.org/info/rfc8814>

<https://www.rfc-

N. Triantaﬁllis

, August 2020,

, and

,

,

,

.

,

Previdi, S. Talaulikar, K., Ed. Filsﬁls, C. Gredler, H.
Gateway Protocol - Link State (BGP-LS) Extensions for Segment Routing" RFC
,
9085 DOI 10.17487/RFC9085
rfc9085>

,
M. Chen "Border
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, August 2021,

, and

.

,

,

,

,

,
Xu, X. Kini, S. Psenak, P. Filsﬁls, C. Litkowski, S.
Entropy Label Capability and Entropy Readable Label Depth Using IS-IS" RFC
,
9088 DOI 10.17487/RFC9088
rfc9088>

,
M. Bocci "Signaling
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, August 2021,

, and

,

.

8.2.  Informative References

[RFC8660]

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9089

Signaling ELC and ERLD Using OSPF

August 2021

,

R.
Bashandy, A., Ed. Filsﬁls, C., Ed. Previdi, S. Decraene, B. Litkowski, S.
Shakir "Segment Routing with the MPLS Data Plane" RFC 8660 DOI 10.17487/
,
RFC8660

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8660>

, December 2019,

, and

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

,
,
Psenak, P., Ed. Previdi, S., Ed. Filsﬁls, C. Gredler, H. Shakir, R. Henderickx, W.
and
10.17487/RFC8665

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8665>

J. Tantsura "OSPF Extensions for Segment Routing" RFC 8665 DOI

, December 2019,

.

,

,

,

,

,

 and

Psenak, P., Ed.
,
8666 DOI 10.17487/RFC8666
rfc8666>

.

S. Previdi, Ed. "OSPFv3 Extensions for Segment Routing" RFC

,

,

, December 2019,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

[RFC8665]

[RFC8666]

Acknowledgements

The authors would like to thank
Talaulikar Jeﬀ Tantsura Bruno Decraene

 ,

,

,
, and

Yimin Shen George Swallow Acee Lindem Les Ginsberg Ketan

,

,

,

Carlos Pignataro

 for their valuable comments.

Contributors

The following people contributed to the content of this document and should be considered
coauthors:

Gunter Van de Velde (editor)
Nokia
Antwerp
Belgium
Email:

 gunter.van_de_velde@nokia.com

Wim Henderickx
Nokia
Belgium
Email:

 wim.henderickx@nokia.com

Keyur Patel
Arrcus
United States of America
Email:

 keyur@arrcus.com

Authors' Addresses

Xiaohu Xu
Capitalonline
Email:

 xiaohu.xu@capitalonline.net

Sriganesh Kini
Email:

 sriganeshkini@gmail.com

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9089

Signaling ELC and ERLD Using OSPF

August 2021

Peter Psenak
Cisco Systems, Inc.
Eurovea Centre, Central 3
Pribinova Street 10
81109 Bratislava
Slovakia
Email:

 ppsenak@cisco.com

Clarence Filsﬁls
Cisco Systems, Inc.
Brussels
Belgium
Email:

 cﬁlsﬁl@cisco.com

Stephane Litkowski
Cisco Systems, Inc.
La Rigourdiere
Cesson Sevigne
France
Email:

 slitkows@cisco.com

Matthew Bocci
Nokia
740 Waterside Drive
Aztec West Business Park
Bristol
BS32 4UF
United Kingdom
Email:

 matthew.bocci@nokia.com

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

