Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9792
Standards Track
June 2025
2070-1721

R. Chen
ZTE Corporation

D. Zhao
ZTE Corporation

P. Psenak
Cisco Systems

K. Talaulikar
Cisco Systems

L. Gong
China Mobile

RFC 9792
Prefix Flag Extension for OSPFv2 and OSPFv3

Abstract

Each OSPF prefix can be advertised with an 8-bit field to indicate specific properties of that
prefix. However, all the OSPFv3 Prefix Options bits have already been assigned, and only a few
bits remain unassigned in the Flags field of the OSPFv2 Extended Prefix TLV.

This document solves this problem by defining a variable-length Prefix Extended Flags sub-TLV
for OSPF. This sub-TLV is applicable to OSPFv2 and OSPFv3.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9792
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in effect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Chen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9792

Prefix Flag Extension for OSPF

June 2025

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

2.  Variable-Length Prefix Extended Flags Sub-TLV

3.  Backward Compatibility

4.  IANA Considerations

4.1.  OSPFv2

4.1.1.  OSPFv2 Prefix Extended Flags Sub-TLV

4.1.2.  OSPFv2 Prefix Extended Flags Registry

4.2.  OSPFv3

4.2.1.  OSPFv3 Prefix Extended Flags Sub-TLV

4.2.2.  OSPFv3 Prefix Extended Flags Registry

5.  Security Considerations

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

6.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

2

3

3

4

4

4

4

5

5

5

5

6

6

6

6

7

7

Each OSPF prefix can be advertised with an 8-bit field to indicate specific properties of that
prefix. This is done using the OSPFv3 Prefix Options (
Flags field in the OSPFv2 Extended Prefix TLV (
document refers to these 8-bit fields in both OSPFv2 and OSPFv3 as the "existing fixed-size prefix
flags".

Appendix A.4.1.1 of [RFC5340]

Section 2.1 of [RFC7684]

). The rest of this

) and the

However, all the OSPFv3 Prefix Options bits have already been assigned (see the "OSPFv3 Prefix
Options (8 bits)" IANA registry
document, only 5 bits remain unassigned in the Flags field of the OSPFv2 Extended Prefix TLV
(see the "OSPFv2 Extended Prefix TLV Flags" IANA registry

). Also, at the time of publication of this

[IANA-OSPFv2-EPF]

[IANA-OSPFv3-PO]

).

Chen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9792

Prefix Flag Extension for OSPF

June 2025

This document solves the problem of insufficient flag bits for the signaling of prefix properties in
OSPF by defining a variable-length Prefix Extended Flags sub-TLV for OSPFv2 and OSPFv3.

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Variable-Length Prefix Extended Flags Sub-TLV

This document defines a variable-length Prefix Extended Flags sub-TLV for OSPFv2 and OSPFv3.
The sub-TLV specifies the variable-length Prefix Extended Flags field to advertise additional
attributes associated with OSPF prefixes. The advertisement and processing of the existing fixed-
size prefix flags remain unchanged.

The format of the OSPFv2/OSPFv3 Prefix Extended Flags sub-TLV is shown in Figure 1.

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|              Type             |            Length             |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                                                               |
//                 Prefix Extended Flags (Variable)            //
|                                                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 1: Format of OSPFv2/OSPFv3 Prefix Extended Flags Sub-TLV

where:

Type (2 octets):

11 for OSPFv2 and 37 for OSPFv3

Length (2 octets):

Variable, dependent on the included Prefix Extended Flags field. This

indicates the length of the Prefix Extended Flags field in octets. The length
of 4 octets. If the length is not a multiple of 4 octets, the Link State Advertisement (LSA) is
malformed and

 be ignored.

MUST

MUST

 be a multiple

Prefix Extended Flags (Variable):

The extended flag field. This field contains a variable number

of flags, grouped in 4-octet blocks. The bits are numbered starting from bit 0 as the most
significant bit of the first 32-bit block. If the length of the Prefix Extended Flags field exceeds
4 octets, numbering for the additional bits picks up where the previous 4-octet block left off.
For example, the most significant bit in the fifth octet of an 8-octet Prefix Extended Flags field
is referred to as bit 32. Currently, no bits are defined in this document.

Chen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9792

Prefix Flag Extension for OSPF

June 2025

Unassigned bits

MUST

 be set to zero on transmission and

MUST

 be ignored on receipt.

An implementation
Defined prefix flags that are not transmitted due to being beyond the transmitted length
be treated as being set to 0.

 limit the length of the sub-TLV so as to signal the bits that are set to 1.

MUST

MUST

The OSPFv2 Prefix Extended Flags sub-TLV is advertised as a sub-TLV of the OSPFv2 Extended
Prefix TLV defined in
 be allocated from the
. Additional OSPFv2 prefix flags
unused bits in the Flags field of the OSPFv2 Extended Prefix TLV prior to allocating flags in the
OSPFv2 Prefix Extended Flags sub-TLV.

[RFC7684]

SHOULD

The OSPFv3 Prefix Extended Flags sub-TLV is advertised as a sub-TLV of the following OSPFv3
TLVs:

•

Inter-Area-Prefix TLV (

Section 3.4 of [RFC8362]

)

•

External-Prefix TLV (

Section 3.6 of [RFC8362]

)

•

Intra-Area-Prefix TLV (

Section 3.7 of [RFC8362]

)

•

SRv6 Locator TLV

[RFC9513]

When multiple instances of the OSPFv2/OSPFv3 Prefix Extended Flags sub-TLVs are received
within the same TLV, an implementation
MUST
limiting.

 ignore all subsequent instances of the sub-TLV. Errors

 use only the first occurrence of the sub-TLV and

 be logged subject to rate

SHOULD

MUST

3.  Backward Compatibility

The OSPFv2/OSPFv3 Prefix Extended Flags sub-TLV does not introduce any backward
compatibility issues. An implementation that does not recognize the OSPFv2/OSPFv3 Prefix
Extended Flags sub-TLV would ignore the sub-TLV as per normal TLV processing operations
(refer to

Section 2.3.2 of [RFC3630]

Section 6.3 of [RFC8362]

 and

).

4.  IANA Considerations

4.1.  OSPFv2

4.1.1.  OSPFv2 Prefix Extended Flags Sub-TLV

IANA has allocated the following codepoint in the "OSPFv2 Extended Prefix TLV Sub-TLVs"
registry:

Value Description

Reference

11

OSPFv2 Prefix Extended Flags

RFC 9792

Table 1

Chen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9792

Prefix Flag Extension for OSPF

June 2025

4.1.2.  OSPFv2 Prefix Extended Flags Registry

IANA has created the "OSPFv2 Prefix Extended Flags" registry within the "Open Shortest Path
First v2 (OSPFv2) Parameters" registry group. The registry defines the bits in the Prefix Extended
Flags field in the OSPFv2 Prefix Extended Flags sub-TLV as specified in Section 2. The bits are to
be allocated via IETF Review

. Each bit definition will include:

[RFC8126]

•

Bit number (counting from bit 0 as the most significant bit of the first block)

•

Description

•

Reference

No bits are currently defined. Bits 0-31 are to be initially marked as "Unassigned". The flags
defined in this document may use either a single bit or multiple bits to represent a state, as
determined by the specific requirements of the document defining them. IANA will add
subsequent blocks of 32 bits upon exhaustion of the preceding 32-bit block.

4.2.  OSPFv3

4.2.1.  OSPFv3 Prefix Extended Flags Sub-TLV

IANA has allocated the following codepoint in the "OSPFv3 Extended-LSA Sub-TLVs" registry:

Value Description

L2BM Reference

37

OSPFv3 Prefix Extended Flags

X

RFC 9792

Table 2

4.2.2.  OSPFv3 Prefix Extended Flags Registry

IANA has created the "OSPFv3 Prefix Extended Flags" registry within the "Open Shortest Path
First v3 (OSPFv3) Parameters" registry group. The registry defines the bits in the Prefix Extended
Flags field in the OSPFv2 Prefix Extended Flags sub-TLV as specified in Section 2. The bits are to
be allocated via IETF Review

. Each bit definition will include:

[RFC8126]

•

Bit number (counting from bit 0 as the most significant bit of the first block)

•

Description

•

Reference

No bits are currently defined. Bits 0-31 are to be initially marked as "Unassigned". The flags
defined in this document may use either a single bit or multiple bits to represent a state, as
determined by the specific requirements of the document defining them. IANA will add
subsequent blocks of 32 bits upon exhaustion of the preceding 32-bit block.

Chen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9792

Prefix Flag Extension for OSPF

June 2025

5.  Security Considerations

Procedures and protocol extensions defined in this document do not affect the OSPFv2 or
OSPFv3 security models. See
considerations and

 for a discussion of OSPFv3 security.

 for a discussion of OSPFv2 TLV-encoding

Section 7 of [RFC8362]

Section 5 of [RFC7684]

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC3630]

[RFC5340]

[RFC7684]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8362]

[RFC9513]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

D. Yeung "Traffic Engineering (TE) Extensions to
Katz, D. Kompella, K.
, and
OSPF Version 2" RFC 3630 DOI 10.17487/RFC3630
<https://
,
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3630>

, September 2003,

,

.

Coltun, R. Ferguson, D. Moy, J.
10.17487/RFC5340

,
, July 2008,

,

, and

A. Lindem "OSPF for IPv6" RFC 5340 DOI

,

,

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5340>

.

,

Psenak, P. Gredler, H. Shakir, R. Henderickx, W. Tantsura, J.
"OSPFv2 Prefix/Link Attribute Advertisement" RFC 7684 DOI 10.17487/RFC7684
,
November 2015,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7684>

A. Lindem

, and

,

,

,

,

.

,

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

, June

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Lindem, A. Roy, A. Goethals, D. Reddy Vallem, V.
State Advertisement (LSA) Extensibility" RFC 8362 DOI 10.17487/RFC8362
2018,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8362>

, and
,

F. Baker "OSPFv3 Link

,

,

,

,

.

, April

,

,

Li, Z. Hu, Z. Talaulikar, K., Ed.
Routing over IPv6 (SRv6)" RFC 9513 DOI 10.17487/RFC9513
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9513>

P. Psenak "OSPFv3 Extensions for Segment
,

, December 2023,

, and

,

.

,

6.2.  Informative References

[IANA-OSPFv2-EPF]

IANA "OSPFv2 Extended Prefix TLV Flags" <https://www.iana.org/

,

,

assignments/ospfv2-parameters>

.

Chen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9792

Prefix Flag Extension for OSPF

June 2025

[IANA-OSPFv3-PO]

IANA "OSPFv3 Prefix Options (8 bits)" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/

,

,
ospfv3-parameters>

.

Acknowledgements

The authors would like to thank
for their suggestions and comments.

Shraddha Hegde Changwang Lin Tom Petch

,

,

, and many others

Acee Lindem
The authors would also like to thank
OSPF documents and for editorial improvements.

 for aligning the terminology with existing

Authors' Addresses

Ran Chen
ZTE Corporation
Nanjing
China
Email:

chen.ran@zte.com.cn

Detao Zhao
ZTE Corporation
Nanjing
China
Email:

zhao.detao@zte.com.cn

Peter Psenak
Cisco Systems
Apollo Business Center
Mlynske nivy 43
821 09 Bratislava
Slovakia
Email:

ppsenak@cisco.com

Ketan Talaulikar
Cisco Systems
India
Email:

ketant.ietf@gmail.com

Liyan Gong
China Mobile
China
Email:

gongliyan@chinamobile.com

Chen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

