Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9780
8562
Standards Track
May 2025
2070-1721
G. Mirsky
Ericsson

G. Mishra
Verizon Inc.

D. Eastlake 3rd
Independent

RFC 9780
Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD) for
Multipoint Networks over Point-to-Multipoint MPLS
Label Switched Paths (LSPs)

Abstract

This document describes procedures for using Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD) for
multipoint networks to detect data plane failures in point-to-multipoint MPLS Label Switched
Paths (LSPs) and Segment Routing (SR) point-to-multipoint policies with an SR over MPLS (SR-
MPLS) data plane.

Furthermore, this document updates RFC 8562 by recommending the use of an IPv6 address
from the Dummy IPv6 Prefix address block 100:0:0:1::/64 and discouraging the use of an IPv4
loopback address mapped to IPv6.

In addition, this document describes the applicability of LSP Ping (as an in-band solution) and
the control plane (as an out-of-band solution) to bootstrap a BFD session. The document also
describes the behavior of the active tail for head notification.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9780
.

Mirsky, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9780

Multipoint BFD over P2MP MPLS LSP

May 2025

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in effect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Conventions Used in This Document

2.1.  Terminology

2.2.  Requirements Language

3.  Multipoint BFD Encapsulation

3.1.  IP Encapsulation of Multipoint BFD

3.2.  Non-IP Encapsulation of Multipoint BFD

4.  Bootstrapping Multipoint BFD

4.1.  LSP Ping

4.2.  Control Plane

5.  Operation of Multipoint BFD with Active Tail over P2MP MPLS LSP

6.  Security Considerations

7.  IANA Considerations

7.1.  IPv6 Special-Purpose Address

7.2.  MPLS Generalized Associated Channel (G-ACh) Type

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

8.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

3

3

3

4

4

4

5

6

6

7

7

8

9

9

9

9

9

11

11

Mirsky, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9780

Multipoint BFD over P2MP MPLS LSP

May 2025

Authors' Addresses

11

1.  Introduction

[RFC8562]
 defines a method of using Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD)
monitor and detect failures between the sender (head) and one or more receivers (tails) in
multipoint or multicast networks.

[RFC5880]

 to

 added two BFD session types: MultipointHead and MultipointTail. Throughout this

[RFC8562]
document, MultipointHead and MultipointTail refer to the value to which the bfd.SessionType is
set on a BFD endpoint.

This document describes procedures for using such modes of the BFD protocol to detect data
plane failures in point-to-multipoint (P2MP) MPLS Label Switched Paths (LSPs) and Segment
Routing (SR) point-to-multipoint policies with an SR over MPLS (SR-MPLS) data plane.

The document also describes the applicability of LSP Ping (an in-band solution) and out-of-band
solutions to bootstrap a BFD session in this environment.

Section 2.5.3 of [RFC4291]

Historically, an address in the IPv6-mapped IPv4 loopback address block ::ffff:127.0.0.1/128 was
mandated, although functionally, an IPv6 address from that address block is not analogous to its
IPv4 counterpart. Furthermore, using the loopback address as the destination address, even for
an inner IP encapsulation of a tunneled packet, violates
. Hence, IANA
has allocated 100:0:0:1::/64 as a new Dummy IPv6 Prefix (Section 7.1) for destination IPv6
addresses used for IP/UDP encapsulation of management, control, and OAM (Operations,
Administration, and Maintenance) packets. A source-only IPv6 dummy address is used as the
destination to generate an exception and a reply message to the request message received. This
document starts the transition to using the IPv6 addresses from the Dummy IPv6 Prefix address
block 100:0:0:1::/64 as the IPv6 destination address in the IP/UDP encapsulation of active OAM
over the MPLS data plane. Thus, this document updates
an IPv6 address from the Dummy IPv6 Prefix address block 100:0:0:1::/64 (Section 7.1) while
acknowledging that an address from the ::ffff:127.0.0.1/128 address block might be used by
existing implementations. This document discourages the use of an address in the IPv6-mapped
IPv4 loopback address block.

 by recommending the use of

[RFC8562]

This document also describes the behavior of the active tail for head notification.

2.  Conventions Used in This Document

2.1.  Terminology

ACH:

Associated Channel Header

BFD:

Bidirectional Forwarding Detection

Mirsky, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9780

Multipoint BFD over P2MP MPLS LSP

May 2025

GAL:

G-ACh Label

G-ACh:

Generic Associated Channel

LSP:

Label Switched Path

LSR:

Label Switching Router

MPLS:

Multiprotocol Label Switching

P2MP:

Point-to-Multipoint

PW:

Pseudowire (PW)

SR:

Segment Routing

SR-MPLS:

SR over MPLS

2.2.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Multipoint BFD Encapsulation

[RFC8562]
 uses BFD in Demand mode from the very start of a point-to-multipoint (P2MP) BFD
session. Because the head doesn't receive any BFD Control packets from a tail, the head of the
P2MP BFD session transmits all BFD Control packets with the value of the Your Discriminator
field set to zero. As a result, a tail cannot demultiplex BFD sessions using Your Discriminator, as
defined in
source IP address, My Discriminator, and the identity of the multipoint tree from which the BFD
Control packet was received. If the BFD Control packet is encapsulated in IP/UDP, then the source
IP address
Section
MUST
5.7 of [RFC8562]

 be used to demultiplex the received BFD Control packet as described in
. The non-IP encapsulation case is described in Section 3.2.

. To demultiplex BFD sessions,

 requires that the tail use the

[RFC8562]

[RFC5880]

3.1.  IP Encapsulation of Multipoint BFD

[RFC8562]
document updates
address as follows:

 defines IP/UDP encapsulation for multipoint BFD over P2MP MPLS LSP. This

Section 5.8 of [RFC8562]

 regarding the selection of the IPv6 destination

•

The sender of an MPLS echo request
SHOULD
address block 100:0:0:1::/64 (see Section 7.1).

 use an address from the Dummy IPv6 Prefix

•

The sender of an MPLS echo request
7f00/104 address block.

MAY

 select the IPv6 destination address from the ::ffff:

Mirsky, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9780

Multipoint BFD over P2MP MPLS LSP

May 2025

 lists several advantages of generating the entropy value by an ingress

Section 1.2 of [RFC6790]
Label Switching Router (LSR) compared to when a transit LSR infers entropy using the
information in the MPLS label stack or payload. This specification further clarifies the following
if multiple alternative paths for the given P2MP LSP Forwarding Equivalence Class (FEC) exist:

•

The MultipointHead
SHOULD
to exercise those particular alternative paths; or

 use the Entropy Label

[RFC6790]

 used for LSP Ping

[RFC8029]

•

The MultipointHead
alternate paths.

MAY

 use the UDP port number to possibly exercise those particular

3.2.  Non-IP Encapsulation of Multipoint BFD

In some environments, the overhead of extra IP/UDP encapsulations may be considered
burdensome, which makes the use of more compact Generic Associated Channel (G-ACh)
[RFC5586]
Control packet in a P2MP BFD session may fail because of a problem related to neither the MPLS
label stack nor BFD. Avoiding unnecessary encapsulation of P2MP BFD over an MPLS LSP
improves the accuracy of the correlation of the detected failure and defect in MPLS LSP.

 encapsulation attractive. Also, the validation of the IP/UDP encapsulation of a BFD

[RFC5586]

 use the
Non-IP encapsulation for multipoint BFD over P2MP MPLS LSP (shown in Figure 1)
G-ACh Label (GAL)
 at the bottom of the label stack followed by an Associated Channel
Header (ACH). If a BFD Control packet in PW-ACH encapsulation (without IP/UDP Headers) is to
be used in ACH, an implementation would not be able to verify the identity of the
MultipointHead and, as a result, will not properly demultiplex BFD packets. Hence, a new
channel type value is needed. The Channel Type field in ACH
Session (0x0013) (see Section 7.2). To provide the identity of the MultipointHead for the
particular multipoint BFD session, a Source Address TLV, as defined in
MUST
document.

,
 immediately follow a BFD Control packet. The use of other TLVs is outside the scope of this

 be set to Multipoint BFD

Section 4.1 of [RFC7212]

MUST

MUST

Mirsky, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9780

Multipoint BFD over P2MP MPLS LSP

May 2025

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|               LSP Label               |  TC |S|       TTL     |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                  GAL                  |  TC |1|       TTL     |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|0 0 0 1|Version|     Flags     |      Channel Type = 0x0013    |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
~                        BFD Control Packet                     ~
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|     Type=0    |    Reserved   |            Length             |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|           Reserved            |         Address Family        |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
~                            Address                            ~
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 1: Non-IP Encapsulation for Multipoint BFD over a Multicast MPLS LSP

The fields in Figure 1 are interpreted as follows:

•

The top three four-octet words are defined in

[RFC5586]

.

•

The BFD Control Packet field is defined in

[RFC5880]

.

•

All the remaining fields are defined in

Section 4.1 of [RFC7212]

.

4.  Bootstrapping Multipoint BFD

4.1.  LSP Ping

LSP Ping is the part of the on-demand OAM toolset used to detect and localize defects in the data
plane and verify the control plane against the data plane by ensuring that the LSP is mapped to
the same FEC at both egress and ingress endpoints.

,

 and the BFD Discriminator TLV

[RFC6425] MAY
 include the Target FEC Stack TLV

. For the case of P2MP SR policy with an SR-MPLS data plane, an implementation of

 be used to bootstrap MultipointTail. If LSP Ping is used, it
[RFC8029]
. For

LSP Ping, as defined in
MUST
the case of P2MP MPLS LSP, the Target FEC Stack TLV
of [RFC6425]
this specification
 for the LSP Ping to bootstrap the MultipointTail of
Reply Mode field to "Do not reply"
the P2MP BFD session is
. Indeed, because BFD over a multipoint network uses
BFD Demand mode, the MPLS echo reply from a tail has no useful information to convey to the
head, unlike in the case of BFD over a P2P MPLS LSP
LSP Ping that includes the BFD Discriminator TLV

 follow the procedures defined in
[RFC8029]

. A MultipointTail that receives an

 use sub-TLVs defined in

. Setting the value of the

 do the following:

RECOMMENDED

Section 3.1

[RFC5884]

[RFC5884]

[RFC8287]

MUST

MUST

MUST

•

validate the LSP Ping;

•

associate the received BFD Discriminator value with the P2MP LSP;

Mirsky, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9780

Multipoint BFD over P2MP MPLS LSP

May 2025

•

create a P2MP BFD session and set bfd.SessionType = MultipointTail as described in
[RFC8562]

; and

•

use the source IP address of the LSP Ping, the value of BFD Discriminator from the BFD
Discriminator TLV, and the identity of the P2MP LSP to properly demultiplex BFD sessions.

Besides bootstrapping a BFD session over a P2MP LSP, LSP Ping
control plane against the data plane periodically by checking that the P2MP LSP is mapped to the
same FEC at the MultipointHead and all active MultipointTails. The rate of generation of these
 be significantly less than the rate of generation of the
LSP Ping echo request messages
BFD Control packets because LSP Ping requires more processing to validate the consistency
between the data plane and the control plane. An implementation
options to control the rate of generation of the periodic LSP Ping echo request messages.

 provide configuration

 be used to verify the

SHOULD

SHOULD

MAY

4.2.  Control Plane

The BFD Discriminator attribute
following the format and procedures given in

MAY

Section 3.1.6 of [RFC9026]
.

 be used to bootstrap a multipoint BFD session on a tail,

5.  Operation of Multipoint BFD with Active Tail over P2MP
MPLS LSP

[RFC8562]

[RFC8563]

[RFC8562]
 defines how BFD Demand mode can be used in multipoint networks. When applied in
MPLS, the procedures specified in
 allow an egress LSR to detect a failure in the part of
the P2MP MPLS LSP from the ingress LSR to that egress LSR. The ingress LSR is not aware of the
state of the P2MP LSP.
, defines the behavior
, using mechanisms defined in
of an active tail. An active tail might notify the head of the detected failure and respond to a poll
sequence initiated by the head. The first method, referred to as "Head Notification without
Polling", is mentioned in
in
Analysis of other methods for a head to learn of the state of the P2MP MPLS LSP is outside the
scope of this document.

) and is the simplest of the methods described
. The use of this method in BFD over P2MP MPLS LSP is discussed in this document.

Section 5.2.1 of [RFC8563]

[RFC8563]

[RFC8562]

As specified in

[RFC8563]

, BFD variables

MUST

 be as follows for the active tail mode:

•

On an ingress LSR:

bfd.SessionType is MultipointHead.
◦
◦
bfd.RequiredMinRxInterval is nonzero, allowing egress LSRs to send BFD Control packets.

•

On an egress LSR:

bfd.SessionType is MultipointTail.
◦
◦
bfd.SilentTail is set to zero.

Mirsky, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9780

Multipoint BFD over P2MP MPLS LSP

May 2025

Section 5.2.1 of [RFC8563]
 notes that "the tail sends unsolicited BFD packets in response to the
detection of a multipoint path failure" but does not provide specifics about the information in
the packets or the frequency of transmissions. The procedure for an active tail with unsolicited
notifications for P2MP MPLS LSP is defined below.

Upon detecting the failure of the P2MP MPLS LSP, an egress LSR sends a BFD Control packet with
the following settings:

•

The Poll (P) bit is set.

•

The Status (Sta) field is set to the Down value.

•

The Diagnostic (Diag) field is set to the Control Detection Time Expired value.

•

The value of the Your Discriminator field is set to the value the egress LSR has been using to
demultiplex that BFD multipoint session.

MAY

The BFD Control packet
ingress LSR and the UDP destination port number set to 4784 per
encapsulation is used, then a BFD Control packet is encapsulated using PW-ACH encapsulation
(without IP/UDP Headers) with Channel Type 0x0007

 be encapsulated in IP/UDP with the destination IP address of the

[RFC5885]
.

[RFC5883]

. If non-IP

The BFD Control packets are transmitted at the rate of one per second until either 1) the egress
LSA receives a control packet from the ingress LSR that is valid for this BFD session and has the
Final (F) bit set or 2) the defect condition clears. However, to improve the likelihood of notifying
the ingress LSR of the failure of the P2MP MPLS LSP, the egress LSR
three BFD Control packets (as defined above) in short succession. The actual transmission of the
periodic BFD Control packet
the interval
MUST
congestion on the ingress LSR's data and control planes.

 be reduced by a random value of 0 to 25%, to reduce the possibility of

 be jittered by up to 25% within one-second intervals. Thus,

 initially transmit

SHOULD

MUST

As described above, an ingress LSR that has received the BFD Control packet sends the unicast IP/
UDP encapsulated BFD Control packet with the Final (F) bit set to the egress LSR. In some
scenarios (e.g., when a P2MP LSP is broken close to its root and the number of egress LSRs is
significantly large), the root might receive a large number of notifications. The notifications
from leaves to the root will not use resources allocated for the monitored multicast flow and, as
a result, will not congest that particular flow, although they may negatively affect other flows.
However, the control plane of the ingress LSR might be congested by the BFD Control packets
transmitted by egress LSRs and the process of generating unicast BFD Control packets, as noted
above. To mitigate that, a BFD implementation that supports this specification is
RECOMMENDED
to use a rate limiter of received BFD Control packets passed to the ingress LSR's control plane for
processing.

6.  Security Considerations

This document does not introduce new security considerations but inherits all security
,
considerations from

[RFC5880] [RFC5884] [RFC7726] [RFC8562] [RFC8029]

, and

,

,

,

[RFC6425]
.

Mirsky, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9780

Multipoint BFD over P2MP MPLS LSP

May 2025

MUST

 follow the requirements listed in

Section 4.1 of [RFC4687]
Also, BFD for P2MP MPLS LSPs
to avoid congestion in the control plane or the data plane caused by the rate of generating BFD
Control packets. An operator
BFD when selecting the interval at which the MultipointHead will transmit BFD Control packets.
The operator
using IP/UDP encapsulation, which adds up to 28 octets (more than 50% of the BFD Control
packet length) compared to G-ACh encapsulation.

 consider the size of the packet the MultipointHead transmits periodically as

 consider the amount of extra traffic generated by P2MP

SHOULD

MAY

7.  IANA Considerations

7.1.  IPv6 Special-Purpose Address

IANA has allocated the following in the "IANA IPv6 Special-Purpose Address Registry"
IPv6-REG]
:

[IANA-

100:0:0:1::/64

Dummy IPv6 Prefix

Address Block:
Name:
RFC 9780
RFC:
Allocation Date:
Termination Date:
Source:
Destination:
Forwardable:
Globally Reachable:
Reserved-by-Protocol:

False

False

True

2025-04
N/A

False

False

7.2.  MPLS Generalized Associated Channel (G-ACh) Type

IANA has allocated the following value in the "MPLS Generalized Associated Channel (G-ACh)
Types" registry

[IANA-G-ACh-TYPES]
.

Value

Description

Reference

0x0013 Multipoint BFD Session

RFC 9780

Table 1: Multipoint BFD Session G-ACh Type

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Mirsky, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9780

Multipoint BFD over P2MP MPLS LSP

May 2025

[RFC5586]

[RFC5880]

[RFC5883]

[RFC5884]

[RFC5885]

[RFC6425]

[RFC6790]

[RFC7212]

[RFC7726]

[RFC8029]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8287]

,

Bocci, M., Ed. Vigoureux, M., Ed.
Channel" RFC 5586 DOI 10.17487/RFC5586
editor.org/info/rfc5586>

, and

,

,

.

S. Bryant, Ed. "MPLS Generic Associated

,

, June 2009,

<https://www.rfc-

Katz, D.
 and
10.17487/RFC5880

D. Ward "Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD)" RFC 5880 DOI

,

,

,

, June 2010,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5880>

.

 and

Katz, D.
Paths" RFC 5883 DOI 10.17487/RFC5883
,
info/rfc5883>

,

.

D. Ward "Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD) for Multihop

,

, June 2010,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

,

Aggarwal, R. Kompella, K. Nadeau, T.
Forwarding Detection (BFD) for MPLS Label Switched Paths (LSPs)" RFC 5884
DOI 10.17487/RFC5884
.

G. Swallow "Bidirectional
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5884>

, June 2010,

, and

,

,

,

 and

Nadeau, T., Ed.
for the Pseudowire Virtual Circuit Connectivity Verification (VCCV)" RFC 5885
DOI 10.17487/RFC5885

C. Pignataro, Ed. "Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD)
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5885>

, June 2010,

,

,

.

,

Saxena, S., Ed. Swallow, G. Ali, Z. Farrel, A. Yasukawa, S.
"Detecting Data-Plane Failures in Point-to-Multipoint MPLS - Extensions to LSP
Ping" RFC 6425 DOI 10.17487/RFC6425
editor.org/info/rfc6425>

, November 2011,

<https://www.rfc-

T. Nadeau

, and

,

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

Kompella, K. Drake, J. Amante, S. Henderickx, W.
Entropy Labels in MPLS Forwarding" RFC 6790 DOI 10.17487/RFC6790
November 2012,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6790>

, and

L. Yong "The Use of

.

,

,

,

,

,

Frost, D. Bryant, S.
,
Advertisement Protocol" RFC 7212 DOI 10.17487/RFC7212
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7212>

M. Bocci "MPLS Generic Associated Channel (G-ACh)
,

, June 2014,

, and

<https://

,

,

.

,

Govindan, V. Rajaraman, K. Mirsky, G. Akiya, N.
Procedures for Establishing BFD Sessions for MPLS Label Switched Paths
(LSPs)" RFC 7726 DOI 10.17487/RFC7726
<https://www.rfc-
editor.org/info/rfc7726>

, January 2016,

S. Aldrin "Clarifying

, and

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

Kompella, K. Swallow, G. Pignataro, C., Ed. Kumar, N. Aldrin, S.
,
"Detecting Multiprotocol Label Switched (MPLS) Data-Plane Failures" RFC 8029
DOI 10.17487/RFC8029
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8029>

M. Chen
, and
,

, March 2017,

,

,

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

,

,

Kumar, N., Ed. Pignataro, C., Ed. Swallow, G. Akiya, N. Kini, S.
"Label Switched Path (LSP) Ping/Traceroute for Segment Routing (SR) IGP-Prefix
and IGP-Adjacency Segment Identifiers (SIDs) with MPLS Data Planes" RFC 8287
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC8287
rfc8287>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, December 2017,

M. Chen

, and

,

,

,

.

,

Mirsky, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9780

Multipoint BFD over P2MP MPLS LSP

May 2025

[RFC8562]

[RFC8563]

[RFC9026]

,

Katz, D. Ward, D. Pallagatti, S., Ed.
,
Forwarding Detection (BFD) for Multipoint Networks" RFC 8562 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8562

G. Mirsky, Ed. "Bidirectional
,
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8562>

, April 2019,

, and

,

.

,

Katz, D. Ward, D. Pallagatti, S., Ed.
,
Forwarding Detection (BFD) Multipoint Active Tails" RFC 8563 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8563

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8563>

G. Mirsky, Ed. "Bidirectional
,

, April 2019,

, and

,
.

,

Morin, T., Ed. Kebler, R., Ed.
,
Failover" RFC 9026 DOI 10.17487/RFC9026
editor.org/info/rfc9026>

, and

,

,

.

G. Mirsky, Ed. "Multicast VPN Fast Upstream

,

, April 2021,

<https://www.rfc-

8.2.  Informative References

[IANA-G-ACh-TYPES]

IANA "MPLS Generalized Associated Channel (G-ACh) Types" <https://

,

,

www.iana.org/assignments/g-ach-parameters>

.

[IANA-IPv6-REG]

,

IANA "IANA IPv6 Special-Purpose Address Registry" <https://www.iana.org/
.

assignments/iana-ipv6-special-registry>

,

[RFC4291]

[RFC4687]

Hinden, R.
10.17487/RFC4291

S. Deering "IP Version 6 Addressing Architecture" RFC 4291 DOI

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4291>
.

,
, February 2006,

 and

,

,

Yasukawa, S. Farrel, A. King, D.
(OAM) Requirements for Point-to-Multipoint MPLS Networks" RFC 4687 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4687>
10.17487/RFC4687

T. Nadeau "Operations and Management

, September 2006,

, and

,

,

,

,

.

Acknowledgements

The authors sincerely appreciate the comments received from
Shraddha Hegde
Pignataro
.

. The authors also appreciate the thought-stimulating questions from

Andrew Malis Italo Busi

,

, and
Carlos

Authors' Addresses

Greg Mirsky
Ericsson
Email:

gregimirsky@gmail.com

Gyan Mishra
Verizon Inc.
Email:

gyan.s.mishra@verizon.com

Mirsky, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9780

Multipoint BFD over P2MP MPLS LSP

May 2025

Donald Eastlake 3rd
Independent
2386 Panoramic Circle
Apopka FL 32703
,
United States of America
Email:

d3e3e3@gmail.com

Mirsky, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

