Stream:
RFC:
Obsoletes:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9632
9092
Standards Track
August 2024
2070-1721
R. Bush
IIJ Research & Arrcus

M. Candela
NTT

W. Kumari
Google

R. Housley
Vigil Security

RFC 9632
Finding and Using Geofeed Data

Abstract

This document specifies how to augment the Routing Policy Specification Language (RPSL)
inetnum: class to refer specifically to geofeed comma-separated values (CSV) data files and
describes an optional scheme that uses the Resource Public Key Infrastructure (RPKI) to
authenticate the geofeed data files. This document obsoletes RFC 9092.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9632
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Bush, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9632

Finding and Using Geofeed Data

August 2024

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

2.  Geofeed Files

3.  inetnum: Class

4.  Fetching Geofeed Data

5.  Authenticating Geofeed Data (Optional)

6.  Operational Considerations

7.  Privacy Considerations

8.  Implementation Status

9.  Security Considerations

10. IANA Considerations

11. References

11.1.  Normative References

11.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Example

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

2

3

3

4

5

6

9

10

10

10

11

11

11

12

14

22

23

Providers of Internet content and other services may wish to customize those services based on
the geographic location of the user of the service. This is often done using the source IP address
used to contact the service, which may not point to a user; see
particular. Also, administrators of infrastructure and other services might wish to publish the
locale of said infrastructure or services. infrastructure and other services might wish to publish
the locale of their services.
with IP addresses, but it does not specify how to find the relevant geofeed data given an IP
address.

 defines geofeed, a syntax to associate geographic locales

Section 14 of [RFC6269]

[RFC8805]

 in

Bush, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9632

Finding and Using Geofeed Data

August 2024

This document specifies how to augment the Routing Policy Specification Language (RPSL)
[RFC2725]
 inetnum: class to refer specifically to geofeed data files and how to prudently use
them. In all places inetnum: is used, inet6num: should also be assumed

[RFC4012]
.

The reader may find
descriptions of the inetnum: database classes.

[INETNUM]

 and

[INET6NUM]

 informative, and certainly more verbose,

An optional utterly awesome but slightly complex means for authenticating geofeed data is also
defined in Section 5.

This document obsoletes

[RFC9092]

. Changes from

[RFC9092]

 include the following:

•

RIPE has implemented the geofeed: attribute.

•

This document allows, but discourages, an inetnum: to have both a geofeed remarks:
attribute and a geofeed: attribute.

•

The Authentication section (Section 5) has been rewritten to be more formal.

•

Geofeed files are only UTF-8 CSV.

•

This document stresses that authenticating geofeed data is optional.

•

IP Address Delegation extensions must not use "inherit".

•

If geofeed data are present, geographic location hints in other data should be ignored.

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Geofeed Files

Geofeed files are described in
"owner" to associate those IP addresses to geographic locales.

[RFC8805]

. They provide a facility for an IP address resource

[RFC8805]

Per
HTML, richtext, or other formats.

, geofeed files consist of comma-separated values (CSV) in UTF-8 text format, not

Content providers and other parties who wish to locate an IP address to a geographic locale need
to find the relevant geofeed data. In Section 3, this document specifies how to find the relevant
geofeed

 file given an IP address.

[RFC8805]

Geofeed data for large providers with significant horizontal scale and high granularity can be
quite large. The size of a file can be even larger if an unsigned geofeed file combines data for
many prefixes, if dual IPv4/IPv6 spaces are represented, etc.

Geofeed data do have privacy considerations (see Section 7); this process makes bulk access to
those data easier.

Bush, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9632

Finding and Using Geofeed Data

August 2024

This document also suggests an optional signature to strongly authenticate the data in the
geofeed files.

3.  inetnum: Class

The original RPSL specifications starting with
documents were written by the RIPE community. The IETF standardized RPSL in
[RFC4012]
Registry (RIR) community, mostly by RIPE
change control of the RPSL effectively lies in the operator community.

. Since then, it has been modified and extensively enhanced in the Regional Internet
. At the time of publishing this document,

, and a trail of subsequent
[RFC2622]

[RIPE81] [RIPE181]
,

[RIPE-DB]

 and

The inetnum: database class is specified by the RPSL, as well as Routing Policy System Security
[RFC2725]
of these objects describes an IP address range and its attributes. The inetnum: objects form a
hierarchy ordered on the address space.

, which are used by the Regional Internet Registries (RIRs). Each

 and RPSLng

[RFC4012]

Ideally, the RPSL would be augmented to define a new RPSL geofeed: attribute in the inetnum:
class. Absent implementation of the geofeed: attribute in a particular RIR database, this
document defines the syntax of a Geofeed remarks: attribute, which contains an HTTPS URL of a
geofeed file. The format of the inetnum: geofeed remarks: attribute
"remarks: Geofeed ", where the token "Geofeed "
will vary, but it

 be as in this example,
 be case sensitive, followed by a URL that

 refer only to a single geofeed

[RFC8805]

MUST

MUST

MUST

 file.

    inetnum: 192.0.2.0/24 # example
    remarks: Geofeed https://example.com/geofeed

While we leave global agreement of RPSL modification to the relevant parties, we specify that a
proper geofeed: attribute in the inetnum: class
single URL that will vary, but it

 be followed by a
 file.

 refer only to a single geofeed

MUST
[RFC8805]

 be "geofeed:" and

MUST

MUST

    inetnum: 192.0.2.0/24 # example
    geofeed: https://example.com/geofeed

The URL uses HTTPS, so the WebPKI provides authentication, integrity, and confidentiality for
the fetched geofeed file. However, the WebPKI cannot provide authentication of IP address space
assignment. In contrast, the RPKI (see
assignment; see optional authentication in Section 5.

) can be used to authenticate IP space

[RFC6481]

Until all producers of inetnum: objects, i.e., the RIRs, state that they have migrated to supporting
a geofeed: attribute, consumers looking at inetnum: objects to find geofeed URLs
 be able to
consume both the remarks: and geofeed: forms.

MUST

The migration not only implies that the RIRs support the geofeed: attribute, but that all
registrants have migrated any inetnum: objects from remarks: to geofeed: attributes.

Bush, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9632

Finding and Using Geofeed Data

August 2024

SHOULD

Any particular inetnum: object
remarks: or a proper geofeed: attribute when it is implemented. As the remarks: form cannot be
formally checked by the RIR, this cannot be formally enforced. A geofeed: attribute is preferred,
of course, if the RIR supports it. If there is more than one type of attribute in the intetnum: object,
the geofeed: attribute

 have, at most, one geofeed reference, whether a

 be used.

MUST

For inetnum: objects covering the same address range, a signed geofeed file
 be preferred
over an unsigned file. If none are signed, or more than one is signed, the (signed) inetnum: with
the most recent last-modified: attribute

 be preferred.

MUST

MUST

If a geofeed file describes multiple disjoint ranges of IP address space, there are likely to be
geofeed references from multiple inetnum: objects. Files with geofeed references from multiple
inetnum: objects are not compatible with the signing procedure in Section 5.

An unsigned, and only an unsigned, geofeed file
and

 contain prefixes from more than one registry.

MAY

MAY

 be referenced by multiple inetnum: objects

When fetching, the most specific inetnum: object with a geofeed reference

MUST

 be used.

It is significant that geofeed data may have finer granularity than the inetnum: that refers to
them. For example, an INETNUM object for an address range P could refer to a geofeed file in
which P has been subdivided into one or more longer prefixes.

4.  Fetching Geofeed Data

This document provides a guideline for how interested parties should fetch and read geofeed
files.

Historically, before
implementor, often without consistent authentication, where data were mostly imported from
email without formal authorization or validation.

, this was done in varied ways, at the discretion of the

[RFC9092]

To minimize the load on RIRs' WHOIS
SHOULD
uses efficient bulk access instead of fetching via brute-force search through the IP space.

 be used for large-scale access to gather inetnum: objects with geofeed references. This

 services, the RIR's FTP

[RFC0959]

[RFC3912]

 services

When reading data from an unsigned geofeed file, one
inetnum: object's address range. This is to avoid importing data about ranges not under the
control of the operator. Note that signed files
inetnum:'s range as mandated in Section 5.

 only contain prefixes within the referring

 ignore data outside the referring

MUST

MUST

If geofeed files are fetched, other location information from the inetnum:

MUST

 be ignored.

Given an address range of interest, the most specific inetnum: object with a geofeed reference
MUST
inetnum: objects:

 be used to fetch the geofeed file. For example, if the fetching party finds the following

Bush, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9632

Finding and Using Geofeed Data

August 2024

    inetnum: 192.0.0.0/22 # example
    remarks: Geofeed https://example.com/geofeed_1

    inetnum: 192.0.2.0/24 # example
    remarks: Geofeed https://example.com/geofeed_2

An application looking for geofeed data for 192.0.2.0/29
192.0.2.0/29 is within the more specific 192.0.2.0/24 inetnum: covering that address range and
that inetnum: does have a geofeed reference.

 ignore data in geofeed_1 because

MUST

Hints in inetnum: objects such as country:, geoloc:, etc., tend to be administrative, and not
deployment specific. Consider large, possibly global, providers with headquarters very far from
most of their deployments. Therefore, if geofeed data are specified, either as a geofeed: attribute
or in a geofeed remarks: attribute, other geographic hints such as country:, geoloc:, DNS geoloc
RRsets, etc., for that address range

 be ignored.

MUST

There is open-source code to traverse the RPSL data across all of the RIRs, collect all geofeed
references, and process them
Operational Considerations described in Section 6, including caching. It produces a single
geofeed file, merging all the geofeed files found. This open-source code can be run daily by a cron
job, and the output file can be directly used.

. It implements the steps above and of all the

[GEOFEED-FINDER]

RIRs are converging on Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP) support, which includes
geofeed data; see

 be used for bulk retrieval of geofeed data.

[RDAP-GEOFEED]

SHOULD NOT

. This

5.  Authenticating Geofeed Data (Optional)

The question arises whether a particular geofeed
the "owner" of the IP address space and is authoritative in some sense. The inetnum: that points
to the geofeed
repositories is weakly authenticated at best. An approach where the RPSL was signed per
[RFC7909]
a fair number of them.

 would be good, except it would have to be deployed by all RPSL registries, and there is

 file provides some assurance. Unfortunately, the RPSL in some

 data set is valid, i.e., is authorized by

[RFC8805]

[RFC8805]

The remainder of this section specifies an optional authenticator for the geofeed data set that
[RFC6488]
.
follows "Signed Object Template for the Resource Public Key Infrastructure (RPKI)"

A single optional authenticator
main body of the file signed by the private key of the relevant RPKI certificate for a covering
address range. The following format bundles the relevant RPKI certificate with a signature over
the geofeed text.

 be appended to a geofeed

 file. It is a digest of the

[RFC8805]

MAY

[RFC3629]

The canonicalization procedure converts the data from their internal character representation to
the UTF-8
 character encoding, and the <CRLF> sequence
end of each line of text. A blank line is represented solely by the <CRLF> sequence. For
robustness, any non-printable characters
blank lines

 be changed by canonicalization. Trailing
 appear at the end of the file. That is, the file must not end with multiple

 be used to denote the

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

MUST

Bush, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9632

Finding and Using Geofeed Data

August 2024

consecutive <CRLF> sequences. Any end-of-file marker used by an operating system is not
considered to be part of the file content. When present, such end-of-file markers
covered by the digital signature.

MUST NOT

 be

If the authenticator is not in the canonical form described above, then the authenticator is
invalid.

[RFC5485]

[RFC5652]

, after file canonicalization, the Cryptographic

 is used to create a detached DER-encoded signature that is then

Borrowing detached signatures from
Message Syntax (CMS)
Section 4 of [RFC4648]
Base64 encoded with padding (as defined in
fewer characters. The same digest algorithm
 be used for calculating the message digest of
MUST
the content being signed, which is the geofeed file, and for calculating the message digest on the
 appear in
SignerInfo SignedAttributes
both the CMS SignedData DigestAlgorithmIdentifiers and the SignerInfo
DigestAlgorithmIdentifier
address range is included in the CMS SignedData certificates field

. The RPKI certificate covering the geofeed inetnum: object's

. The message digest algorithm identifier

) and line wrapped to 72 or

[RFC5652]
.

[RFC8933]

[RFC5652]

MUST

The address range of the signing certificate
not, the authenticator is invalid.

MUST

 cover all prefixes in the signed geofeed file. If

The signing certificate
certificate extension

MUST NOT

 include the Autonomous System Identifier Delegation

[RFC3779]

. If it is present, the authenticator is invalid.

As with many other RPKI signed objects, the IP Address Delegation certificate extension
NOT
authenticator is invalid.

 use the "inherit" capability defined in

MUST
. If "inherit" is used, the

Section 2.2.3.5 of [RFC3779]

An IP Address Delegation extension using "inherit" would complicate processing. The
implementation would have to build the certification path from the end entity to the trust
anchor, then validate the path from the trust anchor to the end entity, and then the parameter
would have to be remembered when the validated public key was used to validate a signature on
a CMS object. Having to remember things from certification path validation for use with CMS
object processing would be quite complex and error-prone. Additionally, the certificates do not
get that much bigger by repeating the information.

An address range A "covers" address range B if the range of B is identical to or a subset of A.
"Address range" is used here because inetnum: objects and RPKI certificates need not align on
Classless Inter-Domain Routing (CIDR)
geofeed file do align.

 prefix boundaries, while those of the lines in a

[RFC4632]

SHOULD

 sign only one geofeed file with each generated private
 generate a new key pair for each new version of a particular geofeed file. The
SHOULD
 generate a new end entity (EE) certificate for each signing of a particular geofeed file.

The Certification Authority (CA)
key and
CA
MUST
An associated EE certificate used in this fashion is termed a "one-time-use" EE certificate (see
Section 3 of [RFC6487]

).

Bush, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9632

Finding and Using Geofeed Data

August 2024

Identifying the private key associated with the certificate and getting the department that
controls the private key (which might be stored in a Hardware Security Module (HSM)) to
generate the CMS signature is left as an exercise for the implementor. On the other hand,
verifying the signature has no similar complexity; the certificate, which is validated in the public
RPKI, contains the needed public key. The RPKI trust anchors for the RIRs are expected to already
be available to the party performing signature validation. Validation of the CMS signature over
the geofeed file involves:

1.

Obtaining the signer's certificate from the CMS SignedData CertificateSet
certificate SubjectKeyIdentifier extension
the CMS SignerInfo SignerIdentifier
 fail.
validation

[RFC5280] MUST

[RFC5652]

MUST

. If the key identifiers do not match, then

[RFC5652]

. The

 match the SubjectKeyIdentifier in

2.

Validating the signer's certificate
manifest and that all resources are covered by the RPKI certificate.

 ensure that it is part of the current

MUST

[RFC9286]

3.

Constructing the certification path for the signer's certificate. All of the needed certificates
 be
are expected to be readily available in the RPKI repository. The certification path
valid according to the validation algorithm in
in
 associated with the IP Address Delegation certificate extension and the
Autonomous System Identifier Delegation certificate extension. If certification path
validation is unsuccessful, then validation

 and the additional checks specified

[RFC3779]

[RFC5280]

MUST

MUST

 fail.

4.

Validating the CMS SignedData as specified in
validated signer's certificate. If the signature validation is unsuccessful, then validation
fail.

 using the public key from the

[RFC5652]

MUST

5.

Confirming that the eContentType object identifier (OID) is id-ct-geofeedCSVwithCRLF
(1.2.840.113549.1.9.16.1.47). This OID
 appear within both the eContentType in the
encapContentInfo object and within the ContentType signed attribute in the signerInfo
object (see

[RFC6488]

MUST

).

6.

Verifying that the IP Address Delegation certificate extension
address ranges of the geofeed file. If all of the address ranges are not covered, then
validation

[RFC3779]

MUST

 fail.

 covers all of the

All of the above steps

MUST

 be successful to consider the geofeed file signature as valid.

The authenticator
following simple example is cryptographically incorrect:

MUST

 be hidden as a series of "#" comments at the end of the geofeed file. The

    # RPKI Signature: 192.0.2.0 - 192.0.2.255
    # MIIGlwYJKoZIhvcNAQcCoIIGiDCCBoQCAQMxDTALBglghkgBZQMEAgEwDQYLKoZ
    # IhvcNAQkQAS+gggSxMIIErTCCA5WgAwIBAgIUJ605QIPX8rW5m4Zwx3WyuW7hZu
    ...
    # imwYkXpiMxw44EZqDjl36MiWsRDLdgoijBBcGbibwyAfGeR46k5raZCGvxG+4xa
    # O8PDTxTfIYwAnBjRBKAqAZ7yX5xHfm58jUXsZJ7Ileq1S7G6Kk=
    # End Signature: 192.0.2.0 - 192.0.2.255

A correct and full example is in Appendix A.

Bush, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9632

Finding and Using Geofeed Data

August 2024

The CMS signature does not cover the signature lines.

The bracketing "# RPKI Signature:" and "# End Signature:"
example. The RPKI Signature's IP address range
inetnum: that points to the geofeed file.

MUST

MUST

 be present as shown in the
 match that of the geofeed URL in the

6.  Operational Considerations

To create the needed inetnum: objects, an operator wishing to register the location of their
geofeed file needs to coordinate with their Regional Internet Registry (RIR) or National Internet
Registry (NIR) and/or any provider Local Internet Registry (LIR) that has assigned address ranges
to them. RIRs/NIRs provide means for assignees to create and maintain inetnum: objects. They
also provide means of assigning or sub-assigning IP address resources and allowing the assignee
to create WHOIS data, including inetnum: objects, thereby referring to geofeed files.

The geofeed files

MUST

 be published via and fetched using HTTPS

[RFC9110]
.

When using data from a geofeed file, one
object's inetnum: attribute address range.

MUST

 ignore data outside the referring inetnum:

If and only if the geofeed file is not signed per Section 5, then multiple inetnum: objects
refer to the same geofeed file, and the consumer
the prefix is covered by the address range of the inetnum: object's URL it has followed.

 use only lines in the geofeed file where

MUST

MAY

If the geofeed file is signed, and the signer's certificate changes, the signature in the geofeed file
MUST

 be updated.

It is good key hygiene to use a given key for only one purpose. To dedicate a signing private key
for signing a geofeed file, an RPKI Certification Authority (CA) may issue a subordinate certificate
exclusively for the purpose shown in Appendix A.

Harvesting and publishing aggregated geofeed data outside of the RPSL model should be avoided
as it could lead to detailed data of one aggregatee undesirably affecting the less detailed data of a
different aggregatee. Moreover, publishing aggregated geofeed data prevents the reader of the
data from performing the checks described in Sections 4 and 5.

At the time of publishing this document, geolocation providers have bulk WHOIS data access at
all the RIRs. An anonymized version of such data is openly available for all RIRs except ARIN,
which requires an authorization. However, for users without such authorization, the same result
can be achieved with extra RDAP effort. There is open-source code to pass over such data across
all RIRs, collect all geofeed references, and process them

[GEOFEED-FINDER]
.

MUST NOT

 do frequent real-time lookups.

To prevent undue load on RPSL and geofeed servers, entity-fetching geofeed data using these
mechanisms
the HTTP Expires header
change very infrequently, in the absence of such an HTTP Header signal, collectors
fetch more frequently than weekly. It would be polite not to fetch at magic times such as
midnight UTC, the first of the month, etc., because too many others are likely to do the same.

Section 3.4 of [RFC8805]
 to signal when geofeed data should be refetched. As the data
SHOULD NOT

 suggests use of

[RFC9111]

Bush, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9632

Finding and Using Geofeed Data

August 2024

7.  Privacy Considerations

 geofeed data may reveal the approximate location of an IP address, which might in

[RFC8805]
turn reveal the approximate location of an individual user. Unfortunately,
privacy guidance on avoiding or ameliorating possible damage due to this exposure of the user.
In publishing pointers to geofeed files as described in this document, the operator should be
aware of this exposure in geofeed data and be cautious. All the privacy considerations of
4 of [RFC8805]

 apply to this document.

[RFC8805]

Section

 provides no

[RFC8805]

Where
to those data readily available. This is a goal, not an accident.

 provided the ability to publish location data, this document makes bulk access

8.  Implementation Status

At the time of publishing this document, the geofeed: attribute in inetnum objects has been
implemented in the RIPE and APNIC databases.

Registrants in databases that do not yet support the geofeed: attribute are using the remarks:
attribute, or equivalent.

At the time of publishing this document, the registry data published by ARIN are not the same
 for a survey of the WHOIS Tower of Babel).
RPSL as that of the other registries (see
Therefore, when fetching from ARIN via FTP
etc., the "NetRange" attribute/key must be treated as "inetnum", and the "Comment" attribute
must be treated as "remarks".

, the RDAP

[RFC0959]

[RFC7485]

[RFC3912]

, WHOIS

[RFC9082]
,

[rpki-client]

 can be used to authenticate a signed geofeed file.

9.  Security Considerations

It is generally prudent for a consumer of geofeed data to also use other sources to cross-validate
[RFC8805]
the data. All the security considerations of

 apply here as well.

The consumer of geofeed data
sets produced and/or processed by a third-party places significant trust in the third-party.

 fetch and process the data themselves. Importing data

SHOULD

As mentioned in Section 5, some RPSL repositories have weak, if any, authentication. This allows
spoofing of inetnum: objects pointing to malicious geofeed files. Section 5 suggests an
unfortunately complex method for stronger authentication based on the RPKI.

For example, if an inetnum: for a wide address range (e.g., a /16) points to an RPKI-signed
geofeed file, a customer or attacker could publish an unsigned equal or narrower (e.g., a /24)
inetnum: in a WHOIS registry that has weak authorization, abusing the rule that the most-
specific inetnum: object with a geofeed reference

 be used.

MUST

Bush, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9632

Finding and Using Geofeed Data

August 2024

If signatures were mandatory, the above attack would be stymied, but of course that is not
happening anytime soon.

The RPSL providers have had to throttle fetching from their servers due to too-frequent queries.
Usually, they throttle by the querying IP address or block. Similar defenses will likely need to be
deployed by geofeed file servers.

10.  IANA Considerations

In the SMI Security for S/MIME CMS Content Type (1.2.840.113549.1.9.16.1) in the Structure of
Management Information (SMI) Numbers (MIB Module Registrations) registry group (located at
<https://www.iana.org/assignments/smi-numbers/>
), the reference for this registration has been
updated to this document:

Decimal Description

Reference

47

id-ct-geofeedCSVwithCRLF

RFC 9632

Table 1: From SMI Security for S/MIME Module Identifier
(1.2.840.113549.1.9.16.1)

11.  References

11.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC2622]

[RFC2725]

[RFC3629]

[RFC3779]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,
, and

Alaettinoglu, C. Villamizar, C. Gerich, E. Kessens, D. Meyer, D. Bates, T.
Karrenberg, D.
,
RFC 2622 DOI 10.17487/RFC2622
, June 1999,
rfc2622>

M. Terpstra "Routing Policy Specification Language (RPSL)"
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,
.

,

,

,

,

,

,

Villamizar, C. Alaettinoglu, C. Meyer, D.
Security" RFC 2725 DOI 10.17487/RFC2725
,
editor.org/info/rfc2725>

.

,

,

, and

S. Murphy "Routing Policy System

,

, December 1999,

<https://www.rfc-

Yergeau, F. "UTF-8, a transformation format of ISO 10646" STD 63 RFC 3629
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC3629
rfc3629>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, November 2003,

.

,

,

,

K. Seo "X.509 Extensions for IP Addresses and AS
Lynn, C. Kent, S.
,
, and
Identifiers" RFC 3779 DOI 10.17487/RFC3779
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc3779>

, June 2004,

<https://www.rfc-

,

.

Bush, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9632

Finding and Using Geofeed Data

August 2024

[RFC4012]

[RFC4648]

[RFC5280]

[RFC5652]

[RFC6481]

[RFC6487]

[RFC6488]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8805]

[RFC8933]

[RFC9110]

[RFC9286]

,

Blunk, L. Damas, J. Parent, F.
Language next generation (RPSLng)" RFC 4012 DOI 10.17487/RFC4012
2005,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4012>
.

A. Robachevsky "Routing Policy Specification

, March

, and

,

,

,

Josefsson, S. "The Base16, Base32, and Base64 Data Encodings" RFC 4648 DOI
10.17487/RFC4648

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4648>

, October 2006,

,

,

.

,

,

Cooper, D. Santesson, S. Farrell, S. Boeyen, S. Housley, R.
"Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certificate and Certificate Revocation
List (CRL) Profile" RFC 5280 DOI 10.17487/RFC5280
editor.org/info/rfc5280>

, May 2008,

<https://www.rfc-

W. Polk

, and

,

,

,

,

,

.

Housley, R. "Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS)" STD 70 RFC 5652 DOI
10.17487/RFC5652

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5652>

, September 2009,

,

,

,

,

.

Huston, G. Loomans, R.
,
Repository Structure" RFC 6481 DOI 10.17487/RFC6481
,
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6481>

, and

.

G. Michaelson "A Profile for Resource Certificate

,

, February 2012,

<https://

,

Huston, G. Michaelson, G.
Certificates" RFC 6487 DOI 10.17487/RFC6487
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc6487>

, and

,

.

R. Loomans "A Profile for X.509 PKIX Resource
, February 2012,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Lepinski, M. Chi, A.
,
Public Key Infrastructure (RPKI)" RFC 6488 DOI 10.17487/RFC6488
,
2012,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6488>

S. Kent "Signed Object Template for the Resource

, and

,

.

, February

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Kline, E. Duleba, K. Szamonek, Z. Moser, S.
Published IP Geolocation Feeds" RFC 8805 DOI 10.17487/RFC8805
,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8805>

W. Kumari "A Format for Self-
, August 2020,

, and

,

,

,

.

,

Housley, R. "Update to the Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS) for Algorithm
Identifier Protection" RFC 8933 DOI 10.17487/RFC8933
<https://
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8933>

, October 2020,

.

,

,

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
97 RFC 9110 DOI 10.17487/RFC9110
rfc9110>

,

,

.

, and
, June 2022,

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP Semantics" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

,

Austein, R. Huston, G. Kent, S.
, and
Public Key Infrastructure (RPKI)" RFC 9286 DOI 10.17487/RFC9286
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9286>

M. Lepinski "Manifests for the Resource

, June 2022,

,

,

,

.

11.2.  Informative References

[GEOFEED-FINDER]

Bush, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9632

Finding and Using Geofeed Data

August 2024

"geofeed-finder" commit 5f557a4
, March 2024,
,
massimocandela/geofeed-finder>
.

<https://github.com/

[INET6NUM]

[INETNUM]

,

RIPE NCC "RIPE Database Documentation: Description of the INET6NUM
Object" <https://apps.db.ripe.net/docs/RPSL-Object-Types/Descriptions-of-
Primary-Objects/#description-of-the-inet6num-object>

,

.

,

RIPE NCC "RIPE Database Documentation: Description of the INETNUM Object"
<https://apps.db.ripe.net/docs/RPSL-Object-Types/Descriptions-of-Primary-
Objects/#description-of-the-inetnum-object>

.

,

[RDAP-GEOFEED]

 and

Singh, J.

T. Harrison "An RDAP Extension for Geofeed Data" Work in

,
Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-regext-rdap-geofeed-07
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-regext-rdap-geofeed-07>

, 6 August 2024,

,

,

.

[RFC0959]

[RFC3912]

[RFC4632]

[RFC5485]

[RFC6269]

[RFC7485]

[RFC7909]

[RFC9082]

[RFC9092]

Postel, J.
RFC0959

 and
, October 1985,

J. Reynolds "File Transfer Protocol" STD 9 RFC 959 DOI 10.17487/

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc959>

,
.

,

,

Daigle, L. "WHOIS Protocol Specification" RFC 3912 DOI 10.17487/RFC3912
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3912>
September 2004,

.

,

,

,

,

 and

T. Li "Classless Inter-domain Routing (CIDR): The Internet Address

Fuller, V.
Assignment and Aggregation Plan" BCP 122 RFC 4632 DOI 10.17487/RFC4632
August 2006,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4632>
.

,

,

,

,

Housley, R. "Digital Signatures on Internet-Draft Documents" RFC 5485 DOI
10.17487/RFC5485

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5485>

, March 2009,

,

,

.

,

Ford, M., Ed. Boucadair, M. Durand, A. Levis, P.
Address Sharing" RFC 6269 DOI 10.17487/RFC6269
editor.org/info/rfc6269>

,
,

,

,

.

, and

P. Roberts "Issues with IP

,
<https://www.rfc-

, June 2011,

,

Zhou, L. Kong, N. Shen, S. Sheng, S.
,
WHOIS Registration Objects" RFC 7485 DOI 10.17487/RFC7485
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7485>

, and
,

,

,

.

A. Servin "Inventory and Analysis of

,

, March 2015,

 and

Kisteleki, R.
B. Haberman "Securing Routing Policy Specification Language
(RPSL) Objects with Resource Public Key Infrastructure (RPKI) Signatures" RFC
7909 DOI 10.17487/RFC7909
,
rfc7909>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, June 2016,

.

,

,

Hollenbeck, S.
Format" STD 95 RFC 9082 DOI 10.17487/RFC9082
editor.org/info/rfc9082>
.

A. Newton "Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP) Query
<https://www.rfc-

, June 2021,

 and
,

,

,

,

,

Bush, R. Candela, M. Kumari, W.
, and
Data" RFC 9092 DOI 10.17487/RFC9092
,
,
info/rfc9092>

.

,

R. Housley "Finding and Using Geofeed
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/
, July 2021,

Bush, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9632

Finding and Using Geofeed Data

August 2024

[RFC9111]

[RIPE-DB]

[RIPE181]

[RIPE81]

[rpki-client]

,

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
98 RFC 9111 DOI 10.17487/RFC9111
rfc9111>

.

,

,

, and
, June 2022,

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP Caching" STD

,

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

RIPE NCC "RIPE Database Documentation"
www.ripe.net/manage-ips-and-asns/db/support/documentation/ripe-database-
documentation>

, September 2023,

<https://

.

RIPE NCC "Representation Of IP Routing Policies In A Routing Registry"
1994,

<https://www.ripe.net/publications/docs/ripe-181>

.

,

, October

RIPE NCC "Representation Of IP Routing Policies In The RIPE Database"
February 1993,

<https://www.ripe.net/publications/docs/ripe-081>

,

.

,

,

Snijders, J. "Example on how to use rpki-client to authenticate a signed
Geofeed"
, September 2023,
using_geofeed_authenticators.txt>

<https://sobornost.net/~job/

.

Appendix A.  Example

This appendix provides an example, including a trust anchor, a Certificate Revocation List (CRL)
signed by the trust anchor, a CA certificate subordinate to the trust anchor, a CRL signed by the
CA, an end entity certificate subordinate to the CA for signing the geofeed, and a detached
signature.

The trust anchor is represented by a self-signed certificate. As usual in the RPKI, the trust anchor
has authority over all IPv4 address blocks, all IPv6 address blocks, and all Autonomous System
(AS) numbers.

Bush, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9632

Finding and Using Geofeed Data

August 2024

   -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
   MIIEQTCCAymgAwIBAgIUEggycNoFVRjAuN/Fw7URu0DEZNAwDQYJKoZIhvcNAQEL
   BQAwFTETMBEGA1UEAxMKZXhhbXBsZS10YTAeFw0yMzA5MTkyMDMzMzlaFw0zMzA5
   MTYyMDMzMzlaMBUxEzARBgNVBAMTCmV4YW1wbGUtdGEwggEiMA0GCSqGSIb3DQEB
   AQUAA4IBDwAwggEKAoIBAQDQprR+g/i4JyObVURTp1JpGM23vGPyE5fDKFPqV7rw
   M1Amm7cnew66U02IzV0X5oiv5nSGfRX5UxsbR+vwPBMceQyDgS5lexFiv4fB/Vjf
   DT2qX/UjsLL9QOeaSOh7ToJSLjmtpa0D9iz7ful3hdxRjpMMZiE/reX9/ymdpW/E
   dg0F6+T9WGZE1miPeIjl5OZwnmLHCftkN/aaYk1iPNjNniHYIOjC1jSpABmoZyTj
   sgrwLE2F1fIRkVkwASqToq/D5v9voXaYYaXUNJb4H/5wenRuvT5O/n6PXh70rMQy
   F5yzLs96ytxqg5gGX9kabVnvxFU8nHfPa0rhlwfTJnljAgMBAAGjggGHMIIBgzAd
   BgNVHQ4EFgQUwL1SXb7SeLIW7LOjQ5XSBguZCDIwHwYDVR0jBBgwFoAUwL1SXb7S
   eLIW7LOjQ5XSBguZCDIwDwYDVR0TAQH/BAUwAwEB/zAOBgNVHQ8BAf8EBAMCAQYw
   GAYDVR0gAQH/BA4wDDAKBggrBgEFBQcOAjCBuQYIKwYBBQUHAQsEgawwgakwPgYI
   KwYBBQUHMAqGMnJzeW5jOi8vcnBraS5leGFtcGxlLm5ldC9yZXBvc2l0b3J5L2V4
   YW1wbGUtdGEubWZ0MDUGCCsGAQUFBzANhilodHRwczovL3JyZHAuZXhhbXBsZS5u
   ZXQvbm90aWZpY2F0aW9uLnhtbDAwBggrBgEFBQcwBYYkcnN5bmM6Ly9ycGtpLmV4
   YW1wbGUubmV0L3JlcG9zaXRvcnkvMCcGCCsGAQUFBwEHAQH/BBgwFjAJBAIAATAD
   AwEAMAkEAgACMAMDAQAwIQYIKwYBBQUHAQgBAf8EEjAQoA4wDDAKAgEAAgUA////
   /zANBgkqhkiG9w0BAQsFAAOCAQEAa9eLY9QAmnlZOIyOzbpta5wqcOUQV/yR7o/0
   1zkEZaSavKBt19lMK6AXZurx1T5jyjIwG7bEtZZThjtH2m80V5kc2tsFjSq/yp7N
   JBclMHVd3tXse9If3nXYF4bxRIcir1lXlAbYN+Eo1U3i5qJO+fxouzt7Merk2Dih
   nsenTeXKzN7tfmuCYZZHCC8viCoJWdH+o1uRM4TiQApZsUJ8sF4TABrrRJmA/Ed5
   v0CTBbgqTx7yg0+VarFLPdnjYgtpoCJqwE2C1UpX15rZSaLVuGXtbwXd/cHEg5vF
   W6QTsMeMQFEUa6hkicDGtxLTUdhckBgmCGoF2nlZii5f1BTWAg==
   -----END CERTIFICATE-----

The CRL is issued by the trust anchor.

   -----BEGIN X509 CRL-----
   MIIBjjB4AgEBMA0GCSqGSIb3DQEBCwUAMBUxEzARBgNVBAMTCmV4YW1wbGUtdGEX
   DTIzMDkyMzE1NTUzOFoXDTIzMTAyMzE1NTUzOFqgLzAtMB8GA1UdIwQYMBaAFMC9
   Ul2+0niyFuyzo0OV0gYLmQgyMAoGA1UdFAQDAgEEMA0GCSqGSIb3DQEBCwUAA4IB
   AQCngOu+Nq3WC4y/pHtLoheAOtNg32WWsKPNiEyL+QalmOtURUsWMzOq41bmoPzQ
   NDQoRmXe9mvohAVRe0CnM7A07HOtSfjw5aoouPXGTtfwEomHG2CYk+2U1bvxgZyA
   E1c5TvyhkabFMO0+857wqxRP+ht9NV0lMX6kUFlEOCw3ELVd9oNNRBwKQtXj1huM
   6Sf26va2a1tnC5zP01hN+EY3S9T5T1gcgPGBcqRWKoXJEbRzCrLsb/TMj5cMpIje
   AHZoBojVAmvL1AIH/BnGAQj0+XqaJ0axHvlqJa8iX8QwKqhp+o6sv/atY2QDDRmE
   Yjq/VrBVKu5VsDY2Lr29HszA
   -----END X509 CRL-----

The CA certificate is issued by the trust anchor. This certificate grants authority over one IPv4
address block (192.0.2.0/24) and two AS numbers (64496 and 64497).

Bush, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9632

Finding and Using Geofeed Data

August 2024

   -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
   MIIE7DCCA9SgAwIBAgIUcyCzS10hdfG65kbRq7toQAvRDLkwDQYJKoZIhvcNAQEL
   BQAwFTETMBEGA1UEAxMKZXhhbXBsZS10YTAeFw0yMzA5MjMxNTU1MzhaFw0yNDA5
   MjIxNTU1MzhaMDMxMTAvBgNVBAMTKDNBQ0UyQ0VGNEZCMjFCN0QxMUUzRTE4NEVG
   QzFFMjk3QjM3Nzg2NDIwggEiMA0GCSqGSIb3DQEBAQUAA4IBDwAwggEKAoIBAQDc
   zz1qwTxC2ocw5rqp8ktm2XyYkl8riBVuqlXwfefTxsR2YFpgz9vkYUd5Az9EVEG7
   6wGIyZbtmhK63eEeaqbKz2GHub467498BXeVrYysO+YuIGgCEYKznNDZ4j5aaDbo
   j5+4/z0Qvv6HEsxQd0f8br6lKJwgeRM6+fm7796HNPB0aqD7Zj9NRCLXjbB0DCgJ
   liH6rXMKR86ofgll9V2mRjesvhdKYgkGbOif9rvxVpLJ/6zdru5CE9yeuJZ59l+n
   YH/r6PzdJ4Q7yKrJX8qD6A60j4+biaU4MQ72KpsjhQNTTqF/HRwi0N54GDaknEwE
   TnJQHgLJDYqww9yKWtjjAgMBAAGjggIUMIICEDAdBgNVHQ4EFgQUOs4s70+yG30R
   4+GE78Hil7N3hkIwHwYDVR0jBBgwFoAUwL1SXb7SeLIW7LOjQ5XSBguZCDIwDwYD
   VR0TAQH/BAUwAwEB/zAOBgNVHQ8BAf8EBAMCAQYwGAYDVR0gAQH/BA4wDDAKBggr
   BgEFBQcOAjBDBgNVHR8EPDA6MDigNqA0hjJyc3luYzovL3Jwa2kuZXhhbXBsZS5u
   ZXQvcmVwb3NpdG9yeS9leGFtcGxlLXRhLmNybDBOBggrBgEFBQcBAQRCMEAwPgYI
   KwYBBQUHMAKGMnJzeW5jOi8vcnBraS5leGFtcGxlLm5ldC9yZXBvc2l0b3J5L2V4
   YW1wbGUtdGEuY2VyMIG5BggrBgEFBQcBCwSBrDCBqTA+BggrBgEFBQcwCoYycnN5
   bmM6Ly9ycGtpLmV4YW1wbGUubmV0L3JlcG9zaXRvcnkvZXhhbXBsZS1jYS5tZnQw
   NQYIKwYBBQUHMA2GKWh0dHBzOi8vcnJkcC5leGFtcGxlLm5ldC9ub3RpZmljYXRp
   b24ueG1sMDAGCCsGAQUFBzAFhiRyc3luYzovL3Jwa2kuZXhhbXBsZS5uZXQvcmVw
   b3NpdG9yeS8wHwYIKwYBBQUHAQcBAf8EEDAOMAwEAgABMAYDBADAAAIwIQYIKwYB
   BQUHAQgBAf8EEjAQoA4wDDAKAgMA+/ACAwD78TANBgkqhkiG9w0BAQsFAAOCAQEA
   arIrZWb22wFmP+hVjhdg3IsKHB6fQdMuUR0u2DyZTVvbL6C+HyGAH32pi5mR/QLX
   FAfdqALaB7r68tQTGLIW6bGljT+BqUPJmZcj56x3cBLJlltxwFatTloypjFt3cls
   xFCuuD9J2iBxc6odTKi6u0mhQjD+C9m4xkbe8XXWWx85IHm1s6rYbpGgiMWxBC80
   qqAzmBHGROWKUEvh00EYIYdiAvyFcrj7QtDiRJL5TDOySVd9pWJkerDzhqwE1IaZ
   rpHck+lkYTS7jTD++6v32HG62GdsmryOQUk3aU1rLb3kS8vzaGbrgHpGPid0Hd0x
   ZSl1AoIMpp5mZ7/h9aW5+A==
   -----END CERTIFICATE-----

The CRL is issued by the CA.

   -----BEGIN X509 CRL-----
   MIIBrTCBlgIBATANBgkqhkiG9w0BAQsFADAzMTEwLwYDVQQDEygzQUNFMkNFRjRG
   QjIxQjdEMTFFM0UxODRFRkMxRTI5N0IzNzc4NjQyFw0yMzA5MjMxNTU1MzhaFw0y
   MzEwMjMxNTU1MzhaoC8wLTAfBgNVHSMEGDAWgBQ6zizvT7IbfRHj4YTvweKXs3eG
   QjAKBgNVHRQEAwIBATANBgkqhkiG9w0BAQsFAAOCAQEACwCNzcAoqbMcUL1kBY65
   YhL95OnBqAcuc99pD4i9c1BmVOl7bXU3cJqLaOZ6Z8CmN0kBbcHyqlHBJ9oA/aYD
   ByhxsjzKk7jxtM2IlTpEvCEqvnGLSVihgS3h0NA+sgWqHGL3Rhcj6hVsi+j9GENc
   T6F9np1mxbI3i2xhgeDJG1pryvH0hWXh7yJiYS8ItNEaIIXDT3szK/J9wnPjukTR
   5MITiK9P3TCFujawb3O7rIT5PPgkM6eiCdwDgt6gjmw6cow5+rMjNHSRa+GOviSd
   gXljVDfJvF4tKHmw59Jc2aFnSGfX1/ITDNiNfXYpUYFOcsqxkYf8F0uO7AtbRmTF
   2w==
   -----END X509 CRL-----

The end entity certificate is issued by the CA. This certificate grants signature authority for one
IPv4 address block (192.0.2.0/24). Signature authority for AS numbers is not needed for geofeed
data signatures, so no AS numbers are included in the end entity certificate.

Bush, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9632

Finding and Using Geofeed Data

August 2024

   -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
   MIIEVjCCAz6gAwIBAgIUJ605QIPX8rW5m4Zwx3WyuW7hZvAwDQYJKoZIhvcNAQEL
   BQAwMzExMC8GA1UEAxMoM0FDRTJDRUY0RkIyMUI3RDExRTNFMTg0RUZDMUUyOTdC
   Mzc3ODY0MjAeFw0yMzA5MjMxNTU1MzhaFw0yNDA3MTkxNTU1MzhaMDMxMTAvBgNV
   BAMTKDkxNDY1MkEzQkQ1MUMxNDQyNjAxOTg4ODlGNUM0NUFCRjA1M0ExODcwggEi
   MA0GCSqGSIb3DQEBAQUAA4IBDwAwggEKAoIBAQCycTQrOb/qB2W3i3Ki8PhA/DEW
   yii2TgGo9pgCwO9lsIRI6Zb/k+aSiWWP9kSczlcQgtPCVwr62hTQZCIowBN0BL0c
   K0/5k1imJdi5qdM3nvKswM8CnoR11vB8pQFwruZmr5xphXRvE+mzuJVLgu2V1upm
   BXuWloeymudh6WWJ+GDjwPXO3RiXBejBrOFNXhaFLe08y4DPfr/S/tXJOBm7QzQp
   tmbPLYtGfprYu45liFFqqP94UeLpISfXd36AKGzqTFCcc3EW9l5UFE1MFLlnoEog
   qtoLoKABt0IkOFGKeC/EgeaBdWLe469ddC9rQft5w6g6cmxG+aYDdIEB34zrAgMB
   AAGjggFgMIIBXDAdBgNVHQ4EFgQUkUZSo71RwUQmAZiIn1xFq/BToYcwHwYDVR0j
   BBgwFoAUOs4s70+yG30R4+GE78Hil7N3hkIwDgYDVR0PAQH/BAQDAgeAMBgGA1Ud
   IAEB/wQOMAwwCgYIKwYBBQUHDgIwYQYDVR0fBFowWDBWoFSgUoZQcnN5bmM6Ly9y
   cGtpLmV4YW1wbGUubmV0L3JlcG9zaXRvcnkvM0FDRTJDRUY0RkIyMUI3RDExRTNF
   MTg0RUZDMUUyOTdCMzc3ODY0Mi5jcmwwbAYIKwYBBQUHAQEEYDBeMFwGCCsGAQUF
   BzAChlByc3luYzovL3Jwa2kuZXhhbXBsZS5uZXQvcmVwb3NpdG9yeS8zQUNFMkNF
   RjRGQjIxQjdEMTFFM0UxODRFRkMxRTI5N0IzNzc4NjQyLmNlcjAfBggrBgEFBQcB
   BwEB/wQQMA4wDAQCAAEwBgMEAMAAAjANBgkqhkiG9w0BAQsFAAOCAQEAlxt25FUe
   e0+uCidTH+4p7At3u2ncgHcGTsag3UcoPjcE/I1JgQJRu9TiM4iNB1C7Lbdd131g
   MdliL5GQ3P4QfKnfkuPR6S1V8suq6ZT1KQRyLJx+EPgDN2rb/iji0TOK6RKPNBdG
   lXVLjth4x/uu1O4V54GLEhDAPQC8IUm5intL/Hx1M1x2ptN/+j5HD3XUXd3x13yi
   s6u758nbA7ND40JNhGG5JNGQgDchL4IQzIhylMNC+bKUiyyMHz3MqoVAklIB86IW
   Ucv72Mekq+i46T/w3RnaGn4x7RAJctVJWw3e5YMrFnQcuuaGOs0QcoxW7Bi4W7Eg
   8fK1fd/f6fjZ9w==
   -----END CERTIFICATE-----

The end entity certificate is displayed below in detail. For brevity, the other two certificates are
not.

      0 1110: SEQUENCE {
      4  830:  SEQUENCE {
      8    3:   [0] {
     10    1:    INTEGER 2
            :     }
     13   20:   INTEGER
            :    27 AD 39 40 83 D7 F2 B5 B9 9B 86 70 C7 75 B2 B9
            :    6E E1 66 F0
     35   13:   SEQUENCE {
     37    9:    OBJECT IDENTIFIER
            :     sha256WithRSAEncryption (1 2 840 113549 1 1 11)
     48    0:    NULL
            :     }
     50   51:   SEQUENCE {
     52   49:    SET {
     54   47:     SEQUENCE {
     56    3:      OBJECT IDENTIFIER commonName (2 5 4 3)
     61   40:      PrintableString
            :       '3ACE2CEF4FB21B7D11E3E184EFC1E297B3778642'
            :       }
            :      }
            :     }
    103   30:   SEQUENCE {
    105   13:    UTCTime 23/09/2023 15:55:38 GMT
    120   13:    UTCTime 19/07/2024 15:55:38 GMT

Bush, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9632

Finding and Using Geofeed Data

August 2024

            :     }
    135   51:   SEQUENCE {
    137   49:    SET {
    139   47:     SEQUENCE {
    141    3:      OBJECT IDENTIFIER commonName (2 5 4 3)
    146   40:      PrintableString
            :       '914652A3BD51C144260198889F5C45ABF053A187'
            :       }
            :      }
            :     }
    188  290:   SEQUENCE {
    192   13:    SEQUENCE {
    194    9:     OBJECT IDENTIFIER
            :      rsaEncryption (1 2 840 113549 1 1 1)
    205    0:     NULL
            :      }
    207  271:    BIT STRING, encapsulates {
    212  266:     SEQUENCE {
    216  257:      INTEGER
            :      00 B2 71 34 2B 39 BF EA 07 65 B7 8B 72 A2 F0 F8
            :      40 FC 31 16 CA 28 B6 4E 01 A8 F6 98 02 C0 EF 65
            :      B0 84 48 E9 96 FF 93 E6 92 89 65 8F F6 44 9C CE
            :      57 10 82 D3 C2 57 0A FA DA 14 D0 64 22 28 C0 13
            :      74 04 BD 1C 2B 4F F9 93 58 A6 25 D8 B9 A9 D3 37
            :      9E F2 AC C0 CF 02 9E 84 75 D6 F0 7C A5 01 70 AE
            :      E6 66 AF 9C 69 85 74 6F 13 E9 B3 B8 95 4B 82 ED
            :      95 D6 EA 66 05 7B 96 96 87 B2 9A E7 61 E9 65 89
            :      F8 60 E3 C0 F5 CE DD 18 97 05 E8 C1 AC E1 4D 5E
            :      16 85 2D ED 3C CB 80 CF 7E BF D2 FE D5 C9 38 19
            :      BB 43 34 29 B6 66 CF 2D 8B 46 7E 9A D8 BB 8E 65
            :      88 51 6A A8 FF 78 51 E2 E9 21 27 D7 77 7E 80 28
            :      6C EA 4C 50 9C 73 71 16 F6 5E 54 14 4D 4C 14 B9
            :      67 A0 4A 20 AA DA 0B A0 A0 01 B7 42 24 38 51 8A
            :      78 2F C4 81 E6 81 75 62 DE E3 AF 5D 74 2F 6B 41
            :      FB 79 C3 A8 3A 72 6C 46 F9 A6 03 74 81 01 DF 8C
            :      EB
    477    3:      INTEGER 65537
            :       }
            :      }
            :     }
    482  352:   [3] {
    486  348:    SEQUENCE {
    490   29:     SEQUENCE {
    492    3:      OBJECT IDENTIFIER
            :       subjectKeyIdentifier (2 5 29 14)
    497   22:      OCTET STRING, encapsulates {
    499   20:       OCTET STRING
            :      91 46 52 A3 BD 51 C1 44 26 01 98 88 9F 5C 45 AB
            :      F0 53 A1 87
            :        }
            :       }
    521   31:     SEQUENCE {
    523    3:      OBJECT IDENTIFIER
            :       authorityKeyIdentifier (2 5 29 35)
    528   24:      OCTET STRING, encapsulates {
    530   22:       SEQUENCE {
    532   20:        [0]
            :      3A CE 2C EF 4F B2 1B 7D 11 E3 E1 84 EF C1 E2 97

Bush, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9632

Finding and Using Geofeed Data

August 2024

            :      B3 77 86 42
            :         }
            :        }
            :       }
    554   14:     SEQUENCE {
    556    3:      OBJECT IDENTIFIER keyUsage (2 5 29 15)
    561    1:      BOOLEAN TRUE
    564    4:      OCTET STRING, encapsulates {
    566    2:       BIT STRING 7 unused bits
            :        '1'B (bit 0)
            :        }
            :       }
    570   24:     SEQUENCE {
    572    3:      OBJECT IDENTIFIER certificatePolicies (2 5 29 32)
    577    1:      BOOLEAN TRUE
    580   14:      OCTET STRING, encapsulates {
    582   12:       SEQUENCE {
    584   10:        SEQUENCE {
    586    8:         OBJECT IDENTIFIER
            :          resourceCertificatePolicy (1 3 6 1 5 5 7 14 2)
            :          }
            :         }
            :        }
            :       }
    596   97:     SEQUENCE {
    598    3:      OBJECT IDENTIFIER
            :       cRLDistributionPoints (2 5 29 31)
    603   90:      OCTET STRING, encapsulates {
    605   88:       SEQUENCE {
    607   86:        SEQUENCE {
    609   84:         [0] {
    611   82:          [0] {
    613   80:           [6]
            :          'rsync://rpki.example.net/repository/3ACE'
            :          '2CEF4FB21B7D11E3E184EFC1E297B3778642.crl'
            :            }
            :           }
            :          }
            :         }
            :        }
            :       }
    695  108:     SEQUENCE {
    697    8:      OBJECT IDENTIFIER
            :       authorityInfoAccess (1 3 6 1 5 5 7 1 1)
    707   96:      OCTET STRING, encapsulates {
    709   94:       SEQUENCE {
    711   92:        SEQUENCE {
    713    8:         OBJECT IDENTIFIER
            :          caIssuers (1 3 6 1 5 5 7 48 2)
    723   80:         [6]
            :          'rsync://rpki.example.net/repository/3ACE'
            :          '2CEF4FB21B7D11E3E184EFC1E297B3778642.cer'
            :          }
            :         }
            :        }
            :       }
    805   31:     SEQUENCE {
    807    8:      OBJECT IDENTIFIER

Bush, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9632

Finding and Using Geofeed Data

August 2024

            :       ipAddrBlocks (1 3 6 1 5 5 7 1 7)
    817    1:      BOOLEAN TRUE
    820   16:      OCTET STRING, encapsulates {
    822   14:       SEQUENCE {
    824   12:        SEQUENCE {
    826    2:         OCTET STRING 00 01
    830    6:         SEQUENCE {
    832    4:          BIT STRING
            :           '010000000000000000000011'B
            :           }
            :          }
            :         }
            :        }
            :       }
            :      }
            :     }
            :    }
    838   13:  SEQUENCE {
    840    9:   OBJECT IDENTIFIER
            :    sha256WithRSAEncryption (1 2 840 113549 1 1 11)
    851    0:   NULL
            :    }
    853  257:  BIT STRING
            :   97 1B 76 E4 55 1E 7B 4F AE 0A 27 53 1F EE 29 EC
            :   0B 77 BB 69 DC 80 77 06 4E C6 A0 DD 47 28 3E 37
            :   04 FC 8D 49 81 02 51 BB D4 E2 33 88 8D 07 50 BB
            :   2D B7 5D D7 7D 60 31 D9 62 2F 91 90 DC FE 10 7C
            :   A9 DF 92 E3 D1 E9 2D 55 F2 CB AA E9 94 F5 29 04
            :   72 2C 9C 7E 10 F8 03 37 6A DB FE 28 E2 D1 33 8A
            :   E9 12 8F 34 17 46 95 75 4B 8E D8 78 C7 FB AE D4
            :   EE 15 E7 81 8B 12 10 C0 3D 00 BC 21 49 B9 8A 7B
            :   4B FC 7C 75 33 5C 76 A6 D3 7F FA 3E 47 0F 75 D4
            :   5D DD F1 D7 7C A2 B3 AB BB E7 C9 DB 03 B3 43 E3
            :   42 4D 84 61 B9 24 D1 90 80 37 21 2F 82 10 CC 88
            :   72 94 C3 42 F9 B2 94 8B 2C 8C 1F 3D CC AA 85 40
            :   92 52 01 F3 A2 16 51 CB FB D8 C7 A4 AB E8 B8 E9
            :   3F F0 DD 19 DA 1A 7E 31 ED 10 09 72 D5 49 5B 0D
            :   DE E5 83 2B 16 74 1C BA E6 86 3A CD 10 72 8C 56
            :   EC 18 B8 5B B1 20 F1 F2 B5 7D DF DF E9 F8 D9 F7
            :   }

To allow reproduction of the signature results, the end entity private key is provided. For brevity,
the other two private keys are not.

Bush, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9632

Finding and Using Geofeed Data

August 2024

   -----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
   MIIEpQIBAAKCAQEAsnE0Kzm/6gdlt4tyovD4QPwxFsootk4BqPaYAsDvZbCESOmW
   /5Pmkollj/ZEnM5XEILTwlcK+toU0GQiKMATdAS9HCtP+ZNYpiXYuanTN57yrMDP
   Ap6EddbwfKUBcK7mZq+caYV0bxPps7iVS4LtldbqZgV7lpaHsprnYellifhg48D1
   zt0YlwXowazhTV4WhS3tPMuAz36/0v7VyTgZu0M0KbZmzy2LRn6a2LuOZYhRaqj/
   eFHi6SEn13d+gChs6kxQnHNxFvZeVBRNTBS5Z6BKIKraC6CgAbdCJDhRingvxIHm
   gXVi3uOvXXQva0H7ecOoOnJsRvmmA3SBAd+M6wIDAQABAoIBAQCyB0FeMuKm8bRo
   18aKjFGSPEoZi53srIz5bvUgIi92TBLez7ZnzL6Iym26oJ+5th+lCHGO/dqlhXio
   pI50C5Yc9TFbblb/ECOsuCuuqKFjZ8CD3GVsHozXKJeMM+/o5YZXQrORj6UnwT0z
   ol/JE5pIGUCIgsXX6tz9s5BP3lUAvVQHsv6+vEVKLxQ3wj/1vIL8O/CN036EV0GJ
   mpkwmygPjfECT9wbWo0yn3jxJb36+M/QjjUP28oNIVn/IKoPZRXnqchEbuuCJ651
   IsaFSqtiThm4WZtvCH/IDq+6/dcMucmTjIRcYwW7fdHfjplllVPve9c/OmpWEQvF
   t3ArWUt5AoGBANs4764yHxo4mctLIE7G7l/tf9bP4KKUiYw4R4ByEocuqMC4yhmt
   MPCfOFLOQet71OWCkjP2L/7EKUe9yx7G5KmxAHY6jOjvcRkvGsl6lWFOsQ8p126M
   Y9hmGzMOjtsdhAiMmOWKzjvm4WqfMgghQe+PnjjSVkgTt+7BxpIuGBAvAoGBANBg
   26FF5cDLpixOd3Za1YXsOgguwCaw3Plvi7vUZRpa/zBMELEtyOebfakkIRWNm07l
   nE+lAZwxm+29PTD0nqCFE91teyzjnQaLO5kkAdJiFuVV3icLOGo399FrnJbKensm
   FGSli+3KxQhCNIJJfgWzq4bE0ioAMjdGbYXzIYQFAoGBAM6tuDJ36KDU+hIS6wu6
   O2TPSfZhF/zPo3pCWQ78/QDb+Zdw4IEiqoBA7F4NPVLg9Y/H8UTx9r/veqe7hPOo
   Ok7NpIzSmKTHkc5XfZ60Zn9OLFoKbaQ40a1kXoJdWEu2YROaUlAe9F6/Rog6PHYz
   vLE5qscRbu0XQhLkN+z7bg5bAoGBAKDsbDEb/dbqbyaAYpmwhH2sdRSkphg7Niwc
   DNm9qWa1J6Zw1+M87I6Q8naRREuU1IAVqqWHVLr/ROBQ6NTJ1Uc5/qFeT2XXUgkf
   taMKv61tuyjZK3sTmznMh0HfzUpWjEhWnCEuB+ZYVdmO52ZGw2A75RdrILL2+9Dc
   PvDXVubRAoGAdqXeSWoLxuzZXzl8rsaKrQsTYaXnOWaZieU1SL5vVe8nK257UDqZ
   E3ng2j5XPTUWli+aNGFEJGRoNtcQvO60O/sFZUhu52sqq9mWVYZNh1TB5aP8X+pV
   iFcZOLUvQEcN6PA+YQK5FU11rAI1M0Gm5RDnVnUl0L2xfCYxb7FzV6Y=
   -----END RSA PRIVATE KEY-----

The signing of "192.0.2.0/24,US,WA,Seattle," (terminated by CR and LF) yields the following
detached CMS signature.

Bush, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9632

Finding and Using Geofeed Data

August 2024

   # RPKI Signature: 192.0.2.0/24
   # MIIGQAYJKoZIhvcNAQcCoIIGMTCCBi0CAQMxDTALBglghkgBZQMEAgEwDQYLKoZ
   # IhvcNAQkQAS+gggRaMIIEVjCCAz6gAwIBAgIUJ605QIPX8rW5m4Zwx3WyuW7hZv
   # AwDQYJKoZIhvcNAQELBQAwMzExMC8GA1UEAxMoM0FDRTJDRUY0RkIyMUI3RDExR
   # TNFMTg0RUZDMUUyOTdCMzc3ODY0MjAeFw0yMzA5MjMxNTU1MzhaFw0yNDA3MTkx
   # NTU1MzhaMDMxMTAvBgNVBAMTKDkxNDY1MkEzQkQ1MUMxNDQyNjAxOTg4ODlGNUM
   # 0NUFCRjA1M0ExODcwggEiMA0GCSqGSIb3DQEBAQUAA4IBDwAwggEKAoIBAQCycT
   # QrOb/qB2W3i3Ki8PhA/DEWyii2TgGo9pgCwO9lsIRI6Zb/k+aSiWWP9kSczlcQg
   # tPCVwr62hTQZCIowBN0BL0cK0/5k1imJdi5qdM3nvKswM8CnoR11vB8pQFwruZm
   # r5xphXRvE+mzuJVLgu2V1upmBXuWloeymudh6WWJ+GDjwPXO3RiXBejBrOFNXha
   # FLe08y4DPfr/S/tXJOBm7QzQptmbPLYtGfprYu45liFFqqP94UeLpISfXd36AKG
   # zqTFCcc3EW9l5UFE1MFLlnoEogqtoLoKABt0IkOFGKeC/EgeaBdWLe469ddC9rQ
   # ft5w6g6cmxG+aYDdIEB34zrAgMBAAGjggFgMIIBXDAdBgNVHQ4EFgQUkUZSo71R
   # wUQmAZiIn1xFq/BToYcwHwYDVR0jBBgwFoAUOs4s70+yG30R4+GE78Hil7N3hkI
   # wDgYDVR0PAQH/BAQDAgeAMBgGA1UdIAEB/wQOMAwwCgYIKwYBBQUHDgIwYQYDVR
   # 0fBFowWDBWoFSgUoZQcnN5bmM6Ly9ycGtpLmV4YW1wbGUubmV0L3JlcG9zaXRvc
   # nkvM0FDRTJDRUY0RkIyMUI3RDExRTNFMTg0RUZDMUUyOTdCMzc3ODY0Mi5jcmww
   # bAYIKwYBBQUHAQEEYDBeMFwGCCsGAQUFBzAChlByc3luYzovL3Jwa2kuZXhhbXB
   # sZS5uZXQvcmVwb3NpdG9yeS8zQUNFMkNFRjRGQjIxQjdEMTFFM0UxODRFRkMxRT
   # I5N0IzNzc4NjQyLmNlcjAfBggrBgEFBQcBBwEB/wQQMA4wDAQCAAEwBgMEAMAAA
   # jANBgkqhkiG9w0BAQsFAAOCAQEAlxt25FUee0+uCidTH+4p7At3u2ncgHcGTsag
   # 3UcoPjcE/I1JgQJRu9TiM4iNB1C7Lbdd131gMdliL5GQ3P4QfKnfkuPR6S1V8su
   # q6ZT1KQRyLJx+EPgDN2rb/iji0TOK6RKPNBdGlXVLjth4x/uu1O4V54GLEhDAPQ
   # C8IUm5intL/Hx1M1x2ptN/+j5HD3XUXd3x13yis6u758nbA7ND40JNhGG5JNGQg
   # DchL4IQzIhylMNC+bKUiyyMHz3MqoVAklIB86IWUcv72Mekq+i46T/w3RnaGn4x
   # 7RAJctVJWw3e5YMrFnQcuuaGOs0QcoxW7Bi4W7Eg8fK1fd/f6fjZ9zGCAaowggG
   # mAgEDgBSRRlKjvVHBRCYBmIifXEWr8FOhhzALBglghkgBZQMEAgGgazAaBgkqhk
   # iG9w0BCQMxDQYLKoZIhvcNAQkQAS8wHAYJKoZIhvcNAQkFMQ8XDTIzMDkyMzE1N
   # TUzOFowLwYJKoZIhvcNAQkEMSIEICvi8p5S8ckg2wTRhDBQzGijjyqs5T6I+4Vt
   # BHypfcEWMA0GCSqGSIb3DQEBAQUABIIBAKZND7pKdVdfpB6zaJN89wTt+sXd0io
   # 0WULMc+o6gRJFt3wmKNW2nYPrDbocJ+Q/rDMGxbp4QetJ0MQtn1+AYAS8v5jPDO
   # 4a63U4/mJ2D3wSnQsDP0lUVknqRzfnS66HgHqiOVdHB0U+OnMEJuqHNTLx0dknb
   # L3zwxyDJTHdo+dMB0U9xdcjwpsPM3xqg57EXj5EIQK5JbardXCjrsysAnEdktUY
   # oyayGNbbQelANYJcOmuHhSXArR+qqzvNP2MDRqqKEcpd65YW6FSnqlVMIBH2M3P
   # D2F0p3sdm4IeGAZWaERVB4AXO1PUFDNdhamr4XpIwqIoAig7xiLm7j8qu5Oc=
   # End Signature: 192.0.2.0/24

Acknowledgments

,

, and

Erik Kline

Kevin Pack

Rob Austein

George Michaelson

 for the CMS and detached signature clue,

 who was too shy to agree to coauthorship.
,

Thanks to
and substantial external review, and
Additionally, we express our gratitude to early implementors, including
Luciani Eric Dugas
consuming geofeeds with this described solution:
(ipinfo.io), and
thank
Francesca Palombini Jean-Michel Combes (INTDIR) John Scudder Kyle Rose (SECDIR) Martin
Duke Mohamed Boucadair Murray Kucherawy Paul Kyzivat (GENART) Rob Wilton Roman
Danyliw

Menno Schepers Flavio
. Also, thanks to the following geolocation providers who are

 (bigdatacloud.com). For an amazing number of helpful reviews, we

Jonathan Kosgei (ipdata.co) Ben Dowling

, who also found an ASN.1 'inherit' issue,

Adrian Farrel Antonio Prado
,

Pol Nisenblat

Ties de Kock
.

Job Snijders

 for the first

, and

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Bush, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9632

Finding and Using Geofeed Data

August 2024

Authors' Addresses

Randy Bush
IIJ Research & Arrcus
5147 Crystal Springs
Bainbridge Island Washington 98110
,
United States of America
Email:

randy@psg.com

Massimo Candela
NTT
Veemweg 23
3771 MT Barneveld
Netherlands
Email:

massimo@ntt.net

Warren Kumari
Google
1600 Amphitheatre Parkway
Mountain View CA 94043
United States of America
Email:

warren@kumari.net

,

Russ Housley
Vigil Security, LLC
516 Dranesville Road
Herndon VA 20170
,
United States of America
Email:

housley@vigilsec.com

Bush, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

