Stream:
RFC:
STD:
Obsoletes:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9111
98
7234
Standards Track
June 2022
2070-1721
R. Fielding,
Adobe

M. Nottingham,
Fastly

 Ed.

 Ed.

J. Reschke,
greenbytes

 Ed.

RFC 9111
HTTP Caching

Abstract

The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is a stateless application-level protocol for distributed,
collaborative, hypertext information systems. This document deﬁnes HTTP caches and the
associated header ﬁelds that control cache behavior or indicate cacheable response messages.

This document obsoletes RFC 7234.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9111
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

Fielding, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9111

HTTP Caching

June 2022

This document may contain material from IETF Documents or IETF Contributions published or
made publicly available before November 10, 2008. The person(s) controlling the copyright in
some of this material may not have granted the IETF Trust the right to allow modiﬁcations of
such material outside the IETF Standards Process. Without obtaining an adequate license from
the person(s) controlling the copyright in such materials, this document may not be modiﬁed
outside the IETF Standards Process, and derivative works of it may not be created outside the
IETF Standards Process, except to format it for publication as an RFC or to translate it into
languages other than English.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Notation

1.2.  Syntax Notation

1.2.1.  Imported Rules

1.2.2.  Delta Seconds

2.  Overview of Cache Operation

3.  Storing Responses in Caches

3.1.  Storing Header and Trailer Fields

3.2.  Updating Stored Header Fields

3.3.  Storing Incomplete Responses

3.4.  Combining Partial Content

3.5.  Storing Responses to Authenticated Requests

4.  Constructing Responses from Caches

4.1.  Calculating Cache Keys with the Vary Header Field

4.2.  Freshness

4.2.1.  Calculating Freshness Lifetime

4.2.2.  Calculating Heuristic Freshness

4.2.3.  Calculating Age

4.2.4.  Serving Stale Responses

4.3.  Validation

4.3.1.  Sending a Validation Request

4.3.2.  Handling a Received Validation Request

Fielding, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9111

HTTP Caching

June 2022

4.3.3.  Handling a Validation Response

4.3.4.  Freshening Stored Responses upon Validation

4.3.5.  Freshening Responses with HEAD

4.4.  Invalidating Stored Responses

5.  Field Deﬁnitions

5.1.  Age

5.2.  Cache-Control

5.2.1.  Request Directives

5.2.1.1.  max-age

5.2.1.2.  max-stale

5.2.1.3.  min-fresh

5.2.1.4.  no-cache

5.2.1.5.  no-store

5.2.1.6.  no-transform

5.2.1.7.  only-if-cached

5.2.2.  Response Directives

5.2.2.1.  max-age

5.2.2.2.  must-revalidate

5.2.2.3.  must-understand

5.2.2.4.  no-cache

5.2.2.5.  no-store

5.2.2.6.  no-transform

5.2.2.7.  private

5.2.2.8.  proxy-revalidate

5.2.2.9.  public

5.2.2.10. s-maxage

5.2.3.  Extension Directives

5.2.4.  Cache Directive Registry

5.3.  Expires

5.4.  Pragma

Fielding, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9111

HTTP Caching

June 2022

5.5.  Warning

6.  Relationship to Applications and Other Caches

7.  Security Considerations

7.1.  Cache Poisoning

7.2.  Timing Attacks

7.3.  Caching of Sensitive Information

8.  IANA Considerations

8.1.  Field Name Registration

8.2.  Cache Directive Registration

8.3.  Warn Code Registry

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Collected ABNF

Appendix B.  Changes from RFC 7234

Acknowledgements

Index

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is a stateless application-level request/response protocol
that uses extensible semantics and self-descriptive messages for ﬂexible interaction with
network-based hypertext information systems. It is typically used for distributed information
systems, where the use of response caches can improve performance. This document deﬁnes
aspects of HTTP related to caching and reusing response messages.

An HTTP "cache" is a local store of response messages and the subsystem that controls storage,
retrieval, and deletion of messages in it. A cache stores cacheable responses to reduce the
response time and network bandwidth consumption on future equivalent requests. Any client or
server

 use a cache, though not when acting as a tunnel (

Section 3.7 of [HTTP]

MAY

).

Fielding, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9111

HTTP Caching

June 2022

A "shared cache" is a cache that stores responses for reuse by more than one user; shared caches
are usually (but not always) deployed as a part of an intermediary. A "private cache", in contrast,
is dedicated to a single user; often, they are deployed as a component of a user agent.

The goal of HTTP caching is signiﬁcantly improving performance by reusing a prior response
message to satisfy a current request. A cache considers a stored response "fresh", as deﬁned in
Section 4.2, if it can be reused without "validation" (checking with the origin server to see if the
cached response remains valid for this request). A fresh response can therefore reduce both
latency and network overhead each time the cache reuses it. When a cached response is not
fresh, it might still be reusable if validation can freshen it (Section 4.3) or if the origin is
unavailable (Section 4.2.4).

This document obsoletes RFC 7234, with the changes being summarized in Appendix B.

1.1.  Requirements Notation

", "
The key words "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
"
", "
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

Section 2 of [HTTP]
handling.

 deﬁnes conformance criteria and contains considerations regarding error

1.2.  Syntax Notation

This speciﬁcation uses the Augmented Backus-Naur Form (ABNF) notation of
with the notation for case-sensitivity in strings deﬁned in

[RFC7405]

.

[RFC5234]

, extended

It also uses a list extension, deﬁned in
of comma-separated lists using a "#" operator (similar to how the "*" operator indicates
repetition). Appendix A shows the collected grammar with all list operators expanded to standard
ABNF notation.

, that allows for compact deﬁnition

Section 5.6.1 of [HTTP]

1.2.1.  Imported Rules

The following core rule is included by reference, as deﬁned in
(decimal 0-9).

[RFC5234], Appendix B.1

: DIGIT

[HTTP]

 deﬁnes the following rules:

  HTTP-date     = <HTTP-date, see [HTTP], Section 5.6.7>
  OWS           = <OWS, see [HTTP], Section 5.6.3>
  field-name    = <field-name, see [HTTP], Section 5.1>
  quoted-string = <quoted-string, see [HTTP], Section 5.6.4>
  token         = <token, see [HTTP], Section 5.6.2>

Fielding, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9111

HTTP Caching

June 2022

1.2.2.  Delta Seconds

The delta-seconds rule speciﬁes a non-negative integer, representing time in seconds.

  delta-seconds  = 1*DIGIT

A recipient parsing a delta-seconds value and converting it to binary form ought to use an
arithmetic type of at least 31 bits of non-negative integer range. If a cache receives a delta-
seconds value greater than the greatest integer it can represent, or if any of its subsequent

calculations overﬂows, the cache
positive integer it can conveniently represent.

MUST

 consider the value to be 2147483648 (231) or the greatest

Note: The value 2147483648 is here for historical reasons, represents inﬁnity (over 68
years), and does not need to be stored in binary form; an implementation could
produce it as a string if any overﬂow occurs, even if the calculations are performed
with an arithmetic type incapable of directly representing that number. What
matters here is that an overﬂow be detected and not treated as a negative value in
later calculations.

2.  Overview of Cache Operation

Proper cache operation preserves the semantics of HTTP transfers while reducing the
transmission of information already held in the cache. See
terminology and core concepts of HTTP.

Section 3 of [HTTP]

 for the general

OPTIONAL

Although caching is an entirely
cached response is desirable and that such reuse is the default behavior when no requirement or
local conﬁguration prevents it. Therefore, HTTP cache requirements are focused on preventing a
cache from either storing a non-reusable response or reusing a stored response inappropriately,
rather than mandating that caches always store and reuse particular responses.

 feature of HTTP, it can be assumed that reusing a

The "cache key" is the information a cache uses to choose a response and is composed from, at a
minimum, the request method and target URI used to retrieve the stored response; the method
determines under which circumstances that response can be used to satisfy a subsequent request.
However, many HTTP caches in common use today only cache GET responses and therefore only
use the URI as the cache key.

A cache might store multiple responses for a request target that is subject to content negotiation.
Caches diﬀerentiate these responses by incorporating some of the original request's header ﬁelds
into the cache key as well, using information in the Vary response header ﬁeld, as per Section 4.1.

Caches might incorporate additional material into the cache key. For example, user agent caches
might include the referring site's identity, thereby "double keying" the cache to avoid some
privacy risks (see Section 7.2).

Fielding, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9111

HTTP Caching

June 2022

Most commonly, caches store the successful result of a retrieval request: i.e., a 200 (OK) response
Section 9.3.1 of [HTTP]
to a GET request, which contains a representation of the target resource (
).
However, it is also possible to store redirects, negative results (e.g., 404 (Not Found)), incomplete
results (e.g., 206 (Partial Content)), and responses to methods other than GET if the method's
deﬁnition allows such caching and deﬁnes something suitable for use as a cache key.

A cache is "disconnected" when it cannot contact the origin server or otherwise ﬁnd a forward
path for a request. A disconnected cache can serve stale responses in some circumstances
(Section 4.2.4).

3.  Storing Responses in Caches

A cache

MUST NOT

 store a response to a request unless:

•

the request method is understood by the cache;

•

the response status code is ﬁnal (see

Section 15 of [HTTP]

);

•

if the response status code is 206 or 304, or the must-understand cache directive (see Section
5.2.2.3) is present: the cache understands the response status code;

•

the no-store cache directive is not present in the response (see Section 5.2.2.5);

•

if the cache is shared: the private response directive is either not present or allows a shared
cache to store a modiﬁed response; see Section 5.2.2.7);

•

if the cache is shared: the Authorization header ﬁeld is not present in the request (see
11.6.2 of [HTTP]
Section 3.5); and

Section
) or a response directive is present that explicitly allows shared caching (see

•

the response contains at least one of the following:
◦
a public response directive (see Section 5.2.2.9);

◦

a private response directive, if the cache is not shared (see Section 5.2.2.7);

◦

an Expires header ﬁeld (see Section 5.3);

◦

a max-age response directive (see Section 5.2.2.1);

◦

if the cache is shared: an s-maxage response directive (see Section 5.2.2.10);

◦

a cache extension that allows it to be cached (see Section 5.2.3); or

◦

a status code that is deﬁned as heuristically cacheable (see Section 4.2.2).

Note that a cache extension can override any of the requirements listed; see Section 5.2.3.

In this context, a cache has "understood" a request method or a response status code if it
recognizes it and implements all speciﬁed caching-related behavior.

Note that, in normal operation, some caches will not store a response that has neither a cache
validator nor an explicit expiration time, as such responses are not usually useful to store.
However, caches are not prohibited from storing such responses.

Fielding, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9111

HTTP Caching

June 2022

3.1.  Storing Header and Trailer Fields

MUST

 include all received response header ﬁelds -- including unrecognized ones -- when

Caches
storing a response; this assures that new HTTP header ﬁelds can be successfully deployed.
However, the following exceptions are made:

•

The Connection header ﬁeld and ﬁelds whose names are listed in it are required by
7.6.1 of [HTTP]
doing so before storage.

 to be removed before forwarding the message. This

Section
 be implemented by

MAY

•

Likewise, some ﬁelds' semantics require them to be removed before forwarding the message,
 for some
and this
examples.

 be implemented by doing so before storage; see

Section 7.6.1 of [HTTP]

MAY

•

The no-cache (Section 5.2.2.4) and private (Section 5.2.2.7) cache directives can have
arguments that prevent storage of header ﬁelds by all caches and shared caches, respectively.

•

Header ﬁelds that are speciﬁc to the proxy that a cache uses when forwarding a request
 be stored, unless the cache incorporates the identity of the proxy into the cache key.
NOT
Eﬀectively, this is limited to Proxy-Authenticate (
Authentication-Info (
[HTTP]

), and Proxy-Authorization (

Section 11.7.1 of [HTTP]

Section 11.7.3 of [HTTP]

Section 11.7.2 of

), Proxy-

).

MUST

MAY

 either store trailer ﬁelds separate from header ﬁelds or discard them. Caches

MUST

Caches
NOT

 combine trailer ﬁelds with header ﬁelds.

3.2.  Updating Stored Header Fields

Caches are required to update a stored response's header ﬁelds from another (typically newer)
response in several situations; for example, see Sections 3.4, 4.3.4, and 4.3.5.

When doing so, the cache
response, replacing ﬁeld values that are already present, with the following exceptions:

 add each header ﬁeld in the provided response to the stored

MUST

•

Header ﬁelds excepted from storage in Section 3.1,

•

Header ﬁelds that the cache's stored response depends upon, as described below,

•

Header ﬁelds that are automatically processed and removed by the recipient, as described
below, and

•

The Content-Length header ﬁeld.

In some cases, caches (especially in user agents) store the results of processing the received
response, rather than the response itself, and updating header ﬁelds that aﬀect that processing
can result in inconsistent behavior and security issues. Caches in this situation
 omit these
header ﬁelds from updating stored responses on an exceptional basis but
omission to those ﬁelds necessary to assure integrity of the stored response.

 limit such

SHOULD

MAY

Fielding, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9111

HTTP Caching

June 2022

For example, a browser might decode the content coding of a response while it is being received,
creating a disconnect between the data it has stored and the response's original metadata.
Updating that stored metadata with a diﬀerent Content-Encoding header ﬁeld would be
problematic. Likewise, a browser might store a post-parse HTML tree rather than the content
received in the response; updating the Content-Type header ﬁeld would not be workable in this
case because any assumptions about the format made in parsing would now be invalid.

Furthermore, some ﬁelds are automatically processed and removed by the HTTP
implementation, such as the Content-Range header ﬁeld. Implementations
omit such header ﬁelds from updates, even when the processing does not actually occur.

MAY

 automatically

Note that the Content-* preﬁx is not a signal that a header ﬁeld is omitted from update; it is a
convention for MIME header ﬁelds, not HTTP.

3.3.  Storing Incomplete Responses

Section 6.1 of
) provided that the stored response is recorded as being incomplete. Likewise, a 206

If the request method is GET, the response status code is 200 (OK), and the entire response header
section has been received, a cache
[HTTP]
 be stored as if it were an incomplete 200 (OK) response. However,
(Partial Content) response
a cache
 store incomplete or partial-content responses if it does not support the Range
MUST NOT
and Content-Range header ﬁelds or if it does not understand the range units used in those ﬁelds.

 store a response that is not complete (

MAY

MAY

MAY

 complete a stored incomplete response by making a subsequent range request
) and combining the successful response with the stored response, as

A cache
(
Section 14.2 of [HTTP]
deﬁned in Section 3.4. A cache
the response has been made complete, or the request is partial and speciﬁes a range wholly
within the incomplete response. A cache
MUST NOT
explicitly marking it using the 206 (Partial Content) status code.

 send a partial response to a client without

 use an incomplete response to answer requests unless

MUST NOT

3.4.  Combining Partial Content

A response might transfer only a partial representation if the connection closed prematurely or if
the request used one or more Range speciﬁers (
transfers, a cache might have received several ranges of the same representation. A cache
combine these ranges into a single stored response, and reuse that response to satisfy later
requests, if they all share the same strong validator and the cache complies with the client
requirements in

Section 15.3.7.3 of [HTTP]

Section 14.2 of [HTTP]

). After several such

MAY

.

 update the
When combining the new response with one or more stored responses, a cache
stored response header ﬁelds using the header ﬁelds provided in the new response, as per Section
3.2.

MUST

Fielding, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9111

HTTP Caching

June 2022

3.5.  Storing Responses to Authenticated Requests

MUST NOT

A shared cache
 use a cached response to a request with an Authorization header ﬁeld
Section 11.6.2 of [HTTP]
) to satisfy any subsequent request unless the response contains a Cache-
(
Control ﬁeld with a response directive (Section 5.2.2) that allows it to be stored by a shared cache,
and the cache conforms to the requirements of that directive for that response.

In this speciﬁcation, the following response directives have such an eﬀect: must-revalidate
(Section 5.2.2.2), public (Section 5.2.2.9), and s-maxage (Section 5.2.2.10).

4.  Constructing Responses from Caches

When presented with a request, a cache

MUST NOT

 reuse a stored response unless:

•

the presented target URI (

Section 7.1 of [HTTP]

) and that of the stored response match, and

•

the request method associated with the stored response allows it to be used for the presented
request, and

•

request header ﬁelds nominated by the stored response (if any) match those presented (see
Section 4.1), and

•

the stored response does not contain the no-cache directive (Section 5.2.2.4), unless it is
successfully validated (Section 4.3), and

•

the stored response is one of the following:
◦

fresh (see Section 4.2), or

◦

allowed to be served stale (see Section 4.2.4), or

◦

successfully validated (see Section 4.3).

Note that a cache extension can override any of the requirements listed; see Section 5.2.3.

When a stored response is used to satisfy a request without validation, a cache
Age header ﬁeld (Section 5.1), replacing any present in the response with a value equal to the
stored response's current_age; see Section 4.2.3.

MUST

 generate an

MUST

 write through requests with methods that are unsafe (

Section 9.2.1 of [HTTP]
A cache
origin server; i.e., a cache is not allowed to generate a reply to such a request before having
forwarded the request and having received a corresponding response.

) to the

Also, note that unsafe requests might invalidate already-stored responses; see Section 4.4.

A cache can use a response that is stored or storable to satisfy multiple requests, provided that it
is allowed to reuse that response for the requests in question. This enables a cache to "collapse
requests" -- or combine multiple incoming requests into a single forward request upon a cache
miss -- thereby reducing load on the origin server and network. Note, however, that if the cache
cannot use the returned response for some or all of the collapsed requests, it will need to forward
the requests in order to satisfy them, potentially introducing additional latency.

Fielding, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9111

HTTP Caching

June 2022

When more than one suitable response is stored, a cache
determined by the Date header ﬁeld). It can also forward the request with "Cache-Control: max-
age=0" or "Cache-Control: no-cache" to disambiguate which response to use.

 use the most recent one (as

MUST

A cache without a clock (
use.

Section 5.6.7 of [HTTP] MUST

)

 revalidate stored responses upon every

4.1.  Calculating Cache Keys with the Vary Header Field

When a cache receives a request that can be satisﬁed by a stored response and that stored
response contains a Vary header ﬁeld (
stored response without revalidation unless all the presented request header ﬁelds nominated by
that Vary ﬁeld value match those ﬁelds in the original request (i.e., the request that caused the
cached response to be stored).

Section 12.5.5 of [HTTP]

), the cache

MUST NOT

 use that

The header ﬁelds from two requests are deﬁned to match if and only if those in the ﬁrst request
can be transformed to those in the second request by applying any of the following:

•

adding or removing whitespace, where allowed in the header ﬁeld's syntax

•

combining multiple header ﬁeld lines with the same ﬁeld name (see

Section 5.2 of [HTTP]

)

•

normalizing both header ﬁeld values in a way that is known to have identical semantics,
according to the header ﬁeld's speciﬁcation (e.g., reordering ﬁeld values when order is not
signiﬁcant; case-normalization, where values are deﬁned to be case-insensitive)

If (after any normalization that might take place) a header ﬁeld is absent from a request, it can
only match another request if it is also absent there.

A stored response with a Vary header ﬁeld value containing a member "*" always fails to match.

If multiple stored responses match, the cache will need to choose one to use. When a nominated
request header ﬁeld has a known mechanism for ranking preference (e.g., qvalues on Accept and
similar request header ﬁelds), that mechanism
MAY
such a mechanism is not available, or leads to equally preferred responses, the most recent
response (as determined by the Date header ﬁeld) is chosen, as per Section 4.

 be used to choose a preferred response. If

Some resources mistakenly omit the Vary header ﬁeld from their default response (i.e., the one
sent when the request does not express any preferences), with the eﬀect of choosing it for
subsequent requests to that resource even when more preferable responses are available. When a
cache has multiple stored responses for a target URI and one or more omits the Vary header ﬁeld,
the cache
ﬁeld value.

 choose the most recent (see Section 4.2.3) stored response with a valid Vary

SHOULD

If no stored response matches, the cache cannot satisfy the presented request. Typically, the
request is forwarded to the origin server, potentially with preconditions added to describe what
responses the cache has already stored (Section 4.3).

4.2.  Freshness

Fielding, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9111

HTTP Caching

June 2022

A "fresh" response is one whose age has not yet exceeded its freshness lifetime. Conversely, a
"stale" response is one where it has.

A response's "freshness lifetime" is the length of time between its generation by the origin server
and its expiration time. An "explicit expiration time" is the time at which the origin server intends
that a stored response can no longer be used by a cache without further validation, whereas a
"heuristic expiration time" is assigned by a cache when no explicit expiration time is available.

A response's "age" is the time that has passed since it was generated by, or successfully validated
with, the origin server.

When a response is fresh, it can be used to satisfy subsequent requests without contacting the
origin server, thereby improving eﬃciency.

The primary mechanism for determining freshness is for an origin server to provide an explicit
expiration time in the future, using either the Expires header ﬁeld (Section 5.3) or the max-age
response directive (Section 5.2.2.1). Generally, origin servers will assign future explicit expiration
times to responses in the belief that the representation is not likely to change in a semantically
signiﬁcant way before the expiration time is reached.

If an origin server wishes to force a cache to validate every request, it can assign an explicit
expiration time in the past to indicate that the response is already stale. Compliant caches will
normally validate a stale cached response before reusing it for subsequent requests (see Section
4.2.4).

Since origin servers do not always provide explicit expiration times, caches are also allowed to
use a heuristic to determine an expiration time under certain circumstances (see Section 4.2.2).

The calculation to determine if a response is fresh is:

   response_is_fresh = (freshness_lifetime > current_age)

freshness_lifetime is deﬁned in Section 4.2.1; current_age is deﬁned in Section 4.2.3.

Clients can send the max-age or min-fresh request directives (Section 5.2.1) to suggest limits on
the freshness calculations for the corresponding response. However, caches are not required to
honor them.

When calculating freshness, to avoid common problems in date parsing:

•

Although all date formats are speciﬁed to be case-sensitive, a cache recipient
the ﬁeld value case-insensitively.

SHOULD

 match

•

If a cache recipient's internal implementation of time has less resolution than the value of an
HTTP-date, the recipient
 internally represent a parsed Expires date as the nearest time
equal to or earlier than the received value.

MUST

•

A cache recipient
comparison of an age or expiration time.

MUST NOT

 allow local time zones to inﬂuence the calculation or

Fielding, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9111

HTTP Caching

June 2022

•

A cache recipient
invalid for calculating expiration.

SHOULD

 consider a date with a zone abbreviation other than "GMT" to be

Note that freshness applies only to cache operation; it cannot be used to force a user agent to
refresh its display or reload a resource. See Section 6 for an explanation of the diﬀerence between
caches and history mechanisms.

4.2.1.  Calculating Freshness Lifetime

A cache can calculate the freshness lifetime (denoted as freshness_lifetime) of a response by
evaluating the following rules and using the ﬁrst match:

•

If the cache is shared and the s-maxage response directive (Section 5.2.2.10) is present, use its
value, or

•

If the max-age response directive (Section 5.2.2.1) is present, use its value, or

•

If the Expires response header ﬁeld (Section 5.3) is present, use its value minus the value of the
Date response header ﬁeld (using the time the message was received if it is not present, as per
Section 6.6.1 of [HTTP]

), or

•

Otherwise, no explicit expiration time is present in the response. A heuristic freshness lifetime
might be applicable; see Section 4.2.2.

Note that this calculation is intended to reduce clock skew by using the clock information
provided by the origin server whenever possible.

When there is more than one value present for a given directive (e.g., two Expires header ﬁeld
lines or multiple Cache-Control: max-age directives), either the ﬁrst occurrence should be used or
the response should be considered stale. If directives conﬂict (e.g., both max-age and no-cache are
present), the most restrictive directive should be honored. Caches are encouraged to consider
responses that have invalid freshness information (e.g., a max-age directive with non-integer
content) to be stale.

4.2.2.  Calculating Heuristic Freshness

Since origin servers do not always provide explicit expiration times, a cache
heuristic expiration time when an explicit time is not speciﬁed, employing algorithms that use
other ﬁeld values (such as the Last-Modiﬁed time) to estimate a plausible expiration time. This
speciﬁcation does not provide speciﬁc algorithms, but it does impose worst-case constraints on
their results.

 assign a

MAY

MUST NOT

 use heuristics to determine freshness when an explicit expiration time is

A cache
present in the stored response. Because of the requirements in Section 3, heuristics can only be
used on responses without explicit freshness whose status codes are deﬁned as "heuristically
cacheable" (e.g., see
been marked as explicitly cacheable (e.g., with a public response directive).

) and on responses without explicit freshness that have

Section 15.1 of [HTTP]

Note that in previous speciﬁcations, heuristically cacheable response status codes were called
"cacheable by default".

Fielding, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9111

HTTP Caching

June 2022

If the response has a Last-Modiﬁed header ﬁeld (
to use a heuristic expiration value that is no more than some fraction of the interval since that
time. A typical setting of this fraction might be 10%.

Section 8.8.2 of [HTTP]

), caches are encouraged

Note: A previous version of the HTTP speciﬁcation (
prohibited caches from calculating heuristic freshness for URIs with query
components (i.e., those containing "?"). In practice, this has not been widely
implemented. Therefore, origin servers are encouraged to send explicit directives
(e.g., Cache-Control: no-cache) if they wish to prevent caching.

Section 13.9 of [RFC2616]

)

4.2.3.  Calculating Age

The Age header ﬁeld is used to convey an estimated age of the response message when obtained
from a cache. The Age ﬁeld value is the cache's estimate of the number of seconds since the origin
server generated or validated the response. The Age value is therefore the sum of the time that the
response has been resident in each of the caches along the path from the origin server, plus the
time it has been in transit along network paths.

Age calculation uses the following data:

"age_value"

The term "age_value" denotes the value of the Age header ﬁeld (Section 5.1), in a form
appropriate for arithmetic operation; or 0, if not available.

"date_value"

The term "date_value" denotes the value of the Date header ﬁeld, in a form appropriate for
 for the deﬁnition of the Date header ﬁeld
arithmetic operations. See
and for requirements regarding responses without it.

Section 6.6.1 of [HTTP]

"now"

The term "now" means the current value of this implementation's clock (
[HTTP]

).

Section 5.6.7 of

"request_time"

The value of the clock at the time of the request that resulted in the stored response.

"response_time"

The value of the clock at the time the response was received.

A response's age can be calculated in two entirely independent ways:

1.

the "apparent_age": response_time minus date_value, if the implementation's clock is
reasonably well synchronized to the origin server's clock. If the result is negative, the result is
replaced by zero.

2.

the "corrected_age_value", if all of the caches along the response path implement HTTP/1.1 or
greater. A cache
MUST
the time that the response was received.

 interpret this value relative to the time the request was initiated, not

Fielding, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9111

HTTP Caching

June 2022

  apparent_age = max(0, response_time - date_value);

  response_delay = response_time - request_time;
  corrected_age_value = age_value + response_delay;

The corrected_age_value
 be used as the corrected_initial_age. In circumstances where very
old cache implementations that might not correctly insert Age are present, corrected_initial_age
can be calculated more conservatively as

MAY

  corrected_initial_age = max(apparent_age, corrected_age_value);

The current_age of a stored response can then be calculated by adding the time (in seconds) since
the stored response was last validated by the origin server to the corrected_initial_age.

  resident_time = now - response_time;
  current_age = corrected_initial_age + resident_time;

4.2.4.  Serving Stale Responses

A "stale" response is one that either has explicit expiry information or is allowed to have heuristic
expiry calculated, but is not fresh according to the calculations in Section 4.2.

MUST NOT

A cache
(e.g., by a no-cache response directive, a must-revalidate response directive, or an applicable s-
maxage or proxy-revalidate response directive; see Section 5.2.2).

 generate a stale response if it is prohibited by an explicit in-protocol directive

MUST NOT

 generate a stale response unless it is disconnected or doing so is explicitly

A cache
permitted by the client or origin server (e.g., by the max-stale request directive in Section 5.2.1,
extension directives such as those deﬁned in
out-of-band contract).

, or conﬁguration in accordance with an

[RFC5861]

4.3.  Validation

When a cache has one or more stored responses for a requested URI, but cannot serve any of
them (e.g., because they are not fresh, or one cannot be chosen; see Section 4.1), it can use the
conditional request mechanism (
inbound server an opportunity to choose a valid stored response to use, updating the stored
metadata in the process, or to replace the stored response(s) with a new response. This process is
known as "validating" or "revalidating" the stored response.

) in the forwarded request to give the next

Section 13 of [HTTP]

4.3.1.  Sending a Validation Request

When generating a conditional request for validation, a cache either starts with a request it is
attempting to satisfy or -- if it is initiating the request independently -- synthesizes a request using
a stored response by copying the method, target URI, and request header ﬁelds identiﬁed by the
Vary header ﬁeld (Section 4.1).

Fielding, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9111

HTTP Caching

June 2022

It then updates that request with one or more precondition header ﬁelds. These contain validator
metadata sourced from a stored response(s) that has the same URI. Typically, this will include
only the stored response(s) that has the same cache key, although a cache is allowed to validate a
response that it cannot choose with the request header ﬁelds it is sending (see Section 4.1).

The precondition header ﬁelds are then compared by recipients to determine whether any stored
response is equivalent to a current representation of the resource.

), which can be used in an If-Modiﬁed-Since header ﬁeld for response validation, or in an

One such validator is the timestamp given in a Last-Modiﬁed header ﬁeld (
[HTTP]
If-Unmodiﬁed-Since or If-Range header ﬁeld for representation selection (i.e., the client is
referring speciﬁcally to a previously obtained representation with that timestamp).

Section 8.8.2 of

Another validator is the entity tag given in an ETag ﬁeld (
). One or more
entity tags, indicating one or more stored responses, can be used in an If-None-Match header
ﬁeld for response validation, or in an If-Match or If-Range header ﬁeld for representation
selection (i.e., the client is referring speciﬁcally to one or more previously obtained
representations with the listed entity tags).

Section 8.8.3 of [HTTP]

When generating a conditional request for validation, a cache:

• MUST

 send the relevant entity tags (using If-Match, If-None-Match, or If-Range) if the entity

tags were provided in the stored response(s) being validated.

• SHOULD

 send the Last-Modiﬁed value (using If-Modiﬁed-Since) if the request is not for a
subrange, a single stored response is being validated, and that response contains a Last-
Modiﬁed value.

• MAY

 send the Last-Modiﬁed value (using If-Unmodiﬁed-Since or If-Range) if the request is for

a subrange, a single stored response is being validated, and that response contains only a
Last-Modiﬁed value (not an entity tag).

In most cases, both validators are generated in cache validation requests, even when entity tags
are clearly superior, to allow old intermediaries that do not understand entity tag preconditions
to respond appropriately.

4.3.2.  Handling a Received Validation Request

Each client in the request chain may have its own cache, so it is common for a cache at an
intermediary to receive conditional requests from other (outbound) caches. Likewise, some user
agents make use of conditional requests to limit data transfers to recently modiﬁed
representations or to complete the transfer of a partially retrieved representation.

If a cache receives a request that can be satisﬁed by reusing a stored 200 (OK) or 206 (Partial
Content) response, as per Section 4, the cache
 evaluate any applicable conditional
header ﬁeld preconditions received in that request with respect to the corresponding validators
contained within the stored response.

SHOULD

Fielding, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9111

HTTP Caching

June 2022

MUST NOT

 evaluate conditional header ﬁelds that only apply to an origin server, occur in

A cache
a request with semantics that cannot be satisﬁed with a cached response, or occur in a request
with a target resource for which it has no stored responses; such preconditions are likely intended
for some other (inbound) server.

The proper evaluation of conditional requests by a cache depends on the received precondition
header ﬁelds and their precedence. In summary, the If-Match and If-Unmodiﬁed-Since
conditional header ﬁelds are not applicable to a cache, and If-None-Match takes precedence over
If-Modiﬁed-Since. See
precedence.

 for a complete speciﬁcation of precondition

Section 13.2.2 of [HTTP]

A request containing an If-None-Match header ﬁeld (
client wants to validate one or more of its own stored responses in comparison to the stored
response chosen by the cache (as per Section 4).

Section 13.1.2 of [HTTP]

) indicates that the

If an If-None-Match header ﬁeld is not present, a request containing an If-Modiﬁed-Since header
ﬁeld (
stored responses by modiﬁcation date.

) indicates that the client wants to validate one or more of its own

Section 13.1.3 of [HTTP]

If a request contains an If-Modiﬁed-Since header ﬁeld and the Last-Modiﬁed header ﬁeld is not
present in a stored response, a cache
 use the stored response's Date ﬁeld value (or, if no
Date ﬁeld is present, the time that the stored response was received) to evaluate the conditional.

SHOULD

A cache that implements partial responses to range requests, as deﬁned in
also needs to evaluate a received If-Range header ﬁeld (
the cache's chosen response.

Section 13.1.5 of [HTTP]

Section 14.2 of [HTTP]

,

) with respect to

MAY

When a cache decides to forward a request to revalidate its own stored responses for a request
that contains an If-None-Match list of entity tags, the cache
list of entity tags from its own stored set of responses (fresh or stale) and send the union of the
two lists as a replacement If-None-Match header ﬁeld value in the forwarded request. If a stored
response contains only partial content, the cache
unless the request is for a range that would be fully satisﬁed by that partial stored response. If the
response to the forwarded request is 304 (Not Modiﬁed) and has an ETag ﬁeld value with an entity
tag that is not in the client's list, the cache
 generate a 200 (OK) response for the client by
reusing its corresponding stored response, as updated by the 304 response metadata (Section
4.3.4).

 include its entity tag in the union

 combine the received list with a

MUST NOT

MUST

4.3.3.  Handling a Validation Response

Cache handling of a response to a conditional request depends upon its status code:

•

A 304 (Not Modiﬁed) response status code indicates that the stored response can be updated
and reused; see Section 4.3.4.

•

A full response (i.e., one containing content) indicates that none of the stored responses
nominated in the conditional request are suitable. Instead, the cache
response to satisfy the request. The cache
constraints (see Section 3).

 use the full
 store such a full response, subject to its

MUST

MAY

Fielding, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9111

HTTP Caching

June 2022

•

However, if a cache receives a 5xx (Server Error) response while attempting to validate a
response, it can either forward this response to the requesting client or act as if the server
failed to respond. In the latter case, the cache can send a previously stored response, subject
to its constraints on doing so (see Section 4.2.4), or retry the validation request.

4.3.4.  Freshening Stored Responses upon Validation

When a cache receives a 304 (Not Modiﬁed) response, it needs to identify stored responses that
are suitable for updating with the new information provided, and then do so.

The initial set of stored responses to update are those that could have been chosen for that
request -- i.e., those that meet the requirements in Section 4, except the last requirement to be
fresh, able to be served stale, or just validated.

Then, that initial set of stored responses is further ﬁltered by the ﬁrst match of:

•

),
If the new response contains one or more "strong validators" (see
then each of those strong validators identiﬁes a selected representation for update. All the
stored responses in the initial set with one of those same strong validators are identiﬁed for
update. If none of the initial set contains at least one of the same strong validators, then the
cache

 use the new response to update any stored responses.

Section 8.8.1 of [HTTP]

MUST NOT

•

If the new response contains no strong validators but does contain one or more "weak
validators", and those validators correspond to one of the initial set's stored responses, then
the most recent of those matching stored responses is identiﬁed for update.

•

If the new response does not include any form of validator (such as where a client generates
an If-Modiﬁed-Since request from a source other than the Last-Modiﬁed response header
ﬁeld), and there is only one stored response in the initial set, and that stored response also
lacks a validator, then that stored response is identiﬁed for update.

For each stored response identiﬁed, the cache
provided in the 304 (Not Modiﬁed) response, as per Section 3.2.

MUST

 update its header ﬁelds with the header ﬁelds

4.3.5.  Freshening Responses with HEAD

A response to the HEAD method is identical to what an equivalent request made with a GET would
have been, without sending the content. This property of HEAD responses can be used to
invalidate or update a cached GET response if the more eﬃcient conditional GET request
mechanism is not available (due to no validators being present in the stored response) or if
transmission of the content is not desired even if it has changed.

When a cache makes an inbound HEAD request for a target URI and receives a 200 (OK) response,
the cache
chosen for that request (see Section 4.1).

 update or invalidate each of its stored GET responses that could have been

SHOULD

Fielding, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9111

HTTP Caching

June 2022

For each of the stored responses that could have been chosen, if the stored response and HEAD
response have matching values for any received validator ﬁelds (ETag and Last-Modiﬁed) and, if
the HEAD response has a Content-Length header ﬁeld, the value of Content-Length matches that
of the stored response, the cache
otherwise, the cache

 update the stored response as described below;

 consider the stored response to be stale.

SHOULD

SHOULD

If a cache updates a stored response with the metadata provided in a HEAD response, the cache
MUST
Section 3.2).

 use the header ﬁelds provided in the HEAD response to update the stored response (see

4.4.  Invalidating Stored Responses

Because unsafe request methods (
potential for changing state on the origin server, intervening caches are required to invalidate
stored responses to keep their contents up to date.

) such as PUT, POST, or DELETE have the

Section 9.2.1 of [HTTP]

MUST

A cache
code in response to an unsafe request method (including methods whose safety is unknown).

) when it receives a non-error status

 invalidate the target URI (

Section 7.1 of [HTTP]

MAY

 invalidate other URIs when it receives a non-error status code in response to an

A cache
unsafe request method (including methods whose safety is unknown). In particular, the URI(s) in
the Location and Content-Location response header ﬁelds (if present) are candidates for
invalidation; other URIs might be discovered through mechanisms not speciﬁed in this document.
However, a cache
4.3.1 of [HTTP]
[HTTP]

) of the URI to be invalidated diﬀers from that of the target URI (

 trigger an invalidation under these conditions if the origin (

). This helps prevent denial-of-service attacks.

Section 7.1 of

MUST NOT

Section

"Invalidate" means that the cache will either remove all stored responses whose target URI
matches the given URI or mark them as "invalid" and in need of a mandatory validation before
they can be sent in response to a subsequent request.

A "non-error response" is one with a 2xx (Successful) or 3xx (Redirection) status code.

Note that this does not guarantee that all appropriate responses are invalidated globally; a state-
changing request would only invalidate responses in the caches it travels through.

5.  Field Deﬁnitions

This section deﬁnes the syntax and semantics of HTTP ﬁelds related to caching.

5.1.  Age

The "Age" response header ﬁeld conveys the sender's estimate of the time since the response was
generated or successfully validated at the origin server. Age values are calculated as speciﬁed in
Section 4.2.3.

Fielding, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9111

HTTP Caching

June 2022

  Age = delta-seconds

The Age ﬁeld value is a non-negative integer, representing time in seconds (see Section 1.2.2).

Although it is deﬁned as a singleton header ﬁeld, a cache encountering a message with a list-based
Age ﬁeld value

 use the ﬁrst member of the ﬁeld value, discarding subsequent ones.

SHOULD

If the ﬁeld value (after discarding additional members, as per above) is invalid (e.g., it contains
something other than a non-negative integer), a cache

 ignore the ﬁeld.

SHOULD

The presence of an Age header ﬁeld implies that the response was not generated or validated by
the origin server for this request. However, lack of an Age header ﬁeld does not imply the origin
was contacted.

5.2.  Cache-Control

The "Cache-Control" header ﬁeld is used to list directives for caches along the request/response
chain. Cache directives are unidirectional, in that the presence of a directive in a request does not
imply that the same directive is present or copied in the response.

See Section 5.2.3 for information about how Cache-Control directives deﬁned elsewhere are
handled.

 pass cache directives through in forwarded
A proxy, whether or not it implements a cache,
messages, regardless of their signiﬁcance to that application, since the directives might apply to
all recipients along the request/response chain. It is not possible to target a directive to a speciﬁc
cache.

MUST

Cache directives are identiﬁed by a token, to be compared case-insensitively, and have an
optional argument that can use both token and quoted-string syntax. For the directives deﬁned
below that deﬁne arguments, recipients ought to accept both forms, even if a speciﬁc form is
required for generation.

  Cache-Control   = #cache-directive

  cache-directive = token [ "=" ( token / quoted-string ) ]

For the cache directives deﬁned below, no argument is deﬁned (nor allowed) unless stated
otherwise.

5.2.1.  Request Directives

This section deﬁnes cache request directives. They are advisory; caches
are not required to.

MAY

 implement them, but

5.2.1.1.  max-age

Fielding, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9111

HTTP Caching

June 2022

Argument syntax:

delta-seconds (see Section 1.2.2)

The max-age request directive indicates that the client prefers a response whose age is less than
or equal to the speciﬁed number of seconds. Unless the max-stale request directive is also present,
the client does not wish to receive a stale response.

This directive uses the token form of the argument syntax: e.g., 'max-age=5' not 'max-age="5"'. A
sender

 generate the quoted-string form.

MUST NOT

5.2.1.2.  max-stale

Argument syntax:

delta-seconds (see Section 1.2.2)

The max-stale request directive indicates that the client will accept a response that has exceeded
its freshness lifetime. If a value is present, then the client is willing to accept a response that has
exceeded its freshness lifetime by no more than the speciﬁed number of seconds. If no value is
assigned to max-stale, then the client will accept a stale response of any age.

This directive uses the token form of the argument syntax: e.g., 'max-stale=10' not 'max-
stale="10"'. A sender

 generate the quoted-string form.

MUST NOT

5.2.1.3.  min-fresh

Argument syntax:

delta-seconds (see Section 1.2.2)

The min-fresh request directive indicates that the client prefers a response whose freshness
lifetime is no less than its current age plus the speciﬁed time in seconds. That is, the client wants a
response that will still be fresh for at least the speciﬁed number of seconds.

This directive uses the token form of the argument syntax: e.g., 'min-fresh=20' not 'min-fresh="20"'.
A sender

 generate the quoted-string form.

MUST NOT

5.2.1.4.  no-cache

The no-cache request directive indicates that the client prefers a stored response not be used to
satisfy the request without successful validation on the origin server.

5.2.1.5.  no-store

The no-store request directive indicates that a cache
request or any response to it. This directive applies to both private and shared caches. "MUST NOT
store" in this context means that the cache
 intentionally store the information in non-
MUST NOT
volatile storage and
storage as promptly as possible after forwarding it.

 make a best-eﬀort attempt to remove the information from volatile

 store any part of either this

MUST NOT

MUST

Fielding, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9111

HTTP Caching

June 2022

This directive is not a reliable or suﬃcient mechanism for ensuring privacy. In particular,
malicious or compromised caches might not recognize or obey this directive, and
communications networks might be vulnerable to eavesdropping.

Note that if a request containing this directive is satisﬁed from a cache, the no-store request
directive does not apply to the already stored response.

5.2.1.6.  no-transform

The no-transform request directive indicates that the client is asking for intermediaries to avoid
transforming the content, as deﬁned in

Section 7.7 of [HTTP]

.

5.2.1.7.  only-if-cached

The only-if-cached request directive indicates that the client only wishes to obtain a stored
response. Caches that honor this request directive
, upon receiving it, respond with either
a stored response consistent with the other constraints of the request or a 504 (Gateway Timeout)
status code.

SHOULD

5.2.2.  Response Directives

This section deﬁnes cache response directives. A cache
deﬁned in this section.

MUST

 obey the Cache-Control directives

5.2.2.1.  max-age

Argument syntax:

delta-seconds (see Section 1.2.2)

The max-age response directive indicates that the response is to be considered stale after its age is
greater than the speciﬁed number of seconds.

This directive uses the token form of the argument syntax: e.g., 'max-age=5' not 'max-age="5"'. A
sender

 generate the quoted-string form.

MUST NOT

5.2.2.2.  must-revalidate

The must-revalidate response directive indicates that once the response has become stale, a
cache
 reuse that response to satisfy another request until it has been successfully
validated by the origin, as deﬁned by Section 4.3.

MUST NOT

The must-revalidate directive is necessary to support reliable operation for certain protocol
features. In all circumstances, a cache
particular, if a cache is disconnected, the cache
reuse the stale response. The generated status code
another error status code is more applicable.

 generate an error response rather than
 be 504 (Gateway Timeout) unless

 ignore the must-revalidate directive; in

MUST NOT

SHOULD

MUST

The must-revalidate directive ought to be used by servers if and only if failure to validate a
request could cause incorrect operation, such as a silently unexecuted ﬁnancial transaction.

Fielding, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9111

HTTP Caching

June 2022

The must-revalidate directive also permits a shared cache to reuse a response to a request
containing an Authorization header ﬁeld (
requirement on revalidation (Section 3.5).

Section 11.6.2 of [HTTP]

), subject to the above

5.2.2.3.  must-understand

The must-understand response directive limits caching of the response to a cache that
understands and conforms to the requirements for that response's status code.

A response that contains the must-understand directive
directive. When a cache that implements the must-understand directive receives a response that
includes it, the cache
 ignore the no-store directive if it understands and implements the
status code's caching requirements.

 also contain the no-store

SHOULD

SHOULD

5.2.2.4.  no-cache

Argument syntax:

#ﬁeld-name

The no-cache response directive, in its unqualiﬁed form (without an argument), indicates that the
response
receiving a successful response; see Section 4.3.

 be used to satisfy any other request without forwarding it for validation and

MUST NOT

This allows an origin server to prevent a cache from using the response to satisfy a request
without contacting it, even by caches that have been conﬁgured to send stale responses.

The qualiﬁed form of the no-cache response directive, with an argument that lists one or more
ﬁeld names, indicates that a cache
 use the response to satisfy a subsequent request, subject
to any other restrictions on caching, if the listed header ﬁelds are excluded from the subsequent
response or the subsequent response has been successfully revalidated with the origin server
(updating or removing those ﬁelds). This allows an origin server to prevent the reuse of certain
header ﬁelds in a response, while still allowing caching of the rest of the response.

MAY

The ﬁeld names given are not limited to the set of header ﬁelds deﬁned by this speciﬁcation. Field
names are case-insensitive.

This directive uses the quoted-string form of the argument syntax. A sender
the token form (even if quoting appears not to be needed for single-entry lists).

SHOULD NOT

 generate

Note: The qualiﬁed form of the directive is often handled by caches as if an
unqualiﬁed no-cache directive was received; that is, the special handling for the
qualiﬁed form is not widely implemented.

5.2.2.5.  no-store

The no-store response directive indicates that a cache
immediate request or the response and

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

 store any part of either the

 use the response to satisfy any other request.

Fielding, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9111

HTTP Caching

June 2022

This directive applies to both private and shared caches. "MUST NOT store" in this context means
that the cache
make a best-eﬀort attempt to remove the information from volatile storage as promptly as
possible after forwarding it.

 intentionally store the information in non-volatile storage and

MUST NOT

MUST

This directive is not a reliable or suﬃcient mechanism for ensuring privacy. In particular,
malicious or compromised caches might not recognize or obey this directive, and
communications networks might be vulnerable to eavesdropping.

Note that the must-understand cache directive overrides no-store in certain circumstances; see
Section 5.2.2.3.

5.2.2.6.  no-transform

The no-transform response directive indicates that an intermediary (regardless of whether it
implements a cache)

 transform the content, as deﬁned in

Section 7.7 of [HTTP]

MUST NOT

.

5.2.2.7.  private

Argument syntax:

#ﬁeld-name

The unqualiﬁed private response directive indicates that a shared cache
response (i.e., the response is intended for a single user). It also indicates that a private cache
store the response, subject to the constraints deﬁned in Section 3, even if the response would not
otherwise be heuristically cacheable by a private cache.

 store the

MUST NOT

MAY

If a qualiﬁed private response directive is present, with an argument that lists one or more ﬁeld
names, then only the listed header ﬁelds are limited to a single user: a shared cache
store the listed header ﬁelds if they are present in the original response but
remainder of the response message without those header ﬁelds, subject the constraints deﬁned in
Section 3.

 store the

MUST NOT

MAY

The ﬁeld names given are not limited to the set of header ﬁelds deﬁned by this speciﬁcation. Field
names are case-insensitive.

This directive uses the quoted-string form of the argument syntax. A sender
the token form (even if quoting appears not to be needed for single-entry lists).

SHOULD NOT

 generate

Note: This usage of the word "private" only controls where the response can be
stored; it cannot ensure the privacy of the message content. Also, the qualiﬁed form
of the directive is often handled by caches as if an unqualiﬁed private directive was
received; that is, the special handling for the qualiﬁed form is not widely
implemented.

5.2.2.8.  proxy-revalidate

Fielding, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9111

HTTP Caching

June 2022

The proxy-revalidate response directive indicates that once the response has become stale, a
shared cache
successfully validated by the origin, as deﬁned by Section 4.3. This is analogous to must-revalidate
(Section 5.2.2.2), except that proxy-revalidate does not apply to private caches.

 reuse that response to satisfy another request until it has been

MUST NOT

Note that proxy-revalidate on its own does not imply that a response is cacheable. For example, it
might be combined with the public directive (Section 5.2.2.9), allowing the response to be cached
while requiring only a shared cache to revalidate when stale.

5.2.2.9.  public

The public response directive indicates that a cache
otherwise be prohibited, subject to the constraints deﬁned in Section 3. In other words, public
explicitly marks the response as cacheable. For example, public permits a shared cache to reuse a
response to a request containing an Authorization header ﬁeld (Section 3.5).

 store the response even if it would

MAY

Note that it is unnecessary to add the public directive to a response that is already cacheable
according to Section 3.

If a response with the public directive has no explicit freshness information, it is heuristically
cacheable (Section 4.2.2).

5.2.2.10.  s-maxage

Argument syntax:

delta-seconds (see Section 1.2.2)

The s-maxage response directive indicates that, for a shared cache, the maximum age speciﬁed by
this directive overrides the maximum age speciﬁed by either the max-age directive or the Expires
header ﬁeld.

The s-maxage directive incorporates the semantics of the proxy‑revalidate response directive
(Section 5.2.2.8) for a shared cache. A shared cache
maxage to satisfy another request until it has been successfully validated by the origin, as deﬁned
by Section 4.3. This directive also permits a shared cache to reuse a response to a request
containing an Authorization header ﬁeld, subject to the above requirements on maximum age
and revalidation (Section 3.5).

 reuse a stale response with s-

MUST NOT

This directive uses the token form of the argument syntax: e.g., 's-maxage=10' not 's-maxage="10"'.
A sender

 generate the quoted-string form.

MUST NOT

5.2.3.  Extension Directives

The Cache-Control header ﬁeld can be extended through the use of one or more extension cache
directives. A cache

 ignore unrecognized cache directives.

MUST

Informational extensions (those that do not require a change in cache behavior) can be added
without changing the semantics of other directives.

Fielding, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9111

HTTP Caching

June 2022

Behavioral extensions are designed to work by acting as modiﬁers to the existing base of cache
directives. Both the new directive and the old directive are supplied, such that applications that do
not understand the new directive will default to the behavior speciﬁed by the old directive, and
those that understand the new directive will recognize it as modifying the requirements
associated with the old directive. In this way, extensions to the existing cache directives can be
made without breaking deployed caches.

For example, consider a hypothetical new response directive called "community" that acts as a
modiﬁer to the private directive: in addition to private caches, only a cache that is shared by
members of the named community is allowed to cache the response. An origin server wishing to
allow the UCI community to use an otherwise private response in their shared cache(s) could do
so by including

Cache-Control: private, community="UCI"

A cache that recognizes such a community cache directive could broaden its behavior in
accordance with that extension. A cache that does not recognize the community cache directive
would ignore it and adhere to the private directive.

New extension directives ought to consider deﬁning:

•

What it means for a directive to be speciﬁed multiple times,

•

When the directive does not take an argument, what it means when an argument is present,

•

When the directive requires an argument, what it means when it is missing, and

•

Whether the directive is speciﬁc to requests, speciﬁc to responses, or able to be used in either.

5.2.4.  Cache Directive Registry

The "Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) Cache Directive Registry" deﬁnes the namespace for the
cache directives. It has been created and is now maintained at
assignments/http-cache-directives>
.

<https://www.iana.org/

A registration

MUST

 include the following ﬁelds:

•

Cache Directive Name

•

Pointer to speciﬁcation text

Values to be added to this namespace require IETF Review (see

[RFC8126], Section 4.8

).

5.3.  Expires

The "Expires" response header ﬁeld gives the date/time after which the response is considered
stale. See Section 4.2 for further discussion of the freshness model.

The presence of an Expires header ﬁeld does not imply that the original resource will change or
cease to exist at, before, or after that time.

Fielding, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9111

HTTP Caching

June 2022

The Expires ﬁeld value is an HTTP-date timestamp, as deﬁned in
Section 4.2 for parsing requirements speciﬁc to caches.

Section 5.6.7 of [HTTP]

. See also

  Expires = HTTP-date

For example

Expires: Thu, 01 Dec 1994 16:00:00 GMT

A cache recipient
MUST
time in the past (i.e., "already expired").

 interpret invalid date formats, especially the value "0", as representing a

MUST

If a response includes a Cache-Control header ﬁeld with the max-age directive (Section 5.2.2.1), a
recipient
directive (Section 5.2.2.10), a shared cache recipient
 ignore the Expires header ﬁeld. In both
these cases, the value in Expires is only intended for recipients that have not yet implemented the
Cache-Control header ﬁeld.

 ignore the Expires header ﬁeld. Likewise, if a response includes the s-maxage
MUST

An origin server without a clock (
ﬁeld unless its value represents a ﬁxed time in the past (always expired) or its value has been
associated with the resource by a system with a clock.

Section 5.6.7 of [HTTP] MUST NOT

 generate an Expires header

)

Historically, HTTP required the Expires ﬁeld value to be no more than a year in the future. While
longer freshness lifetimes are no longer prohibited, extremely large values have been
demonstrated to cause problems (e.g., clock overﬂows due to use of 32-bit integers for time
values), and many caches will evict a response far sooner than that.

5.4.  Pragma

The "Pragma" request header ﬁeld was deﬁned for HTTP/1.0 caches, so that clients could specify a
"no-cache" request (as Cache-Control was not deﬁned until HTTP/1.1).

However, support for Cache-Control is now widespread. As a result, this speciﬁcation deprecates
Pragma.

Note: Because the meaning of "Pragma: no-cache" in responses was never speciﬁed,
it does not provide a reliable replacement for "Cache-Control: no-cache" in them.

5.5.  Warning

The "Warning" header ﬁeld was used to carry additional information about the status or
transformation of a message that might not be reﬂected in the status code. This speciﬁcation
obsoletes it, as it is not widely generated or surfaced to users. The information it carried can be
gleaned from examining other header ﬁelds, such as Age.

Fielding, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9111

HTTP Caching

June 2022

6.  Relationship to Applications and Other Caches

Applications using HTTP often specify additional forms of caching. For example, Web browsers
often have history mechanisms such as "Back" buttons that can be used to redisplay a
representation retrieved earlier in a session.

Likewise, some Web browsers implement caching of images and other assets within a page view;
they may or may not honor HTTP caching semantics.

The requirements in this speciﬁcation do not necessarily apply to how applications use data after
it is retrieved from an HTTP cache. For example, a history mechanism can display a previous
representation even if it has expired, and an application can use cached data in other ways
beyond its freshness lifetime.

This speciﬁcation does not prohibit the application from taking HTTP caching into account; for
example, a history mechanism might tell the user that a view is stale, or it might honor cache
directives (e.g., Cache-Control: no-store).

However, when an application caches data and does not make this apparent to or easily
controllable by the user, it is strongly encouraged to deﬁne its operation with respect to HTTP
cache directives so as not to surprise authors who expect caching semantics to be honored. For
example, while it might be reasonable to deﬁne an application cache "above" HTTP that allows a
response containing Cache-Control: no-store to be reused for requests that are directly related to
the request that fetched it (such as those created during the same page load), it would likely be
surprising and confusing to users and authors if it were allowed to be reused for requests
unrelated in any way to the one from which it was obtained.

7.  Security Considerations

This section is meant to inform developers, information providers, and users of known security
concerns speciﬁc to HTTP caching. More general security considerations are addressed in "HTTP/
1.1" (

) and "HTTP Semantics" (

Section 11 of [HTTP/1.1]

Section 17 of [HTTP]

).

Caches expose an additional attack surface because the contents of the cache represent an
attractive target for malicious exploitation. Since cache contents persist after an HTTP request is
complete, an attack on the cache can reveal information long after a user believes that the
information has been removed from the network. Therefore, cache contents need to be protected
as sensitive information.

In particular, because private caches are restricted to a single user, they can be used to
reconstruct a user's activity. As a result, it is important for user agents to allow end users to
control them, for example, by allowing stored responses to be removed for some or all origin
servers.

Fielding, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 9111

HTTP Caching

June 2022

7.1.  Cache Poisoning

Storing malicious content in a cache can extend the reach of an attacker to aﬀect multiple users.
Such "cache poisoning" attacks happen when an attacker uses implementation ﬂaws, elevated
privileges, or other techniques to insert a response into a cache. This is especially eﬀective when
shared caches are used to distribute malicious content to many clients.

One common attack vector for cache poisoning is to exploit diﬀerences in message parsing on
proxies and in user agents; see
HTTP/1.1.

 for the relevant requirements regarding

Section 6.3 of [HTTP/1.1]

7.2.  Timing Attacks

Because one of the primary uses of a cache is to optimize performance, its use can "leak"
information about which resources have been previously requested.

For example, if a user visits a site and their browser caches some of its responses and then
navigates to a second site, that site can attempt to load responses it knows exist on the ﬁrst site. If
they load quickly, it can be assumed that the user has visited that site, or even a speciﬁc page on it.

Such "timing attacks" can be mitigated by adding more information to the cache key, such as the
identity of the referring site (to prevent the attack described above). This is sometimes called
"double keying".

7.3.  Caching of Sensitive Information

Implementation and deployment ﬂaws (often led to by the misunderstanding of cache
operation) might lead to the caching of sensitive information (e.g., authentication credentials)
that is thought to be private, exposing it to unauthorized parties.

Note that the Set-Cookie response header ﬁeld
response with a Set-Cookie header ﬁeld can be (and often is) used to satisfy subsequent requests
to caches. Servers that wish to control caching of these responses are encouraged to emit
appropriate Cache-Control response header ﬁelds.

 does not inhibit caching; a cacheable

[COOKIE]

8.  IANA Considerations

The change controller for the following registrations is: "IETF (iesg@ietf.org) - Internet
Engineering Task Force".

8.1.  Field Name Registration

IANA has updated the "Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) Field Name Registry" at
www.iana.org/assignments/http-ﬁelds>
names listed in the table below:

Section 18.4 of [HTTP]

, as described in

<https://
, with the ﬁeld

Fielding, et al.

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 9111

HTTP Caching

June 2022

Field Name

Status

Section

Comments

Age

permanent

5.1

Cache-Control

permanent

5.2

Expires

permanent

5.3

Pragma

deprecated

5.4

Warning

obsoleted

5.5

Table 1

8.2.  Cache Directive Registration

IANA has updated the "Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) Cache Directive Registry" at
www.iana.org/assignments/http-cache-directives>
5.2.4 and the cache directive names summarized in the table below.

 with the registration procedure per Section

<https://

Cache Directive

Section

max-age

5.2.1.1, 5.2.2.1

max-stale

min-fresh

5.2.1.2

5.2.1.3

must-revalidate

5.2.2.2

must-understand

5.2.2.3

no-cache

no-store

5.2.1.4, 5.2.2.4

5.2.1.5, 5.2.2.5

no-transform

5.2.1.6, 5.2.2.6

only-if-cached

5.2.1.7

private

5.2.2.7

proxy-revalidate

5.2.2.8

public

s-maxage

Table 2

5.2.2.9

5.2.2.10

Fielding, et al.

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 9111

HTTP Caching

June 2022

8.3.  Warn Code Registry

IANA has added the following note to the "Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) Warn Codes"
registry at
obsoleted:

<https://www.iana.org/assignments/http-warn-codes>

 stating that "Warning" has been

The Warning header ﬁeld (and the warn codes that it uses) has been obsoleted for HTTP
per [RFC9111].

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[HTTP]

[RFC2119]

[RFC5234]

[RFC7405]

[RFC8174]

,

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
97 RFC 9110 DOI 10.17487/RFC9110
rfc9110>
.

,

,

, and
, June 2022,

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP Semantics" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

,

,
Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
.
rfc2119>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

Crocker, D., Ed.
,
STD 68 RFC 5234 DOI 10.17487/RFC5234
.
editor.org/info/rfc5234>

 and
,

,

,
P. Overell "Augmented BNF for Syntax Speciﬁcations: ABNF"

, January 2008,

<https://www.rfc-

Kyzivat, P. "Case-Sensitive String Support in ABNF" RFC 7405 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7405

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7405>

, December 2014,

,

,

,

,
,
Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
.
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

9.2.  Informative References

[COOKIE]

[HTTP/1.1]

[RFC2616]

Barth, A. "HTTP State Management Mechanism" RFC 6265 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6265

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6265>
.

,
, April 2011,

,

,

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
9112 DOI 10.17487/RFC9112

, June 2022,

,

,

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP/1.1" STD 99 RFC
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9112>

,

,

,

, and

,

Fielding, R. Gettys, J. Mogul, J. Frystyk, H. Masinter, L. Leach, P.
,
Lee "Hypertext Transfer Protocol -- HTTP/1.1" RFC 2616 DOI 10.17487/RFC2616
June 1999,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2616>

T. Berners-

, and

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

Fielding, et al.

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 9111

HTTP Caching

June 2022

[RFC5861]

[RFC7234]

[RFC8126]

Nottingham, M. "HTTP Cache-Control Extensions for Stale Content" RFC 5861
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC5861

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5861>
.

, May 2010,

,

,

,

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
, and
Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Caching" RFC 7234 DOI 10.17487/RFC7234
,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7234>
.

,

J. Reschke, Ed. "Hypertext Transfer

, June 2014,

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>
.

, and

,

,

,

,

, June

Appendix A.  Collected ABNF

In the collected ABNF below, list rules are expanded per

Section 5.6.1 of [HTTP]

.

Age = delta-seconds

Cache-Control = [ cache-directive *( OWS "," OWS cache-directive ) ]

Expires = HTTP-date

HTTP-date = <HTTP-date, see [HTTP], Section 5.6.7>

OWS = <OWS, see [HTTP], Section 5.6.3>

cache-directive = token [ "=" ( token / quoted-string ) ]

delta-seconds = 1*DIGIT

field-name = <field-name, see [HTTP], Section 5.1>

quoted-string = <quoted-string, see [HTTP], Section 5.6.4>

token = <token, see [HTTP], Section 5.6.2>

Appendix B.  Changes from RFC 7234

Handling of duplicate and conﬂicting cache directives has been clariﬁed. (Section 4.2.1)

Cache invalidation of the URIs in the Location and Content-Location header ﬁelds is no longer
required but is still allowed. (Section 4.4)

Cache invalidation of the URIs in the Location and Content-Location header ﬁelds is disallowed
when the origin is diﬀerent; previously, it was the host. (Section 4.4)

Handling invalid and multiple Age header ﬁeld values has been clariﬁed. (Section 5.1)

Fielding, et al.

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 9111

HTTP Caching

June 2022

Some cache directives deﬁned by this speciﬁcation now have stronger prohibitions against
generating the quoted form of their values, since this has been found to create interoperability
problems. Consumers of extension cache directives are no longer required to accept both token
and quoted-string forms, but they still need to parse them properly for unknown extensions.
(Section 5.2)

The public and private cache directives were clariﬁed, so that they do not make responses
reusable under any condition. (Section 5.2.2)

The must-understand cache directive was introduced; caches are no longer required to
understand the semantics of new response status codes unless it is present. (Section 5.2.2.3)

The Warning response header was obsoleted. Much of the information supported by Warning
could be gleaned by examining the response, and the remaining information -- although
potentially useful -- was entirely advisory. In practice, Warning was not added by caches or
intermediaries. (Section 5.5)

Acknowledgements

See Appendix "Acknowledgements" of

[HTTP]

, which applies to this document as well.

Index

A C E F G H M N O P S V W

A

C

E

F

Section 4.2
age
Age header ﬁeld

Section 5.1

Section 1

cache
cache key
Cache-Control header ﬁeld
collapsed requests

Section 2; Section 2

Section 4

Section 5.2

Expires header ﬁeld
explicit expiration time

Section 5.3

Section 4.2

Fields
Age
Cache-Control
Expires

Section 5.1; Section 5.1

Section 5.2
Section 5.3; Section 5.3

Fielding, et al.

Standards Track

Page 33

RFC 9111

HTTP Caching

June 2022

Pragma
Warning

Section 5.4; Section 5.4
Section 5.5

Section 4.2
fresh
freshness lifetime

Section 4.2

G

H

M

N

O

P

Section 5.1

Grammar
Age
Cache-Control
DIGIT
Expires
cache-directive
delta-seconds

Section 1.2

Section 5.3

Section 5.2

Section 5.2
Section 1.2.2

Header Fields

Section 5.1; Section 5.1

Age
Cache-Control
Expires
Pragma
Warning

Section 5.2
Section 5.3; Section 5.3
Section 5.4; Section 5.4
Section 5.5
heuristic expiration time
heuristically cacheable

Section 4.2
Section 4.2.2

Section 5.2.1.1; Section 5.2.2.1

max-age (cache directive)
max-stale (cache directive)
min-fresh (cache directive)
must-revalidate (cache directive)
must-understand (cache directive)

Section 5.2.1.2
Section 5.2.1.3

Section 5.2.2.2

Section 5.2.2.3

no-cache (cache directive)
no-store (cache directive)
no-transform (cache directive)

Section 5.2.1.4; Section 5.2.2.4
Section 5.2.1.5; Section 5.2.2.5

Section 5.2.1.6; Section 5.2.2.6

only-if-cached (cache directive)

Section 5.2.1.7

Pragma header ﬁeld
private (cache directive)
private cache
Section 1

Section 5.4

Section 5.2.2.7

Fielding, et al.

Standards Track

Page 34

RFC 9111

HTTP Caching

June 2022

proxy-revalidate (cache directive)
public (cache directive)

Section 5.2.2.9

Section 5.2.2.8

S

V

W

s-maxage (cache directive)
shared cache
stale

Section 4.2

Section 1

Section 5.2.2.10

validator

Section 4.3.1

Warning header ﬁeld

Section 5.5

Authors' Addresses

editor
)

Roy T. Fielding (
Adobe
345 Park Ave
San Jose, CA 95110
United States of America
Email:
URI:

 ﬁelding@gbiv.com
 https://roy.gbiv.com/

editor
)

Mark Nottingham (
Fastly
Prahran
Australia
Email:
URI:

 mnot@mnot.net
 https://www.mnot.net/

editor
)

Julian Reschke (
greenbytes GmbH
Hafenweg 16
48155 Münster
Germany
Email:
URI:

 julian.reschke@greenbytes.de
 https://greenbytes.de/tech/webdav/

Fielding, et al.

Standards Track

Page 35

