Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9885
Standards Track
October 2025
2070-1721

P. Kaneriya
Juniper Networks

T. Li
Juniper Networks

A. Przygienda
Juniper Networks

S. Hegde
Juniper Networks

L. Ginsberg
Cisco Systems

RFC 9885
Multi-Part TLVs in IS-IS

Abstract

New technologies are adding new information into IS-IS while deployment scales are
simultaneously increasing. This causes the contents of many critical TLVs to exceed the currently
supported limit of 255 octets. This document codifies the common mechanism of extending the
TLV content space through multiple TLVs.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9885
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Kaneriya, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9885

Multi-Part TLVs

October 2025

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Requirements Language

3.  Overview of MP-TLV Applicability to TLVs

3.1.  TLVs that Advertise a List of Objects

3.2.  TLVs that Advertise Objects with Identifier(s)

3.2.1.  Example: Extended IS Reachability

3.2.2.  Example: Extended IP Reachability

4.  Multi-Part TLVs

5.  Procedure for Receiving Multi-Part TLVs

6.  Specification of Applicability of Multi-Part TLVs

7.  MP-TLV Capability Advertisement

8.  Deployment Considerations

8.1.  Controls and Alarms

8.2.  Restrictions on Generation of MP-TLVs

9.  IANA Considerations

9.1.  MP-TLV Support Sub-TLV

9.2.  Extension to IS-IS Top-Level TLV Registries

9.2.1.  MP-TLV for IS-IS Top-Level TLV Codepoints

9.2.2.  MP-TLV for IS-IS Sub-TLVs for Reverse Metric TLV

9.2.3.  MP-TLV for IS-IS Sub-TLVs for TLVs Advertising Neighbor Information

9.2.4.  MP-TLV for IS-IS Sub-TLVs for TLVs Advertising Prefix Reachability

9.2.5.  MP-TLV for IS-IS Sub-TLVs for MT-Capability TLV

9.2.6.  MP-TLV for IS-IS Sub-TLVs for IS-IS Router CAPABILITY TLV

9.2.7.  IS-IS Sub-Sub-TLVs for SRv6 Capabilities Sub-TLV

9.2.8.  MP-TLV IS-IS Sub-Sub-TLVs for BIER Info Sub-TLV

9.2.9.  MP-TLV for IS-IS Sub-TLVs for Segment Identifier/Label Binding TLVs

3

4

4

4

4

5

5

5

6

7

7

8

9

9

9

9

10

10

14

14

16

17

18

20

20

20

9.2.10. MP-TLV for IS-IS Sub-Sub-TLV Codepoints for Application-Specific Link Attributes

21

9.2.11. MP-TLV for IS-IS Sub-TLVs for Application-Specific SRLG TLV

22

Kaneriya, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9885

Multi-Part TLVs

October 2025

9.2.12. MP-TLV for IS-IS Sub-Sub-TLVs for SRv6 SID Sub-TLVs

9.2.13. MP-TLV for IS-IS Sub-Sub-TLVs for Flexible Algorithm Definition Sub-TLV

9.2.14. MP-TLV for IS-IS Sub-Sub-TLVs for Flood Reflection Discovery Sub-TLV

10. Security Considerations

11. References

11.1.  Normative References

11.2.  Informative References

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

22

23

23

24

24

24

25

25

26

The continued growth of the Internet has resulted in a commensurate growth in the scale of
service provider networks and the amount of information carried in IS-IS
 Type-
Length-Value (TLV) tuples. Simultaneously, new traffic engineering technologies are defining
new attributes, further adding to the scaling pressures. The original TLV definition limits each
TLV to a maximum of 255 octets of payload, which is becoming increasingly problematic.

[ISO10589]

Some TLV definitions have addressed this by explicitly stating that a TLV may appear multiple
times inside of a Link State PDU (LSP). However, this has not been done for many currently
defined TLVs, leaving the situation somewhat ambiguous.

[RFC5305]

 defines the Extended IS reachability TLV (22) and

For example,
MT-ISN TLV (222). These documents do not specify sending multiple TLVs for the same object
and no other mechanism for expanding the information carrying capacity of the TLV has been
specified.

[RFC5120]

 defines the

The intent of this document is to clarify and codify the situation by explicitly making multiple
occurrences of a TLV the standard mechanism for scaling TLV contents. Any future document
that proposes a different mechanism for scaling TLV contents for a given codepoint must explain
why multiple occurrences of a TLV is not appropriate.

This document does not alter the encoding of any TLV where multiple occurrences of a TLV are
already defined. Some examples of this are:

•

Router CAPABILITY TLV (Type 242)

[RFC7981]

•

Application-Specific SRLG (Type 238)

[RFC9479]

•

Instance Identifier (Type 7)

[RFC8202]

•

Application-Specific Link Attributes (sub-TLV Type 16)

[RFC9479]

Kaneriya, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9885

Multi-Part TLVs

October 2025

 has defined a 16-bit Length field for TLVs in flooding scoped Protocol Data Units

[RFC7356]
(PDUs). The problem addressed by this document would likely not be encountered when 16-bit
Length TLVs are in use. However, introduction of these new PDU types is not backwards
compatible. Therefore, there is a need to address how to expand the information advertised in
existing PDUs that use TLVs with 8-bit length fields.

The mechanism described in this document has not been documented for all TLVs previously.
This document provides the necessary protocol definition and discusses potential
interoperability issues and deployment challenges.

This document specifies a means for extending TLVs where no extension mechanism has been
previously explicitly specified. It also specifies this mechanism as the default extension
mechanism for future TLVs. The mechanism described in this document is applicable to top level
TLVs as well as any level of sub-TLVs that may appear within a top level TLV.

2.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Overview of MP-TLV Applicability to TLVs

A TLV is a tuple of (Type, Length, Value) and can be advertised in IS-IS packets. Both Type and
Length fields are one octet in size, which leads to the limitation that a maximum of 255 octets
can be sent in a single TLV. TLVs that have certain general characteristics have the potential to
require advertisement of more than 255 octets. These generic types are described in more detail
in the following subsections.

3.1.  TLVs that Advertise a List of Objects

[RFC6213]

 contains a list of Multi-Topology Identifier (MTID)/ Network Layer Protocol

Some TLVs are simply a list of objects of a given type. For example, the BFD-Enabled TLV (Type
148)
Identifier (NLPID) pairs. If more than 255 octets are required to advertise all of the MTID/NLPID
pairs, multiple BFD-Enabled TLVs would be required. The relationship between multiple BFD-
Enabled TLVs is established using the TLV type.

3.2.  TLVs that Advertise Objects with Identifier(s)

Some TLVs support advertisement of objects of a given type, where each object is identified by a
unique set of identifiers. In this case, the "key" that uniquely identifies a given object consists of
the set of identifiers.

Kaneriya, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9885

Multi-Part TLVs

October 2025

3.2.1.  Example: Extended IS Reachability

As an example, consider the Extended IS reachability TLV (Type 22)
this TLV is specified by:

[RFC5305]

. A neighbor in

•

7 octets of a system ID and pseudonode number

•

3 octets of a default metric

•

Optionally, one or more of the following link identifiers encoded as sub-TLVs:

an IPv4 interface address and IPv4 neighbor address as specified in
◦
an IPv6 interface address and IPv6 neighbor address as specified in
◦
◦
Link Local/Remote Identifiers as specified in

[RFC5307]

[RFC5305]

[RFC6119]

The key consists of the 7 octets of system ID and pseudonode number plus the set of link
identifiers that are present.

3.2.2.  Example: Extended IP Reachability

As another example, consider the Extended IP reachability TLV (Type 135)
this TLV is specified by:

[RFC5305]

. A prefix in

•

4 octets of metric information

•

1 octet of control information that includes 6 bits specifying the prefix length

•

0-4 octets of an IPv4 prefix

The above are followed by up to 250 octets of sub-TLV information.

The key consists of the 6 bits of prefix length plus 0-4 octets of an IPv4 prefix.

4.  Multi-Part TLVs

If a router advertises multiple TLV tuples with the same TLV type and the same key (when
applicable) in an IS-IS Hello (IIH) packet or in the set of LSPs for a given level, they are
considered a Multi-Part TLV (MP-TLV).

In the absence of MP-TLV support, when a router receives an MP-TLV, the receiver chooses
which TLV will be processed and which TLV will be ignored. Note that this can occur either
legitimately as a transient condition when a TLV moves from one LSP to another or as a result of
a defect in the sending implementation.

In the presence of MP-TLV support, when a router receives an MP-TLV, information from all the
TLVs is processed.

The encoding of TLVs is not altered by the introduction of MP-TLV support. In particular, the
"key" that is used to identify the set of TLVs that form an MP-TLV is the same key used in the
absence of MP-TLV support. Also note the definition of the "key" is part of the specification(s)
that define(s) the TLV and is therefore outside the scope of this document.

Kaneriya, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9885

Multi-Part TLVs

October 2025

NOTE: This document intentionally does not include a definition of the key for each codepoint.
To do so would be redundant and risk unintentionally deviating from the definition that already
exists in the relevant specifications. Also, the term "key" is a generic term that is not used in the
relevant specifications.

Each TLV that is part of an MP-TLV
Breaking of a single sub-TLV or other data unit across TLVs
data unit across TLVs results in an invalid encoding. Guidelines to receivers for handling such a
case are specified in

 be parsable independent of other TLVs in the MP-TLV.

 be done. Breaking of a

[RFC8918]
.

MUST NOT

MUST

5.  Procedure for Receiving Multi-Part TLVs

A router that receives an MP-TLV
of arrival and placement of the TLV parts in LSP fragments is irrelevant. Multiple TLV parts
 occur in different LSPs.
occur in a single LSP or parts

 accept all of the information in all of the parts. The order
MAY

MUST

MAY

The placement of the TLV parts in an IIH is irrelevant.

SHOULD NOT

 impose a minimum length check.
 be sent unless the capacity of a single TLV (255 octets) is

When processing MP-TLVs, implementations
Although MP-TLVs
exceeded, receivers
For example, if two MP-TLVs are received, each of which has a length of 100 bytes, the fact that
the total amount of data does not exceed 255 bytes
 cause the TLVs to be rejected. See
Section 8.2 for guidance on sending MP-TLVs.

 reject MP-TLVs if senders do not strictly adhere to this constraint.

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

The contents of an MP-TLV
the TLV contain key information, then replication of the key information
indicate that subsequent data
after a single copy of the key information.

MUST

MUST

 be processed as if they were concatenated. If the internals of

 be processed as if the subsequent data were concatenated

MUST

 be taken to

For example, suppose that a router receives an LSP with a Multi-Part Extended IS reachability
TLV. The first part contains key information K with unique sub-TLVs A, B, and C. The second part
contains key information K with unique sub-TLVs D, E, and F. The receiving router must then
process this as having key information K and unique sub-TLVs A, B, C, D, E, F, or, because
ordering is irrelevant, unique sub-TLVs D, E, F, A, B, C, or any other permutation.

A TLV may contain information in its fixed part that is not part of the key. For example, the
metric in both the Extended IS reachability TLV and the Extended IP Reachability TLV does not
specify which object the TLV refers to, and thus is not part of the key. Having inconsistent
information in different parts of an MP-TLV is an error.

It is also possible that information that is not part of the fixed part of a TLV can be duplicated,
e.g., a sub-TLV that is intended to only appear once appears multiple times and has inconsistent
values. This could occur within the same TLV or in different parts of an MP-TLV. This is also an
error.

Kaneriya, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9885

Multi-Part TLVs

October 2025

The document defining the TLV should specify how to handle such cases. If such a document is
not explicit in how to handle such cases, the following procedure is defined:

•

The first occurrence in the lowest numbered LSP is used. Subsequent occurrences in the
same LSP or higher numbered LSPs are ignored.

•

In the case of IIHs, the first occurrence in the IIH is used. Subsequent occurrences in the IIH
are ignored.

6.  Specification of Applicability of Multi-Part TLVs

As mentioned in Section 1, existing specifications for some TLVs have explicitly stated that the
use of MP-TLV procedures are applicable to that codepoint. However, MP-TLV procedures are
potentially applicable to any codepoint that allows sub-TLVs to be included as part of the
information advertised. MP-TLV procedures may also be applicable to codepoints that do not
support sub-TLVs, but which define an unbounded number of attributes that may be advertised
within a single codepoint. An example of the latter is GMPLS-SRLG as defined in

[RFC5307]
.

The lack of explicit indication of applicability of MP-TLV procedures for all codepoints to which
such procedures could be applied contributes to potential interoperability problems if/when
there is need to advertise more than 255 octets of information for such a codepoint.

This document makes explicit the applicability of MP-TLV procedures for all existing codepoints
defined for the IS-IS protocol by extending existing and relevant IANA protocol registries to
include an explicit indication of applicability of MP-TLV procedures for each codepoint. See
Section 9. Therefore, any new codepoints defined by future protocol extensions will explicitly
indicate the applicability of MP-TLV procedures to the new codepoints.

7.  MP-TLV Capability Advertisement

Introduction of the use of MP-TLV for codepoints where the existing specifications have not
explicitly defined MP-TLV support can be extremely disruptive to network operations in cases
where not all routers in the network support MP-TLV for those codepoints. Partial deployment
can easily result in traffic loss and/or other unexpected behaviors that may be hard to diagnose.

For example, if there are multiple TLVs associated with the advertisement of a neighbor and an
implementation does not process all of the link attributes advertised, then constrained path
calculations based on those attributes are likely to produce incorrect or unexpected results. This
could produce forwarding loops or dropped traffic.

As an aid to network operators when diagnosing such situations, a new sub-TLV of the IS-IS
Router CAPABILITY TLV

 is defined:

[RFC7981]

MP-TLV Support for TLVs with Implicit Support

Type:
Length:

30 (1 octet)
0 (1 octet)

Kaneriya, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9885

Multi-Part TLVs

October 2025

Routers that support MP-TLV for codepoints for which existing specifications do not explicitly
define such support, but for which MP-TLV is applicable,
Router CAPABILITY TLV.

 include this sub-TLV in a

SHOULD

Scope of the associated Router CAPABILITY TLV is per level (S-bit clear)

[RFC7981]
.

This advertisement is for informational purposes only. IS-IS protocol implementations
alter what is sent or how what is received is processed based on these advertisements.

MUST NOT

The sub-TLV intentionally does not provide a syntax to specify MP-TLV support on a per-
codepoint basis. It is presumed that if such support is provided that it applies to all relevant
codepoints. It is understood that in reality, a given implementation might limit MP-TLV support
to particular codepoints based on the needs of the deployment scenarios in which it is used.
Therefore, diligence is still required on the part of the operator to ensure that configurations
which require the sending of an MP-TLV for a given codepoint are not introduced on any router
in the network until all routers in the network support MP-TLV for the relevant codepoints.

The Router CAPABILITY TLV is meant to advertise capabilities that are of direct use to the IS-IS
protocol. The MP-TLV Support sub-TLV advertises management information, which is not of
direct use to the protocol. The intent is to provide information that may be of use to a network
operator. This exception to the intended use of the Router CAPABILITY TLV is introduced to help
mitigate the potential disruptiveness associated with the introduction of MP-TLV support in cases
where such support has not been explicitly defined. This is not intended to introduce a generic
new use case for the Router CAPABILITY TLV.

NOTE: A more appropriate and robust mechanism to provide detailed information on what a
given implementation supports is to utilize YANG to define Protocol Implementation
Conformance Statement (PICS). An example of this can be found in

[PICS-YANG]
.

8.  Deployment Considerations

Sending of MP-TLVs in the presence of routers that do not correctly process such advertisements
can result in interoperability issues, including incorrect forwarding of packets. This section
discusses best practices to be used when a deployment requires the use of MP-TLVs for
codepoints for which existing specifications do not explicitly indicate MP-TLV support.

While it is not in scope for this document to mandate how implementations provide the means to
prevent (or at least make less likely) partial deployment of MP-TLV for a given codepoint, it is
important to emphasize the need to assist operators in avoiding inadvertent problematic
deployment scenarios. Providing appropriate controls to enable/disable the sending of MP-TLVs
as discussed in Section 8.1 is important to avoid interoperability issues.

Kaneriya, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9885

Multi-Part TLVs

October 2025

8.1.  Controls and Alarms

RECOMMENDED

 that implementations that support the sending of MP-TLVs provide

It is
configuration controls that enable/disable generation of MP-TLVs. Given that MP-TLV support in
a given implementation may vary on a per-TLV basis, these controls
 provide support at
a per-codepoint granularity. For example, an implementation might support MP-TLVs for IS
Extended Reachability but not for IP Reachability.

SHOULD

Implementations that support disablement of MP-TLVs

MUST

 log the following occurrences:

•

An MP-TLV is received when use of MP-TLVs is disabled.

•

Local LSP generation requires the use of MP-TLVs when generation of MP-TLVs is disabled.

Network operators
 enable MP-TLVs until ensuring that all implementations that
will receive the MP-TLVs are capable of interpreting them correctly as described in Section 5.

SHOULD NOT

8.2.  Restrictions on Generation of MP-TLVs

This section discusses restrictions on sending of MP-TLVs. When applying these restrictions, it is
assumed that it has already been determined that sending of MP-TLVs is allowed based on the
setting of the controls discussed in Section 8.1.

Sending a single TLV with all the information about an object is preferable to sending multiple
TLVs. It is simpler and more efficient to parse information from a single TLV than to combine the
information from multiple TLVs. Implementations
 send multiple TLVs unless MP-
TLV is applicable to the TLV and the amount of information that is required to be sent exceeds
the capacity of a single TLV. For example, when additional space is required in an existing TLV,
as long as there is space in the TLV, information
is no space in the current LSP to fit the now larger TLV, the TLV

 be split into multiple TLVs. If there
 be moved to a new LSP.

SHOULD NOT

SHOULD NOT

SHOULD

9.  IANA Considerations

9.1.  MP-TLV Support Sub-TLV

IANA has registered the following codepoint from the "IS-IS Sub-TLVs for IS-IS Router
<https://www.iana.org/assignments/isis-tlv-codepoints>
CAPABILITY TLV" registry (see

):

30

Type:
Description:
MP-TLV Applicability:
Reference:

N

Section 7 of RFC 9885

MP-TLV Support for TLVs with Implicit Support

Kaneriya, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9885

Multi-Part TLVs

October 2025

9.2.  Extension to IS-IS Top-Level TLV Registries

IANA has extended a number of registries within the "IS-IS TLV Codepoints" registry group to
include a column that indicates whether the MP-TLV procedures described in this document are
applicable to that codepoint. "Y" indicates that MP-TLV is applicable. "N" indicates MP-TLV is not
applicable.

The following subsections provide the initial contents of the new column for a number of
existing registries. The initial values for MP-TLV applicability defined in the following
subsections are based on the rule that MP-TLV is applicable to any codepoint that supports sub-
TLVs, without regard to whether the sub-TLVs that are currently defined are sufficient to require
MP-TLVs to be sent.

To access the relevant IANA registry, search for the registry name associated with each
subsection at

<https://www.iana.org/assignments/isis-tlv-codepoints>
.

9.2.1.  MP-TLV for IS-IS Top-Level TLV Codepoints

IANA has added the MP column to the "IS-IS Top-Level TLV Codepoints" registry and populated it
as shown in Table 1.

Value

Name

MP

0

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

Reserved

Area Addresses

IIS Neighbors

ES Neighbors

Part. DIS

Prefix Neighbors

IIS Neighbors

Instance Identifier

Padding

LSP Entries

Authentication

ESN TLV

Opt. Checksum

N

N

N

N

N

N

Y

N

N

N

N

N

Kaneriya, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9885

Multi-Part TLVs

October 2025

Value

Name

MP

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

Purge Originator Identification

LSPBufferSize

Router-Fingerprint

Reverse Metric

IS-IS Area Node IDs TLV

IS-IS Flooding Path TLV

IS-IS Flooding Request TLV

Area Proxy

Flooding Parameters TLV

Extended IS reachability

IS Neighbor Attribute

IS Alias ID

L2 Bundle Member Attributes

Unassigned

SRv6 Locator

28-41

Unassigned

42

DECnet Phase IV

43-65

Unassigned

66

Lucent Proprietary

67-125

Unassigned

126

127

128

129

IPv4 Algorithm Prefix Reachability

IPv6 Algorithm Prefix Reachability

IP Int. Reach

Prot. Supported

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

Y

Y

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

N

N

N

N

N

N

Kaneriya, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9885

Multi-Part TLVs

October 2025

Value

Name

MP

130

131

132

133

134

135

136

137

138

139

140

141

142

143

144

145

146

147

148

149

150

IP Ext. Address

IDRPI

IP Intf. Address

Illegal

Traffic Engineering router ID

Extended IP reachability

Unassigned

Dynamic Name

GMPLS-SRLG

IPv6 SRLG

IPv6 TE Router ID

inter-AS reachability information

GADDR-TLV

MT-Port-Cap-TLV

MT-Capability TLV

TRILL Neighbor TLV

Unassigned

MAC-RI TLV

BFD-Enabled TLV

Segment Identifier / Label Binding

Multi-Topology Segment Identifier / Label Binding

151-160

Unassigned

161

Flood Reflection

162-175

Unassigned

N

N

N

N

N

Y

N

Y

N

N

Y

Y

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

Y

Y

N

Kaneriya, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9885

Multi-Part TLVs

October 2025

Value

Name

MP

176

177

Nortel Proprietary

Nortel Proprietary

178-210

Unassigned

211

Restart TLV

212-221

Unassigned

222

223

MT-ISN

MT IS Neighbor Attribute

224-228

Unassigned

229

M-Topologies

230-231

Unassigned

232

233

234

235

236

237

238

239

240

241

242

243

IPv6 Intf. Addr.

IPv6 Global Interface Address TLV

Unassigned

MT IP. Reach

IPv6 IP. Reach

MT IPv6 IP. Reach

Application-Specific SRLG

Unassigned

P2P 3-Way Adj. State

Unassigned

IS-IS Router CAPABILITY TLV

Scope Flooding Support

244-250

Unassigned

251

Generic Information

N

N

N

Y

Y

N

N

N

Y

Y

Y

Y

N

Y

N

Y

Kaneriya, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9885

Multi-Part TLVs

October 2025

Value

Name

252-65535

Unassigned

Table 1: IS-IS Top-Level TLV Codepoints

MP

9.2.2.  MP-TLV for IS-IS Sub-TLVs for Reverse Metric TLV

IANA has added the MP column to the "IS-IS Sub-TLVs for Reverse Metric TLV" registry and
populated it as shown in Table 2.

Value

Name

MP

0

Reserved

1-17

Unassigned

18

Traffic Engineering Metric N

19-255

Unassigned

Table 2: IS-IS Sub-TLVs for Reverse Metric TLV

9.2.3.  MP-TLV for IS-IS Sub-TLVs for TLVs Advertising Neighbor Information

IANA has added the MP column to the "IS-IS Sub-TLVs for TLVs Advertising Neighbor
Information" registry and populated it as shown in Table 3.

Value

Name

0-2

Unassigned

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

Administrative group (color)

Link Local/Remote Identifiers

Unassigned

IPv4 interface address

Unassigned

IPv4 neighbor address

Maximum link bandwidth

Maximum reservable link bandwidth

Unreserved bandwidth

MP

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

Kaneriya, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9885

Multi-Part TLVs

October 2025

Value

Name

MP

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

29

30

31

32

33

34

35

IPv6 Interface Address

IPv6 Neighbor Address

Extended Administrative Group

Link MSD

Application-Specific Link Attributes

Generic Metric

TE Default metric

Link-attributes

Link Protection Type

Interface Switching Capability Descriptor

Bandwidth Constraints

Unconstrained TE LSP Count (sub-)TLV

Remote AS Number

IPv4 Remote ASBR Identifier

IPv6 Remote ASBR Identifier

Interface Adjustment Capability Descriptor (IACD)

MTU

SPB-Metric

SPB-A-OALG

Adjacency Segment Identifier

LAN Adjacency Segment Identifier

Unidirectional Link Delay

Min/Max Unidirectional Link Delay

Unidirectional Delay Variation

N

N

N

Y

Y

N

N

N

N

Y

N

N

N

N

N

Y

N

N

Y

N

N

N

N

N

Kaneriya, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9885

Multi-Part TLVs

October 2025

Value

Name

MP

36

37

38

39

40

41

42

43

44

45

Unidirectional Link Loss

Unidirectional Residual Bandwidth

Unidirectional Available Bandwidth

Unidirectional Utilized Bandwidth

RTM Capability

L2 Bundle Member Adj-SID

L2 Bundle Member LAN Adj-SID

SRv6 End.X SID

SRv6 LAN End.X SID

IPv6 Local ASBR Identifier

46-160

Unassigned

161

Flood Reflector Adjacency

162-249

Unassigned

N

N

N

N

N

Y

Y

Y

Y

N

N

250-254

Reserved for Cisco-specific extensions

255

Reserved for future expansion

Table 3: IS-IS Sub-TLVs for TLVs Advertising Neighbor Information

9.2.4.  MP-TLV for IS-IS Sub-TLVs for TLVs Advertising Prefix Reachability

IANA has added the MP column to the "IS-IS Sub-TLVs for TLVs Advertising Prefix Reachability"
registry and populated it as shown in Table 4.

Value

Name

0

1

2

3

4

Unassigned

32-bit Administrative Tag Sub-TLV

64-bit Administrative Tag Sub-TLV

Prefix Segment Identifier

Prefix Attribute Flags

MP

Y

Y

N

N

Kaneriya, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9885

Multi-Part TLVs

October 2025

Value

Name

SRv6 End SID

5

6

Flexible Algorithm Prefix Metric (FAPM) N

MP

Y

7-10

Unassigned

11

12

IPv4 Source Router ID

IPv6 Source Router ID

13-31

Unassigned

32

BIER Info

33-255

Unassigned

N

N

Y

Table 4: IS-IS Sub-TLVs for TLVs Advertising Prefix
Reachability

9.2.5.  MP-TLV for IS-IS Sub-TLVs for MT-Capability TLV

IANA has added the MP column to the "IS-IS Sub-TLVs for MT-Capability TLV" registry and
populated it as shown in Table 5.

Value

Name

MP

0

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

Reserved

SPB-Inst

SPB-I-OALG

SPBM-SI

SPBV-ADDR

Unassigned

NICKNAME

TREES

TREE-RT-IDs

TREE-USE-IDs

10

INT-VLAN

N

Y

Y

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

Y

Kaneriya, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9885

Multi-Part TLVs

October 2025

Value

Name

MP

11-12

Unassigned

13

14

15

16

17

18

TRILL-VER

VLAN-GROUP

INT-LABEL

RBCHANNELS

AFFINITY

LABEL-GROUP

19-20

Unassigned

21

22

23

24

25

Topology sub-TLV

Hop sub-TLV

Bandwidth Constraint sub-TLV

Bandwidth Assignment sub-TLV N

Timestamp sub-TLV

N

N

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

N

N

26-254

Unassigned

255

Reserved

Table 5: IS-IS Sub-TLVs for MT-Capability TLV

9.2.6.  MP-TLV for IS-IS Sub-TLVs for IS-IS Router CAPABILITY TLV

IANA has added the MP column to the "IS-IS Sub-TLVs for IS-IS Router CAPABILITY TLV" registry
and populated it as shown in Table 6.

Value

Name

0

1

2

3

4

Reserved

TE Node Capability Descriptor

Segment Routing Capability

TE-MESH-GROUP TLV (IPv4)

TE-MESH-GROUP TLV (IPv6)

MP

N

N

Y

Y

Kaneriya, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9885

Multi-Part TLVs

October 2025

Value

Name

MP

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

PCED sub-TLV

NICKNAME

TREES

TREE-RT-IDs

TREE-USE-IDs

INT-VLAN

IPv4 TE Router ID

IPv6 TE Router ID

TRILL-VER

VLAN-GROUP

INT-LABEL

RBCHANNELS

AFFINITY

LABEL-GROUP

Segment Routing Algorithm

S-BFD Discriminators

Node-Admin-Tag

Segment Routing Local Block (SRLB)

Node MSD

N

Y

N

Y

Y

Y

N

N

N

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

N

N

N

N

Y

Segment Routing Mapping Server Preference (SRMS Preference) N

SRv6 Capabilities

Flexible Algorithm Definition (FAD)

IS-IS Area Leader Sub-TLV

IS-IS Dynamic Flooding Sub-TLV

N

N

N

N

Kaneriya, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9885

Multi-Part TLVs

October 2025

Value

Name

29

IP Algorithm Sub-TLV

30-160

Unassigned

161

Flood Reflection Discovery

162-255

Unassigned

MP

N

Y

Table 6: IS-IS Sub-TLVs for IS-IS Router CAPABILITY TLV

9.2.7.  IS-IS Sub-Sub-TLVs for SRv6 Capabilities Sub-TLV

IANA has added the MP column to the "IS-IS Sub-Sub-TLVs for SRv6 Capabilities Sub-TLV"
registry and populated it as shown in Table 7.

Value

Name

MP

0

Reserved

1-255

Unassigned

Table 7: IS-IS Sub-Sub-TLVs for SRv6
Capabilities Sub-TLV

9.2.8.  MP-TLV IS-IS Sub-Sub-TLVs for BIER Info Sub-TLV

IANA has added the MP column to the "IS-IS Sub-Sub-TLVs for BIER Info Sub-TLV" registry and
populated it as shown in Table 8.

Value Name

MP

0

1

2

Unassigned

BIER MPLS Encapsulation N

BIER PHP Request

N

3-255

Unassigned

Table 8: IS-IS Sub-Sub-TLVs for BIER Info Sub-
TLV

9.2.9.  MP-TLV for IS-IS Sub-TLVs for Segment Identifier/Label Binding TLVs

IANA has added the MP column to the "IS-IS Sub-TLVs for Segment Identifier/Label Binding
TLVs" registry and populated it as shown in Table 9.

Kaneriya, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9885

Multi-Part TLVs

October 2025

Value Name

Reserved

SID/Label

Unassigned

0

1

2

3

Prefix Segment Identifier N

MP

N

4-255

Unassigned

Table 9: IS-IS Sub-TLVs for Segment
Identifier/Label Binding TLVs

9.2.10.  MP-TLV for IS-IS Sub-Sub-TLV Codepoints for Application-Specific Link Attributes

IANA has added the MP column to the "IS-IS Sub-Sub-TLV Codepoints for Application-Specific
Link Attributes" registry and populated it as shown in Table 10.

Value

Name

Unassigned

Administrative group (color)

Unassigned

Maximum link bandwidth

0-2

3

4-8

9

10

11

Maximum reservable link bandwidth N

Unreserved bandwidth

12-13

Unassigned

14

Extended Administrative Group

15-16

Unassigned

17

18

Generic Metric

TE Default metric

19-32

Unassigned

33

34

Unidirectional Link Delay

Min/Max Unidirectional Link Delay

MP

N

N

N

N

Y

N

N

N

Kaneriya, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9885

Multi-Part TLVs

October 2025

Value

Name

35

36

37

38

39

Unidirectional Delay Variation

Unidirectional Link Loss

Unidirectional Residual Bandwidth

Unidirectional Available Bandwidth

Unidirectional Utilized Bandwidth

MP

N

N

N

N

N

40-255

Unassigned

Table 10: IS-IS Sub-Sub-TLV Codepoints for Application-
Specific Link Attributes

9.2.11.  MP-TLV for IS-IS Sub-TLVs for Application-Specific SRLG TLV

IANA has added the MP column to the "IS-IS Sub-TLVs for Application-Specific SRLG TLV"
registry and populated it as shown in Table 11.

Value

Name

MP

0-3

Unassigned

Link Local/Remote Identifiers N

4

5

6

7

8

Unassigned

IPv4 interface address

Unassigned

IPv4 neighbor address

9-11

Unassigned

12

13

IPv6 Interface Address

IPv6 Neighbor Address

14-255

Unassigned

N

N

N

N

Table 11: IS-IS Sub-TLVs for Application-Specific
SRLG TLV

9.2.12.  MP-TLV for IS-IS Sub-Sub-TLVs for SRv6 SID Sub-TLVs

IANA has added the MP column to the "IS-IS Sub-Sub-TLVs for SRv6 SID Sub-TLVs" registry and
populated it as shown in Table 12.

Kaneriya, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9885

Multi-Part TLVs

October 2025

Value

Name

MP

0

1

Reserved

SRv6 SID Structure

N

2-255

Unassigned

Table 12: IS-IS Sub-Sub-TLVs for SRv6 SID
Sub-TLVs

9.2.13.  MP-TLV for IS-IS Sub-Sub-TLVs for Flexible Algorithm Definition Sub-TLV

IANA has added the MP column to the "IS-IS Sub-Sub-TLVs for Flexible Algorithm Definition Sub-
TLV" registry and populated it as shown in Table 13.

Value

Name

MP

0

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

Reserved

Flexible Algorithm Exclude Admin Group

N

Flexible Algorithm Include-Any Admin Group N

Flexible Algorithm Include-All Admin Group

Flexible Algorithm Definition Flags

Flexible Algorithm Exclude SRLG

IS-IS Exclude Minimum Bandwidth

IS-IS Exclude Maximum Delay

IS-IS Reference Bandwidth

IS-IS Bandwidth Metric

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

10-255

Unassigned

Table 13: IS-IS Sub-Sub-TLVs for Flexible Algorithm Definition Sub-
TLV

9.2.14.  MP-TLV for IS-IS Sub-Sub-TLVs for Flood Reflection Discovery Sub-TLV

IANA has added the MP column to the "IS-IS Sub-Sub-TLVs for Flood Reflection Discovery Sub-
TLV" registry and populated it as shown in Table 14.

Kaneriya, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9885

Multi-Part TLVs

October 2025

Value

Name

0-160

Unassigned

MP

161

Flood Reflection Discovery Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute N

162-255

Unassigned

Table 14: IS-IS Sub-Sub-TLVs for Flood Reflection Discovery Sub-TLV

10.  Security Considerations

This document creates no new security issues for IS-IS. Additional instances of existing TLVs
expose no new information.

Note that support for MP-TLV may result in an implementation being more robust in handling
unexpected occurrences of MP-TLV.

Security concerns for IS-IS are addressed in

[ISO10589] [RFC5304]
,

, and

[RFC5310]
.

11.  References

11.1.  Normative References

[ISO10589]

[RFC2119]

[RFC5120]

[RFC5304]

[RFC5305]

[RFC5307]

,

ISO/IEC "Information technology - Telecommunications and information
exchange between systems - Intermediate System to Intermediate System intra-
domain routeing information exchange protocol for use in conjunction with the
protocol for providing the connectionless-mode network service (ISO 8473)"
ISO/IEC 10589:2002
30932.html>

<https://www.iso.org/standard/

, November 2002,

.

,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Przygienda, T. Shen, N.
Intermediate System to Intermediate Systems (IS-ISs)" RFC 5120 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5120

N. Sheth "M-ISIS: Multi Topology (MT) Routing in

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5120>

, February 2008,

, and

,

,

.

,

 and

Li, T.
10.17487/RFC5304

R. Atkinson "IS-IS Cryptographic Authentication" RFC 5304 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5304>

, October 2008,

,

,

,

.

 and

Li, T.
,
10.17487/RFC5305

H. Smit "IS-IS Extensions for Traffic Engineering" RFC 5305 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5305>

, October 2008,

,

,

.

 and

Kompella, K., Ed.
Generalized Multi-Protocol Label Switching (GMPLS)" RFC 5307 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5307

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5307>

Y. Rekhter, Ed. "IS-IS Extensions in Support of

, October 2008,

,

,

.

Kaneriya, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9885

Multi-Part TLVs

October 2025

[RFC5310]

[RFC6119]

[RFC6213]

[RFC7356]

[RFC7981]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8202]

[RFC8918]

[RFC9479]

,

Bhatia, M. Manral, V. Li, T. Atkinson, R. White, R.
,
Cryptographic Authentication" RFC 5310 DOI 10.17487/RFC5310
,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5310>
.

, and

,

,

M. Fanto "IS-IS Generic

,
, February 2009,

,

Harrison, J. Berger, J.
6119 DOI 10.17487/RFC6119
,
rfc6119>

, and

.

M. Bartlett "IPv6 Traffic Engineering in IS-IS" RFC
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, February 2011,

,

,

Hopps, C.
RFC6213

 and
, April 2011,

L. Ginsberg "IS-IS BFD-Enabled TLV" RFC 6213 DOI 10.17487/

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6213>

,

,

.

Ginsberg, L. Previdi, S.
,
(LSPs)" RFC 7356 DOI 10.17487/RFC7356
editor.org/info/rfc7356>

, and

,

,

.

Y. Yang "IS-IS Flooding Scope Link State PDUs

,

, September 2014,

<https://www.rfc-

Ginsberg, L. Previdi, S.
,
, and
Information" RFC 7981 DOI 10.17487/RFC7981
,
editor.org/info/rfc7981>
.

,

M. Chen "IS-IS Extensions for Advertising Router

,

, October 2016,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Ginsberg, L. Previdi, S.
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC8202

, and
, June 2017,

W. Henderickx "IS-IS Multi-Instance" RFC 8202
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8202>
.

,

,

,

Ginsberg, L. Wells, P. Li, T. Przygienda, T.
,
in IS-IS" RFC 8918 DOI 10.17487/RFC8918
editor.org/info/rfc8918>

,

,

,

.

S. Hegde "Invalid TLV Handling

,

, and
, September 2020,

<https://www.rfc-

,

J. Drake "IS-IS
Ginsberg, L. Psenak, P. Previdi, S. Henderickx, W.
,
Application-Specific Link Attributes" RFC 9479 DOI 10.17487/RFC9479
2023,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9479>
.

, and

,

,

,

, October

11.2.  Informative References

[PICS-YANG]

,

,

Qu, Y. Ginsberg, L. Przygienda, A. Decraene, B.
IS Protocol Implementation Conformance Statement (PICS)" Work in Progress
Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-lsr-isis-pics-yang-02
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-lsr-isis-pics-yang-02>

, 20 October 2025,

Y. Zhu "YANG Model for IS-

<https://

, and

,
,

,

.

,

Contributors

The following individual made a substantial contribution to the content of this document and
should be considered a coauthor:

Chris Bowers
Email:

cbowers107@gmail.com

Kaneriya, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9885

Multi-Part TLVs

October 2025

Authors' Addresses

Parag Kaneriya
Juniper Networks
Elnath-Exora Business Park Survey
Bangalore 560103
Karnataka
India
Email:

pkaneria@juniper.net

Tony Li
Juniper Networks
1133 Innovation Way
Sunnyvale California 94089
,
United States of America
Email:

tony.li@tony.li

Antoni Przygienda
Juniper Networks
1133 Innovation Way
Sunnyvale California 94089
,
United States of America
Email:

prz@juniper.net

Shraddha Hegde
Juniper Networks
Elnath-Exora Business Park Survey
Bangalore 560103
Karnataka
India
Email:

shraddha@juniper.net

Les Ginsberg
Cisco Systems
Email:

ginsberg@cisco.com

Kaneriya, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

