Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9688
Standards Track
November 2024
2070-1721
R. Housley
Vigil Security

RFC 9688
Use of the SHA3 One-Way Hash Functions in the
Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS)

Abstract

This document describes the conventions for using the one-way hash functions in the SHA3
family with the Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS). The SHA3 family can be used as a message
digest algorithm, as part of a signature algorithm, as part of a message authentication code, or as
part of a Key Derivation Function (KDF).

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9688
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in effect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Housley

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9688

Using SHA3 with the CMS

November 2024

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  ASN.1

1.2.  Terminology

2.  Message Digest Algorithms

3.  Signature Algorithms

3.1.  RSASSA PKCS#1 v1.5 with SHA3

3.2.  ECDSA with SHA3

4.  Message Authentication Codes Using HMAC and SHA3

5.  Key Derivation Functions

5.1.  HKDF with SHA3

5.2.  KMAC128-KDF and KMAC256-KDF

5.3.  KDF2 and KDF3 with SHA3

6.  Security Considerations

7.  IANA Considerations

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

8.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  ASN.1 Module

Acknowledgements

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

2

3

3

3

4

4

5

5

6

6

7

8

8

9

9

9

11

11

17

18

[RFC5652]
The Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS)
or encrypt arbitrary message contents. This specification describes the use of the four one-way
hash functions in the SHA3 family (SHA3-224, SHA3-256, SHA3-384, and SHA3-512)
 with
the CMS. In addition, this specification describes the use of these four one-way hash functions
with the RSASSA PKCS#1 version 1.5 signature algorithm
Signature Algorithm (ECDSA)

 with the CMS signed-data content type.

 is used to digitally sign, digest, authenticate,

 and the Elliptic Curve Digital

[RFC8017]

[SHA3]

[DSS]

Housley

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9688

Using SHA3 with the CMS

November 2024

This document should not be confused with
SHAKE family of SHA3-based extensible output functions with the CMS.

[RFC8702]

, which defines conventions for using the

1.1.  ASN.1

CMS values are generated with ASN.1
Distinguished Encoding Rules (DER)

[X.680]
[X.690]
.

, using the Basic Encoding Rules (BER) and the

1.2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Message Digest Algorithms

One-way hash functions are also referred to as message digest algorithms. This section specifies
the conventions employed by CMS implementations that support SHA3-224, SHA3-256, SHA3-384,
and SHA3-512

[SHA3]
.

Digest algorithm identifiers are located in the SignedData digestAlgorithms field, the SignerInfo
digestAlgorithm field, the DigestedData digestAlgorithm field, and the AuthenticatedData
digestAlgorithm field.

Digest values are located in the DigestedData digest field and the Message Digest authenticated
attribute. In addition, digest values are input to signature algorithms.

SHA3-224, SHA3-256, SHA3-384, and SHA3-512 produce output values with 224, 256, 384, and 512
bits, respectively. The object identifiers for these four one-way hash functions are as follows:

   hashAlgs OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { joint-iso-itu-t(2) country(16)
       us(840) organization(1) gov(101) csor(3) nistAlgorithm(4) 2 }

   id-sha3-224 OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { hashAlgs 7 }

   id-sha3-256 OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { hashAlgs 8 }

   id-sha3-384 OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { hashAlgs 9 }

   id-sha3-512 OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { hashAlgs 10 }

When using the id-sha3-224, id-sha3-s256, id-sha3-384, or id-sha3-512 algorithm identifiers, the
parameters field

 be absent, not NULL but absent.

MUST

Housley

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9688

Using SHA3 with the CMS

November 2024

3.  Signature Algorithms

This section specifies the conventions employed by CMS implementations that support the four
SHA3 one-way hash functions with the RSASSA PKCS#1 v1.5 signature algorithm
 and
the ECDSA

 with the CMS signed-data content type.

[RFC8017]

[DSS]

Signature algorithm identifiers are located in the SignerInfo signatureAlgorithm field of
SignedData. Also, signature algorithm identifiers are located in the SignerInfo
signatureAlgorithm field of countersignature attributes.

Signature values are located in the SignerInfo signature field of SignedData. Also, signature
values are located in the SignerInfo signature field of countersignature attributes.

3.1.  RSASSA PKCS#1 v1.5 with SHA3

The RSASSA PKCS#1 v1.5 is defined in
conjunction with one of the SHA3 one-way hash functions, the object identifiers are:

. When RSASSA PKCS#1 v1.5 is used in

[RFC8017]

   OID ::= OBJECT IDENTIFIER

   sigAlgs OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { joint-iso-itu-t(2) country(16)
       us(840) organization(1) gov(101) csor(3) nistAlgorithm(4) 3 }

   id-rsassa-pkcs1-v1-5-with-sha3-224 OID ::= { sigAlgs 13 }

   id-rsassa-pkcs1-v1-5-with-sha3-256 OID ::= { sigAlgs 14 }

   id-rsassa-pkcs1-v1-5-with-sha3-384 OID ::= { sigAlgs 15 }

   id-rsassa-pkcs1-v1-5-with-sha3-512 OID ::= { sigAlgs 16 }

The algorithm identifier for RSASSA PKCS#1 v1.5 subject public keys in certificates is specified in
[RFC3279]

, and it is repeated here for convenience:

   rsaEncryption OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { iso(1) member-body(2)
       us(840) rsadsi(113549) pkcs(1) pkcs-1(1) 1 }

When the rsaEncryption, id-rsassa-pkcs1-v1-5-with-sha3-224, id-rsassa-pkcs1-v1-5-with-sha3-256,
id-rsassa-pkcs1-v1-5-with-sha3-384, and id-rsassa-pkcs1-v1-5-with-sha3-512 algorithm identifiers
are used, the AlgorithmIdentifier parameters field

 contain NULL.

MUST

When the rsaEncryption algorithm identifier is used, the RSA public key, which is composed of a
modulus and a public exponent,
[RFC3279]
definition of RSAPublicKey is repeated here for convenience:

. The output of this encoding is carried in the certificate subject public key. The

 be encoded using the RSAPublicKey type as specified in

MUST

Housley

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9688

Using SHA3 with the CMS

November 2024

   RSAPublicKey ::= SEQUENCE {
      modulus INTEGER, -- n
      publicExponent INTEGER } -- e

When signing, the RSASSA PKCS#1 v1.5 signature algorithm generates a single value. That value
is used directly as the signature value.

3.2.  ECDSA with SHA3

The ECDSA is defined in
way hash functions, the object identifiers are:

[DSS]

. When the ECDSA is used in conjunction with one of the SHA3 one-

   sigAlgs OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { joint-iso-itu-t(2) country(16)
       us(840) organization(1) gov(101) csor(3) nistAlgorithm(4) 3 }

   id-ecdsa-with-sha3-224 OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { sigAlgs 9 }

   id-ecdsa-with-sha3-256 OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { sigAlgs 10 }

   id-ecdsa-with-sha3-384 OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { sigAlgs 11 }

   id-ecdsa-with-sha3-512 OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { sigAlgs 12 }

When the id-sha3-224, id-sha3-s256, id-sha3-384, or id-sha3-512 algorithm identifier is used, the
parameters field

 be absent, not NULL but absent.

MUST

When the id-ecdsa-with-sha3-224, id-ecdsa-with-sha3-256, id- ecdsa-with-sha3-384, and id-ecdsa-
 be absent, not NULL but
with-sha3-512 algorithm identifiers are used, the parameters field
absent.

MUST

The conventions for ECDSA public keys are as specified in
associated with the ECDSA public key in the signers certificate
the signature.

[RFC5480]
SHALL

. The ECParameters
 apply to the verification of

When signing, the ECDSA algorithm generates two values. These values are commonly referred
 be ASN.1 encoded
to as r and s. To easily transfer these two values as one signature, they
using the ECDSA-Sig-Value defined in

, which is repeated here for convenience:

[RFC3279]

MUST

 ECDSA-Sig-Value ::= SEQUENCE { r INTEGER, s
INTEGER }

4.  Message Authentication Codes Using HMAC and SHA3

This section specifies the conventions employed by CMS implementations that support the
Hashed Message Authentication Code (HMAC)
(MAC).

 with SHA3 message authentication code

[RFC2104]

Housley

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9688

Using SHA3 with the CMS

November 2024

MAC algorithm identifiers are located in the AuthenticatedData macAlgorithm field.

MAC values are located in the AuthenticatedData mac field.

When HMAC is used in conjunction with one of the SHA3 one-way hash functions, the object
identifiers are:

   hashAlgs OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { joint-iso-itu-t(2) country(16)
       us(840) organization(1) gov(101) csor(3) nistAlgorithm(4) 2 }

   id-hmacWithSHA3-224 OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { hashAlgs 13 }

   id-hmacWithSHA3-256 OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { hashAlgs 14 }

   id-hmacWithSHA3-384 OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { hashAlgs 15 }

   id-hmacWithSHA3-512 OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { hashAlgs 16 }

When the id-hmacWithSHA3-224, id-hmacWithSHA3-256, id-hmacWithSHA3-384, and id-
hmacWithSHA3-512 algorithm identifiers are used, the parameters field
NULL but absent.

MUST

 be absent, not

5.  Key Derivation Functions

The CMS KEMRecipientInfo structure
derivation functions are needed.

[RFC9629]

 is one place where algorithm identifiers for key-

5.1.  HKDF with SHA3

This section assigns four algorithm identifiers that can be employed by CMS implementations
[RFC5869]
that support the HMAC-based Extract-and-Expand Key Derivation Function (HKDF)
with the SHA3 family of hash functions.

When HKDF is used in conjunction with one of the SHA3 one-way hash functions, the object
identifiers are:

   id-alg OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { iso(1) member-body(2)
       us(840) rsadsi(113549) pkcs(1) pkcs-9(9) smime(16) 3 }

   id-alg-hkdf-with-sha3-224 OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { id-alg 32 }

   id-alg-hkdf-with-sha3-256 OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { id-alg 33 }

   id-alg-hkdf-with-sha3-384 OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { id-alg 34 }

   id-alg-hkdf-with-sha3-512 OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { id-alg 35 }

Housley

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9688

Using SHA3 with the CMS

November 2024

When id-alg-hkdf-with-sha3-224, id-alg-hkdf-with-sha3-256, id-alg-hkdf-with-sha3-384, or id-alg-
hkdf-with-sha3-512 is used in an algorithm identifier, the parameters field
 be absent, not
NULL but absent.

MUST

5.2.  KMAC128-KDF and KMAC256-KDF

This section specifies the conventions employed by CMS implementations that employ either
KMAC128 or KMAC256 as KDFs as defined in Section 4.4 of

[NIST.SP.800-108r1-upd1]
.

KMAC128 and KMAC256 are specified in
KDFs are defined as follows:

[NIST.SP.800-185]

. The use of KMAC128 and KMAC256 as

KMAC128-KDF is KMAC128(K, X, L, S).

KMAC256-KDF is KMAC256(K, X, L, S).

The parameters to the KMAC128 and KMAC256 functions are:

K

X

L

S

The input key-derivation key. The length of K

MUST

 be less than 22040.

The context, which contains the ASN.1 DER encoding of CMSORIforKEMOtherInfo when the
KDF is used with

[RFC9629]
.

The output length in bits. L

MUST

 be greater than or equal to 0 and

MUST

 be less than 22040.

The optional customization label, such as "KDF" (0x4B4446). The length of S
22040.

MUST

 be less than

The K parameter is known to all authorized parties; it is often the output of a KEM Decap()
operation. The X parameter is assembled from data that is transmitted by the originator. The L
parameter is determined by the size of the output keying material. The S parameter is optional,
and if it is provided by the originator, it is passed in the parameters field of the KDF algorithm
identifier.

When KMAC128-KDF or KMAC256-KDF is used, the object identifiers are:

   hashAlgs OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { joint-iso-itu-t(2) country(16)
       us(840) organization(1) gov(101) csor(3) nistAlgorithm(4) 2 }

   id-kmac128 OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { hashAlgs 21 }

   id-kmac256 OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { hashAlgs 22 }

When id-kmac128 or id-kmac256 is used as part of an algorithm identifier, the parameters field
 be absent when there is no customization label (S). If any value is provided for S, then the
MUST
parameters field

 be present and contain the value of S, encoded as Customization.

MUST

Housley

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9688

Using SHA3 with the CMS

November 2024

   Customization ::= OCTET STRING

5.3.  KDF2 and KDF3 with SHA3

This section specifies the conventions employed by CMS implementations that employ either the
KDF2 or KDF3 functions defined in
[RFC9629]

. The CMS KEMRecipientInfo structure
 is one place where algorithm identifiers for key-derivation functions are needed.

[ANS-X9.44-2007]

The key-derivation function algorithm identifier is an object identifier and optional parameters.
When KDF2 and KDF3 are used, they are identified by the id-kdf-kdf2 and id-kdf-kdf3 object
identifiers, respectively. The key-derivation function algorithm identifier parameters carry a
message digest algorithm identifier, which indicates the hash function that is being employed. To
support SHA3, the key-derivation function algorithm identifier parameters contain an algorithm
identifier from Section 2.

   x9-44 OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { iso(1) identified-organization(3)
       tc68(133) country(16) x9(840) x9Standards(9) x9-44(44) }

   x9-44-components OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { x9-44 components(1) }

   id-kdf-kdf2 OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { x9-44-components kdf2(1) }

   id-kdf-kdf3 OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { x9-44-components kdf3(2) }

6.  Security Considerations

Implementations must protect the signer's private key. Compromise of the signer's private key
permits masquerade.

Implementations must protect the key-derivation key. Compromise of the key-derivation key
permits others to derive the derived keying material, which would result in loss of
confidentiality, integrity, or authentication, depending on the use of the derived keying material.

When more than two parties share the same message-authentication key, data origin
authentication is not assured. Any party that knows the message-authentication key can compute
a valid MAC; therefore, the content could originate from any one of the parties.

Implementations must randomly generate message-authentication keys and one-time values,
such as the a per-message secret number (called the k value) when generating an ECDSA
signature. In addition, the generation of public/private key pairs relies on a random numbers.
The use of inadequate pseudorandom number generators (PRNGs) to generate cryptographic
values can result in little or no security. Instead of brute-force searching the whole key space, an
attacker may find it much easier to reproduce the PRNG environment that produced the keys and
then search the resulting small set of possibilities. The generation of quality random numbers is
difficult.
[DSS]

 offers important guidance in this area, and Appendix 3 of FIPS PUB 186-4

 provides some PRNG techniques.

[RFC4086]

Housley

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9688

Using SHA3 with the CMS

November 2024

Implementers should be aware that cryptographic algorithms become weaker with time. As new
cryptanalysis techniques are developed and computing performance improves, the work factor
to break a particular cryptographic algorithm will reduce. Therefore, cryptographic algorithm
implementations should be modular, allowing new algorithms to be readily inserted. That is,
implementers should be prepared to regularly update the set of algorithms in their
implementations.

7.  IANA Considerations

IANA has assigned one object identifier for the ASN.1 module in Appendix A in the "SMI Security
for S/MIME Module Identifiers (1.2.840.113549.1.9.16.0)" registry

[IANA-MOD]
:

   id-mod-sha3-oids-2023 OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= {
      iso(1) member-body(2) us(840) rsadsi(113549) pkcs(1)
      pkcs-9(9) smime(16) mod(0) 78 }

IANA has assigned four object identifiers for the HKDF using SHA3 algorithm identifiers in the
"SMI Security for S/MIME Algorithms (1.2.840.113549.1.9.16.3)" registry

[IANA-ALG]
:

   id-alg-hkdf-with-sha3-224 OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { id-alg 32 }

   id-alg-hkdf-with-sha3-256 OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { id-alg 33 }

   id-alg-hkdf-with-sha3-384 OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { id-alg 34 }

   id-alg-hkdf-with-sha3-512 OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { id-alg 35 }

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

[ANS-X9.44-2007]

American National Standards Institute "Public Key Cryptography for the
Financial Services Industry -- Key Establishment Using Integer Factorization
Cryptography" ANSI X9.44-2007 (R2017)
standards/ascx9/ansix9442007r2017>

<https://webstore.ansi.org/

, 2017,

,

.

,

[DSS]

National Institute of Standards and Technology "Digital Signature Standard
(DSS)" FIPS PUB 186-5 DOI 10.6028/NIST.FIPS.186-5
nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/FIPS/NIST.FIPS.186-5.pdf>

, 3 February 2023,
.

,

,

,

<https://

[NIST.SP.800-108r1-upd1]

,

Chen, L. "Recommendation for Key Derivation Using Pseudorandom
,

Functions" NIST SP 800-108r1-upd1 DOI 10.6028/NIST.SP.800-108r1-upd1
,
February 2024,
800-108r1-upd1.pdf>

<https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.

, 2

.

Housley

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9688

Using SHA3 with the CMS

November 2024

[NIST.SP.800-185]

, and

Kelsey, J. Chang, S.
,

R. Perlner "SHA-3 Derived Functions: cSHAKE,
,
KMAC, TupleHash and ParallelHash" NIST SP 800-185 DOI 10.6028/NIST.SP.
,
800-185
NIST.SP.800-185.pdf>

<https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/

, December 2016,

,

.

[RFC2104]

[RFC2119]

[RFC3279]

[RFC5480]

[RFC5652]

[RFC5869]

[RFC5912]

[RFC8017]

[RFC8174]

[SHA3]

[X.680]

,

Krawczyk, H. Bellare, M.
Authentication" RFC 2104 DOI 10.17487/RFC2104
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2104>

, and
,

.

R. Canetti "HMAC: Keyed-Hashing for Message

,

, February 1997,

<https://

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

, and

Bassham, L. Polk, W.
Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certificate and Certificate Revocation
List (CRL) Profile" RFC 3279 DOI 10.17487/RFC3279
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3279>

R. Housley "Algorithms and Identifiers for the

, April 2002,

<https://

,

,

,

.

,

Turner, S. Brown, D. Yiu, K. Housley, R.
Cryptography Subject Public Key Information" RFC 5480 DOI 10.17487/RFC5480
,
March 2009,

T. Polk "Elliptic Curve
,
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5480>

, and

,

,

,

.

Housley, R. "Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS)" STD 70 RFC 5652 DOI
10.17487/RFC5652

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5652>

, September 2009,

,

,

,

,

.

Krawczyk, H.
Function (HKDF)" RFC 5869 DOI 10.17487/RFC5869
editor.org/info/rfc5869>

P. Eronen "HMAC-based Extract-and-Expand Key Derivation
 and
,

, May 2010,

<https://www.rfc-

,
,

.

 and

J. Schaad "New ASN.1 Modules for the Public Key

Hoffman, P.
Infrastructure Using X.509 (PKIX)" RFC 5912 DOI 10.17487/RFC5912
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5912>

,

,

.

, June 2010,

,

Moriarty, K., Ed. Kaliski, B. Jonsson, J.
Cryptography Specifications Version 2.2" RFC 8017 DOI 10.17487/RFC8017
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8017>
November 2016,

A. Rusch "PKCS #1: RSA

, and
,

,

,

,

.

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

National Institute of Standards and Technology "SHA-3 Standard: Permutation-
Based Hash and Extendable-Output Functions" NIST FIPS 202 DOI 10.6028/
NIST.FIPS.202
<http://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/FIPS/NIST.FIPS.
202.pdf>

, August 2015,

,
,

,

.

,

ITU-T "Information technology - Abstract Syntax Notation One (ASN.1):
Specification of basic notation" ITU-T Recommendation X.680 ISO/IEC
8824-1:2021

<https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.680-202102-I/en>

, February 2021,

,

,

.

Housley

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9688

Using SHA3 with the CMS

November 2024

[X.690]

,

ITU-T "Information technology - ASN.1 encoding rules: Specification of Basic
Encoding Rules (BER), Canonical Encoding Rules (CER) and Distinguished
Encoding Rules (DER)" ITU-T Recommendation X.690 ISO/IEC 8825-1:2021
February 2021,

<https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.690-202102-I/en>

,

.

,

,

8.2.  Informative References

[IANA-ALG]

[IANA-MOD]

[RFC4086]

[RFC8702]

[RFC9629]

,

IANA "SMI Security for S/MIME Algorithms (1.2.840.113549.1.9.16.3)" <https://
www.iana.org/assignments/smi-numbers/>

.

,

,

IANA "SMI Security for S/MIME Module Identifier (1.2.840.113549.1.9.16.0)"
<https://www.iana.org/assignments/smi-numbers/>

.

,

,

Eastlake 3rd, D. Schiller, J.
Security" BCP 106 RFC 4086 DOI 10.17487/RFC4086
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4086>

, and
,

,

,

.

S. Crocker "Randomness Requirements for

,

, June 2005,

<https://

 and

Kampanakis, P.
Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS)" RFC 8702 DOI 10.17487/RFC8702
2020,

Q. Dang "Use of the SHAKE One-Way Hash Functions in the
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8702>

, January

.

,

,

,

Housley, R. Gray, J.
Algorithms in the Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS)" RFC 9629 DOI
10.17487/RFC9629

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9629>

T. Okubo "Using Key Encapsulation Mechanism (KEM)

, August 2024,

, and

.

,

,

,

Appendix A.  ASN.1 Module

This section contains the ASN.1 module for the algorithm identifiers using the SHA3 family of
hash functions
[RFC5912]
.

. This module imports types from other ASN.1 modules that are defined in

[SHA3]

<CODE BEGINS>
   SHA3-OIDs-2023
     { iso(1) member-body(2) us(840) rsadsi(113549) pkcs(1) pkcs-9(9)
       smime(16) modules(0) id-mod-sha3-oids-2023(78) }

   DEFINITIONS IMPLICIT TAGS ::=
   BEGIN

   EXPORTS ALL;

   IMPORTS

     AlgorithmIdentifier{}, DIGEST-ALGORITHM, SIGNATURE-ALGORITHM,
     KEY-DERIVATION, MAC-ALGORITHM
     FROM AlgorithmInformation-2009  -- [RFC5912]
       { iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1)
         security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) id-mod(0)
         id-mod-algorithmInformation-02(58) }

    mda-sha1, pk-rsa, pk-ec, ECDSA-Sig-Value

Housley

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9688

Using SHA3 with the CMS

November 2024

    FROM PKIXAlgs-2009  -- [RFC5912]
      { iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1)
        security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) id-mod(0)
        id-mod-pkix1-algorithms2008-02(56) }

    mda-sha224, mda-sha256, mda-sha384, mda-sha512
    FROM PKIX1-PSS-OAEP-Algorithms-2009  -- [RFC5912]
      { iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1)
        security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) id-mod(0)
        id-mod-pkix1-rsa-pkalgs-02(54) } ;

   --
   -- Alias
   --

   OID ::= OBJECT IDENTIFIER

   --
   -- Object Identifier Arcs
   --

   nistAlgorithm OID ::= { joint-iso-itu-t(2) country(16)
       us(840) organization(1) gov(101) csor(3) 4 }

   hashAlgs OID ::= { nistAlgorithm 2 }

   sigAlgs OID ::= { nistAlgorithm 3 }

   x9-44 OID ::= { iso(1) identified-organization(3) tc68(133)
       country(16) x9(840) x9Standards(9) x9-44(44) }

   x9-44-components OID ::= { x9-44 components(1) }

   id-alg OID ::= { iso(1) member-body(2) us(840)
       rsadsi(113549) pkcs(1) pkcs-9(9) smime(16) 3 }

   --
   -- Message Digest Algorithms
   --

   id-sha3-224 OID ::= { hashAlgs 7 }

   id-sha3-256 OID ::= { hashAlgs 8 }

   id-sha3-384 OID ::= { hashAlgs 9 }

   id-sha3-512 OID ::= { hashAlgs 10 }

   mda-sha3-224 DIGEST-ALGORITHM ::= {
       IDENTIFIER id-sha3-224
       PARAMS ARE absent }

   mda-sha3-256 DIGEST-ALGORITHM ::= {
       IDENTIFIER id-sha3-256
       PARAMS ARE absent }

Housley

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9688

Using SHA3 with the CMS

November 2024

   mda-sha3-384 DIGEST-ALGORITHM ::= {
       IDENTIFIER id-sha3-384
       PARAMS ARE absent }

   mda-sha3-512 DIGEST-ALGORITHM ::= {
       IDENTIFIER id-sha3-512
       PARAMS ARE absent }

   HashAlgorithm ::= AlgorithmIdentifier{ DIGEST-ALGORITHM,
                         { HashAlgorithms } }

   HashAlgorithms DIGEST-ALGORITHM ::=  {
       mda-sha3-224 |
       mda-sha3-256 |
       mda-sha3-384 |
       mda-sha3-512,
       ... }

   --
   -- Signature Algorithms
   --

   id-rsassa-pkcs1-v1-5-with-sha3-224 OID ::= { sigAlgs 13 }

   id-rsassa-pkcs1-v1-5-with-sha3-256 OID ::= { sigAlgs 14 }

   id-rsassa-pkcs1-v1-5-with-sha3-384 OID ::= { sigAlgs 15 }

   id-rsassa-pkcs1-v1-5-with-sha3-512 OID ::= { sigAlgs 16 }

   id-ecdsa-with-sha3-224 OID ::= { sigAlgs 9 }

   id-ecdsa-with-sha3-256 OID ::= { sigAlgs 10 }

   id-ecdsa-with-sha3-384 OID ::= { sigAlgs 11 }

   id-ecdsa-with-sha3-512 OID ::= { sigAlgs 12 }

   sa-rsaWithSHA3-224 SIGNATURE-ALGORITHM ::= {
       IDENTIFIER id-rsassa-pkcs1-v1-5-with-sha3-224
       PARAMS TYPE NULL ARE required
       HASHES { mda-sha3-224 }
       PUBLIC-KEYS { pk-rsa }
       SMIME-CAPS {IDENTIFIED BY
           id-rsassa-pkcs1-v1-5-with-sha3-224 } }

   sa-rsaWithSHA3-256 SIGNATURE-ALGORITHM ::= {
       IDENTIFIER id-rsassa-pkcs1-v1-5-with-sha3-256
       PARAMS TYPE NULL ARE required
       HASHES { mda-sha3-256 }
       PUBLIC-KEYS { pk-rsa }
       SMIME-CAPS {IDENTIFIED BY
           id-rsassa-pkcs1-v1-5-with-sha3-256 } }

   sa-rsaWithSHA3-384 SIGNATURE-ALGORITHM ::= {
       IDENTIFIER id-rsassa-pkcs1-v1-5-with-sha3-384

Housley

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9688

Using SHA3 with the CMS

November 2024

       PARAMS TYPE NULL ARE required
       HASHES { mda-sha3-384 }
       PUBLIC-KEYS { pk-rsa }
       SMIME-CAPS {IDENTIFIED BY
           id-rsassa-pkcs1-v1-5-with-sha3-384 } }

   sa-rsaWithSHA3-512 SIGNATURE-ALGORITHM ::= {
       IDENTIFIER id-rsassa-pkcs1-v1-5-with-sha3-512
       PARAMS TYPE NULL ARE required
       HASHES { mda-sha3-512 }
       PUBLIC-KEYS { pk-rsa }
       SMIME-CAPS {IDENTIFIED BY
           id-rsassa-pkcs1-v1-5-with-sha3-512 } }

   sa-ecdsaWithSHA3-224 SIGNATURE-ALGORITHM ::= {
       IDENTIFIER id-ecdsa-with-sha3-224
       VALUE ECDSA-Sig-Value
       PARAMS ARE absent
       HASHES { mda-sha3-224 }
       PUBLIC-KEYS { pk-ec }
       SMIME-CAPS {IDENTIFIED BY id-ecdsa-with-sha3-224 } }

   sa-ecdsaWithSHA3-256 SIGNATURE-ALGORITHM ::= {
       IDENTIFIER id-ecdsa-with-sha3-256
       VALUE ECDSA-Sig-Value
       PARAMS ARE absent
       HASHES { mda-sha3-256 }
       PUBLIC-KEYS { pk-ec }
       SMIME-CAPS {IDENTIFIED BY id-ecdsa-with-sha3-256 } }

   sa-ecdsaWithSHA3-384 SIGNATURE-ALGORITHM ::= {
       IDENTIFIER id-ecdsa-with-sha3-384
       VALUE ECDSA-Sig-Value
       PARAMS ARE absent
       HASHES { mda-sha3-384 }
       PUBLIC-KEYS { pk-ec }
       SMIME-CAPS {IDENTIFIED BY id-ecdsa-with-sha3-384 } }

   sa-ecdsaWithSHA3-512 SIGNATURE-ALGORITHM ::= {
       IDENTIFIER id-ecdsa-with-sha3-512
       VALUE ECDSA-Sig-Value
       PARAMS ARE absent
       HASHES { mda-sha3-512 }
       PUBLIC-KEYS { pk-ec }
       SMIME-CAPS {IDENTIFIED BY id-ecdsa-with-sha3-512 } }

   SignatureAlg ::= AlgorithmIdentifier{ SIGNATURE-ALGORITHM,
                         { SignatureAlgs } }

   SignatureAlgs SIGNATURE-ALGORITHM ::= {
       sa-rsaWithSHA3-224 |
       sa-rsaWithSHA3-256 |
       sa-rsaWithSHA3-384 |
       sa-rsaWithSHA3-512 |
       sa-ecdsaWithSHA3-224 |
       sa-ecdsaWithSHA3-256 |
       sa-ecdsaWithSHA3-384 |
       sa-ecdsaWithSHA3-512,

Housley

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9688

Using SHA3 with the CMS

November 2024

       ... }

   --
   -- Message Authentication Codes
   --

   id-hmacWithSHA3-224 OID ::= { hashAlgs 13 }

   id-hmacWithSHA3-256 OID ::= { hashAlgs 14 }

   id-hmacWithSHA3-384 OID ::= { hashAlgs 15 }

   id-hmacWithSHA3-512 OID ::= { hashAlgs 16 }

   maca-hmacWithSHA3-224 MAC-ALGORITHM ::= {
       IDENTIFIER id-hmacWithSHA3-224
       PARAMS ARE absent
       IS-KEYED-MAC TRUE
       SMIME-CAPS {IDENTIFIED BY id-hmacWithSHA3-224 } }

   maca-hmacWithSHA3-256 MAC-ALGORITHM ::= {
       IDENTIFIER id-hmacWithSHA3-256
       PARAMS ARE absent
       IS-KEYED-MAC TRUE
       SMIME-CAPS {IDENTIFIED BY id-hmacWithSHA3-256 } }

   maca-hmacWithSHA3-384 MAC-ALGORITHM ::= {
       IDENTIFIER id-hmacWithSHA3-384
       PARAMS ARE absent
       IS-KEYED-MAC TRUE
       SMIME-CAPS {IDENTIFIED BY id-hmacWithSHA3-384 } }

   maca-hmacWithSHA3-512 MAC-ALGORITHM ::= {
       IDENTIFIER id-hmacWithSHA3-512
       PARAMS ARE absent
       IS-KEYED-MAC TRUE
       SMIME-CAPS {IDENTIFIED BY id-hmacWithSHA3-512 } }

   MACAlgorithm ::= AlgorithmIdentifier{ MAC-ALGORITHM,
                       { MACAlgorithms } }

   MACAlgorithms MAC-ALGORITHM ::= {
       maca-hmacWithSHA3-224 |
       maca-hmacWithSHA3-256 |
       maca-hmacWithSHA3-384 |
       maca-hmacWithSHA3-512,
       ... }

   --
   -- Key Derivation Algorithms
   --

   id-alg-hkdf-with-sha3-224 OID ::= { id-alg 32 }

   id-alg-hkdf-with-sha3-256 OID ::= { id-alg 33 }

Housley

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9688

Using SHA3 with the CMS

November 2024

   id-alg-hkdf-with-sha3-384 OID ::= { id-alg 34 }

   id-alg-hkdf-with-sha3-512 OID ::= { id-alg 35 }

   id-kmac128 OID ::= { hashAlgs 21 }

   id-kmac256  OID ::= { hashAlgs 22 }

   id-kdf-kdf2 OID ::= { x9-44-components kdf2(1) }

   id-kdf-kdf3 OID ::= { x9-44-components kdf3(2) }

   kda-hkdf-with-sha3-224 KEY-DERIVATION ::= {
       IDENTIFIER id-alg-hkdf-with-sha3-224
       PARAMS ARE absent
       -- No S/MIME caps defined -- }

   kda-hkdf-with-sha3-256 KEY-DERIVATION ::= {
       IDENTIFIER id-alg-hkdf-with-sha3-256
       PARAMS ARE absent
       -- No S/MIME caps defined -- }

   kda-hkdf-with-sha3-384 KEY-DERIVATION ::= {
       IDENTIFIER id-alg-hkdf-with-sha3-384
       PARAMS ARE absent
       -- No S/MIME caps defined -- }

   kda-hkdf-with-sha3-512 KEY-DERIVATION ::= {
       IDENTIFIER id-alg-hkdf-with-sha3-512
       PARAMS ARE absent
       -- No S/MIME caps defined -- }

   kda-kmac128 KEY-DERIVATION ::= {
       IDENTIFIER id-kmac128
       PARAMS TYPE Customization ARE optional
       -- PARAMS are absent when Customization is ''H --
       -- No S/MIME caps defined -- }

   kda-kmac256 KEY-DERIVATION ::= {
       IDENTIFIER id-kmac256
       PARAMS TYPE Customization ARE optional
       -- PARAMS are absent when Customization is ''H --
       -- No S/MIME caps defined -- }

   kda-kdf2 KEY-DERIVATION ::= {
       IDENTIFIER id-kdf-kdf2
       PARAMS TYPE KDF2-HashFunction ARE required
       -- No S/MIME caps defined -- }

   kda-kdf3 KEY-DERIVATION ::= {
       IDENTIFIER id-kdf-kdf3
       PARAMS TYPE KDF3-HashFunction ARE required
       -- No S/MIME caps defined -- }

   Customization ::= OCTET STRING

   KDF2-HashFunction ::= AlgorithmIdentifier { DIGEST-ALGORITHM,
                             { KDF2-HashFunctions } }

Housley

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9688

Using SHA3 with the CMS

November 2024

   KDF2-HashFunctions DIGEST-ALGORITHM ::= {
      X9-HashFunctions,
      ... }

   KDF3-HashFunction ::= AlgorithmIdentifier { DIGEST-ALGORITHM,
                             { KDF3-HashFunctions } }

   KDF3-HashFunctions DIGEST-ALGORITHM ::= {
      X9-HashFunctions,
      ... }

   X9-HashFunctions DIGEST-ALGORITHM ::= {
       mda-sha1 |
       mda-sha224 |
       mda-sha256 |
       mda-sha384 |
       mda-sha512 |
       mda-sha3-224 |
       mda-sha3-256 |
       mda-sha3-384 |
       mda-sha3-512,
       ... }

   KeyDerivationFunction ::=  AlgorithmIdentifier{ KEY-DERIVATION,
                                  { KeyDevAlgs } }

   KeyDevAlgs KEY-DERIVATION ::= {
       kda-hkdf-with-sha3-224 |
       kda-hkdf-with-sha3-256 |
       kda-hkdf-with-sha3-384 |
       kda-hkdf-with-sha3-512 |
       kda-kmac128 |
       kda-kmac256 |
       kda-kdf2 |
       kda-kdf3,
       ... }

   END

<CODE ENDS>

Acknowledgements

Thanks to

Daniel Van Geest

 and

Sean Turner

 for their careful review and thoughtful comments.

Thanks to
for KMAC128 and KMAC256.

Sara Kerman Quynh Dang
,

, and

David Cooper

 for getting the object identifiers assigned

Housley

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9688

Using SHA3 with the CMS

November 2024

Author's Address

Russ Housley
Vigil Security, LLC
Herndon VA
,
United States of America
Email:

housley@vigilsec.com

Housley

Standards Track

Page 18

