Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9466
Standards Track
October 2023
2070-1721
Y. Liu,
 Ed.
China Mobile

T. Eckert,
Futurewei

 Ed.

M. McBride
Futurewei

Z. Zhang
ZTE Corporation

RFC 9466
PIM Assert Message Packing

Abstract

When PIM Sparse Mode (PIM-SM), including PIM Source-Specific Multicast (PIM-SSM), is used in
shared LAN networks, there is often more than one upstream router. This can lead to duplicate
IP multicast packets being forwarded by these PIM routers. PIM Assert messages are used to elect
a single forwarder for each IP multicast traffic flow between these routers.

This document defines a mechanism to send and receive information for multiple IP multicast
flows in a single PackedAssert message. This optimization reduces the total number of PIM
packets on the LAN and can therefore speed up the election of the single forwarder, reducing the
number of duplicate IP multicast packets incurred.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9466
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Liu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9466

PIM Assert Packing

October 2023

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

1.2.  Terminology

2.  Problem Statement

3.  Specification

3.1.  PIM Packed Assert Capability Hello Option

3.2.  Assert Packing Message Formats

3.3.  PackedAssert Mechanism

3.3.1.  Sending PackedAssert Messages

3.3.1.1.  Handling of Reception-Triggered Assert Records

3.3.1.2.  Handling of Timer Expiry-Triggered Assert Records

3.3.1.3.  Beneficial Delay in Sending PackedAssert Messages

3.3.1.4.  Handling Assert/PackedAssert Message Loss

3.3.1.5.  Optimal Degree of Assert Record Packing

3.3.2.  Receiving PackedAssert Messages

4.  Packet Formats

4.1.  PIM Packed Assert Capability Hello Option

4.2.  Assert Message Format

4.3.  Simple PackedAssert Message Format

4.4.  Aggregated PackedAssert Message Format

4.4.1.  Source Aggregated Assert Record

4.4.2.  RP Aggregated Assert Record

5.  IANA Considerations

6.  Security Considerations

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

3

3

3

4

4

5

5

6

6

7

7

8

8

8

9

9

9

10

10

12

14

15

17

17

17

17

Liu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9466

PIM Assert Packing

October 2023

7.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Use Case Examples

A.1.  Enterprise Network

A.2.  Video Surveillance

A.3.  Financial Services

A.4.  IPTV Broadcast Video

A.5.  MVPN MDT

A.6.  Special L2 Services

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

18

18

19

19

19

19

19

20

20

20

When PIM-SM is used in shared LAN networks, there is typically more than one upstream router.
When duplicate data packets appear on the LAN from different upstream routers, assert packets
are sent from these routers to elect a single forwarder according to
messages are sent periodically to keep the Assert state. The PIM Assert message carries
information about a single multicast source and group, along with the corresponding Metric and
Metric Preference of the route towards the source or PIM Rendezvous Point (RP).

. The PIM Assert

[RFC7761]

This document defines a mechanism to encode the information of multiple PIM Assert messages
into a single PackedAssert message. This allows sending and receiving information for multiple
IP multicast flows in a single PackedAssert message without changing the PIM Assert state
machinery. It reduces the total number of PIM packets on the LAN and can therefore speed up
the election of the single forwarder, reducing the number of duplicate IP multicast packets. This
can be particularly helpful when there is traffic for a large number of multicast groups or SSM
channels and PIM packet processing performance of the routers is slow.

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

1.2.  Terminology

The reader is expected to be familiar with the terminology of
abbreviations repeated in this document.

[RFC7761]

. The following lists the

Liu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9466

PIM Assert Packing

October 2023

AT:

Assert Timer

DR:

Designated Router

RP:

Rendezvous Point

RPF:

Reverse Path Forwarding

RPT:

RP Tree

SPT:

Shortest Path Tree

2.  Problem Statement

PIM Asserts occur in many deployments. See Appendix A for explicit examples and explanations
of why it is often not possible to avoid.

PIM Assert state depends mainly on the network topology. As long as there is a Layer 2 (L2)
network with more than two PIM routers, there may be multiple upstream routers, which can
cause duplicate multicast traffic to be forwarded and assert processing to occur.

As the multicast services become widely deployed, the number of multicast entries increases,
and a large number of Assert messages may be sent in a very short period when multicast data
packets trigger PIM assert processing in the shared LAN networks. The PIM routers need to
process a large number of small PIM assert packets in a very short time. As a result, the device
load is very large. The assert packet may not be processed in time or even discarded, thus
extending the time of traffic duplication in the network.

The PIM Assert mechanism can only be avoided by designing the network to be without transit
subnets with multiple upstream routers. For example, an L2 ring between routers can sometimes
be reconfigured to be a ring of point-to-point subnets connected by the routers. However, these
Layer 2 (L2) and Layer 3 (L3) topology changes are undesirable when they are only done to
enable IP multicast with PIM because they increase the cost of introducing IP multicast with PIM.

These designs are also not feasible when specific L2 technologies are needed. For example,
various L2 technologies for rings provide sub-50 msec failover mechanisms, something not
possible equally with a ring composed from L3 subnets. Likewise, IEEE Time-Sensitive
Networking mechanisms would require an L2 topology that cannot simply be replaced by an L3
topology. L2 sub-topologies can also significantly reduce the cost of deployment.

3.  Specification

This document defines three elements in support of PIM assert packing:

1.

The PIM Packed Assert Capability Hello Option

2.

The encoding of PackedAssert messages

3.

How to send and receive PackedAssert messages

Liu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9466

PIM Assert Packing

October 2023

3.1.  PIM Packed Assert Capability Hello Option

The PIM Packed Assert Capability Hello Option (Section 4.1) is used to announce support for the
assert packing mechanisms specified in this document. PackedAssert messages (Section 3.2)
 be used unless all PIM routers in the same subnet announce this option.
MUST NOT

3.2.  Assert Packing Message Formats

The PIM Assert message, as defined in
(*,G) or (S,G) assert using the following information elements: Rendezvous Point Tree flag (R),
Source Address, Group Address, Metric, and Metric Preference. This document calls this
information an "assert record".

Section 4.9.6 of [RFC7761]

, describes the parameters of a

This document introduces two new PIM Assert message encodings through the allocation and use
of two flags in the PIM Assert message header
flags.

: the Packed (P) and the Aggregated (A)

[RFC9436]

If P=0, the message is a (non-packed) PIM Assert message as specified in
4.2. In this case, the A flag

 be set to 0 and

 be ignored on receipt.

MUST

MUST

[RFC7761]

. See Section

If P=1, then the message is called a "PackedAssert message", and the type and hence encoding
format of the payload are determined by the A flag.

If A=0, then the message body is a sequence of assert records. This is called a "Simple
PackedAssert message". See Section 4.3.

If A=1, then the message body is a sequence of aggregated assert records. This is called an
"Aggregated PackedAssert message". See Section 4.4.

Two aggregated assert record types are specified.

The "Source Aggregated Assert Record" (see Section 4.4.1) encodes one (common) Source Address,
Metric, and Metric Preference as well as a list of one or more Group Addresses. Source
Aggregated Assert Records provide a more compact encoding than the Simple PackedAssert
message format when multiple (S,G) flows share the same source S. A single Source Aggregated
Assert Record with n Group Addresses represents the information of assert records for (S,G1)...
(S,Gn).

The "RP Aggregated Assert Record" (see Section 4.4.2) encodes one common Metric and Metric
Preference as well as a list of "Group Records", each of which encodes a Group Address and a list
of zero or more Source Addresses with a count. This is called an "RP Aggregated Assert Record",
because with standard RPF according to
will have the same Metric and Metric Preference.

, all the Group Addresses that use the same RP

[RFC7761]

Liu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9466

PIM Assert Packing

October 2023

RP Aggregation Assert Records provide a more compact encoding than the Simple PackedAssert
message format for (*,G) flows. The Source Address is optionally used in the assert procedures in
[RFC7761]
 to indicate the source(s) that triggered the assert; otherwise, the Source Address is set
to 0 in the assert record.

Both Source Aggregated Assert Records and RP Aggregated Assert Records also include the R flag,
which maintains its semantics from
Aggregated Assert Records have R=0, as (S,G) assert records do in
Assert Records have R=1, as (*,G) assert records do in

 but also distinguishes the encodings. Source
. RP Aggregated

[RFC7761]
.

[RFC7761]

[RFC7761]

3.3.  PackedAssert Mechanism

PackedAsserts do not change the PIM Assert state machine specification
sending and receiving of PackedAssert messages, as specified in the following subsections, are
logically new packetization options for assert records in addition to the (non-packed) Assert
. There is no change to the assert record information elements transmitted or
message
their semantics. They are just transmitted in fewer but larger packets, and a fewer total number
of bytes is used to encode the information elements. As a result, PIM routers should be able to
send and receive assert records faster and/or with less processing overhead.

[RFC7761]

[RFC7761]

. Instead,

3.3.1.  Sending PackedAssert Messages

When using assert packing, the regular Assert message encoding
still allowed to be sent. Routers are free to choose which PackedAssert message format they send
-- simple (Section 4.3) and/or aggregated (Section 4.4).

 with A=0 and P=0 is

[RFC7761]

•

When any PIM routers on the LAN have not signaled support for assert packing,
implementations
condition.

 only send Asserts and

MUST NOT

MUST

 send PackedAsserts under any

•

The protocol or system conditions for which an implementation sends PackedAsserts instead
of Asserts are out of scope for this specification. Protocol conditions include protocol triggers
such as data-triggered asserts or Assert Timer (AT) expiry-triggered asserts, and system
conditions include high or low load or control plane packet reception rates.

•

Implementations are expected to specify in documentation and/or management interfaces
(such as a YANG data model) which PackedAssert message formats they can send and under
which conditions they will send them.

•

Implementations
model) how many Assert and PackedAssert messages were sent/received and how many
assert records were sent/received.

 be able to indicate to the operator (such as through a YANG data

SHOULD

•

A configuration option
implementations
omit this configuration option.

[RFC7761]

SHOULD

 be available to disable PackedAssert operations. PIM-SM
MAY

 that introduce support for assert packing from day one

When a PIM router has an assert record ready to send according to
following functions:

[RFC7761]

, it calls one of the

•

send Assert(S,G) / send Assert(*,G) (

[RFC7761], Section 4.2

)

Liu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9466

PIM Assert Packing

October 2023

•

send Assert(S,G) / send AssertCancel(S,G) (

[RFC7761], Section 4.6.1

)

•

send Assert(*,G) / send AssertCancel(*,G) (

[RFC7761], Section 4.6.2

)

•

send Assert(S,G) (

[RFC7761], Section 4.8.2

)

If sending of PackedAsserts is possible on the network, instead of sending an Assert message with
an assert record, any of these calls
the assert record and continuing with further processing for other flows, which may result in
additional assert records.

 instead result in the PIM implementation remembering

MAY

MUST

PIM
them for sending according to the considerations in the following subsections.

 then create PackedAssert messages from the remembered assert records and schedule

3.3.1.1.  Handling of Reception-Triggered Assert Records

Avoiding additional delay because of assert packing compared to immediately scheduling Assert
messages is most critical for assert records that are triggered by reception of data or reception of
asserts against which the router is in the "I am Assert Winner" state. In these cases, the router
SHOULD
possible to minimize the time in which duplicate IP multicast packets can occur.

 send out an Assert or PackedAssert message containing this assert record as soon as

To avoid additional delay in this case, the router should employ appropriate assert packing and
scheduling mechanisms, as explained here.

Asserts/PackedAsserts created from reception-triggered assert records should be scheduled for
serialization with a higher priority than those created because of other protocol or system
conditions. They should also bypass other PIM messages that can create significant bursts, such
as PIM join/prune messages.

When there are no reception-triggered Assert/PackedAssert messages currently being serialized
on the interface or scheduled to be sent, the router should immediately generate and schedule an
Assert or PackedAssert message without further assert packing.

If one or more reception-triggered Assert/PackedAssert messages are already serializing or are
scheduled to be serialized on the outgoing interface, then the router can use the time until the
last of those messages has finished serializing for PIM processing of further conditions. This may
result in additional reception-triggered assert records and the packing of these assert records
without introducing additional delay.

3.3.1.2.  Handling of Timer Expiry-Triggered Assert Records

Asserts triggered by expiry of the AT on an assert winner are not time-critical because they can
be scheduled in advance and because the Assert_Override_Interval parameter
creates a 3-second window in which such assert records can be sent, received, and processed
before an assert loser's state expires and duplicate IP multicast packets could occur.

[RFC7761]

 already

Liu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9466

PIM Assert Packing

October 2023

An example mechanism to allow packing of AT expiry-triggered assert records on assert winners
is to round the AT to an appropriate granularity such as 100 msec. This will cause the AT for
multiple (S,G) and/or (*,G) states to expire at the same time, thus allowing them to be easily
packed without changes to the Assert state machinery.

AssertCancel messages have assert records with an infinite metric and can use assert packing
like any other Assert. They are sent on Override Timer (OT) expiry and can be packed, for
example, with the same considerations as AT expiry-triggered assert records.

3.3.1.3.  Beneficial Delay in Sending PackedAssert Messages

Delay in sending PackedAsserts beyond what was discussed in prior subsections can still be
beneficial when it causes the overall number of possible duplicate IP multicast packets to
decrease in a situation with a large number of (S,G) and/or (*,G), compared to the situation where
an implementation only sends Assert messages.

This delay can be used in implementations because it cannot support the more advanced
mechanisms described above, and this longer delay can be achieved by some simpler
mechanisms (such as only periodic generation of PackedAsserts) and still achieves an overall
reduction in duplicate IP multicast packets compared to sending only Asserts.

3.3.1.4.  Handling Assert/PackedAssert Message Loss

When Asserts are sent, a single packet loss will result only in continued or new duplicates from a
single IP multicast flow. Loss of a (non-AssertCancel) PackedAssert impacts duplicates for all
flows packed into the PackedAssert and may result in the need for resending more than one
Assert/PackedAssert, because of the possible inability to pack the assert records in this condition.
Therefore, routers
 support mechanisms that allow PackedAsserts and Asserts to be sent
 such as Expedited
with an appropriate Differentiated Services Code Point (DSCP)
Forwarding (EF) to minimize their loss, especially when duplicate IP multicast packets could
cause congestion and loss.

[RFC2475]

SHOULD

MAY

 support a configurable option for sending PackedAssert messages twice in short

Routers
order (such as 50 msec apart) to overcome possible loss, but only when the following two
conditions are met.

1.

The total size of the two PackedAsserts is less than the total size of equivalent Assert
messages.

2.

The condition of the assert record flows in the PackedAssert is such that the router can
expect that their reception by PIM routers will not trigger Assert/PackedAsserts replies. This
condition is true, for example, when sending an assert record while becoming or being
assert winner (Action A1/A3 in

[RFC7761]

).

3.3.1.5.  Optimal Degree of Assert Record Packing

The optimal target packing size will vary depending on factors including implementation
characteristics and the required operating scale. At some point, as the target packing size is
varied from the size of a single non-packed Assert to the MTU size, a size can be expected to be

Liu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9466

PIM Assert Packing

October 2023

found where the router can achieve the required operating scale of (S,G) and (*,G) flows with
minimum duplicates. Beyond this size, a further increase in the target packing size would not
produce further benefits but might introduce possible negative effects such as the incurrence of
more duplicates on loss.

For example, in some router implementations, the total number of packets that a control plane
function such as PIM can send/receive per unit of time is a more limiting factor than the total
amount of data across these packets. As soon as the packet size is large enough for the maximum
possible payload throughput, increasing the packet size any further may still reduce the
processing overhead of the router but may increase latency incurred in creating the packet in a
way that may increase duplicates compared to smaller packets.

3.3.2.  Receiving PackedAssert Messages

Upon reception of a PackedAssert message, the PIM router logically converts its payload into a
sequence of assert records that are then processed as if an equivalent sequence of Assert
messages were received according to

[RFC7761]
.

4.  Packet Formats

This section describes the format of new PIM extensions introduced by this document.

4.1.  PIM Packed Assert Capability Hello Option

The PIM Packed Assert Capability Hello Option is a new option for PIM Hello messages according
to

Section 4.9.2 of [RFC7761]
.

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|      OptionType = 40          |      OptionLength = 0         |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 1: PIM Packed Assert Capability Hello Option

OptionType 40 (Packed Assert Capability):

Indicates support for the ability to receive and process all the PackedAssert encodings defined
in this document.

OptionLength 0:

The Packet Assert Capability has no OptionValue.

Liu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9466

PIM Assert Packing

October 2023

4.2.  Assert Message Format

Figure 2 shows a PIM Assert message as specified in
Group and Encoded-Unicast address formats are specified in
and IPv6.

Section 4.9.6 of [RFC7761]

. The Encoded-

Section 4.9.1 of [RFC7761]

 for IPv4

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|PIM Ver| Type  |7 6 5 4 3 2|A|P|           Checksum            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|              Group Address (Encoded-Group format)             |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|            Source Address (Encoded-Unicast format)            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|R|                      Metric Preference                      |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                             Metric                            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 2: Assert Message Format

This common header shows the "7 6 5 4 3 2" flag bits (as defined in
the location of the P and A flags (as described in Section 5). As specified in Section 3.2, both flags
in a (non-packed) PIM Assert message are required to be set to 0.

Section 4 of [RFC9436]

) and

4.3.  Simple PackedAssert Message Format

Liu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9466

PIM Assert Packing

October 2023

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|PIM Ver| Type  |7 6 5 4 3 2|A|P|           Checksum            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|    Zero       |                     Reserved                  |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                                                               |
.                                                               .
.                        Assert Record [1]                      .
.                                                               .
|                                                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                                                               |
.                                                               .
.                        Assert Record [2]                      .
.                                                               .
|                                                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                               .                               |
.                               .                               .
|                               .                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                                                               |
.                                                               .
.                        Assert Record [M]                      .
.                                                               .
|                                                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 3: Simple PackedAssert Message Format

PIM Version, Type, Checksum:

As specified in

Section 4.9.6 of [RFC7761]

.

"7 6 5 4 3 2":

Flag bits per

Section 4 of [RFC9436]

.

Packed flag.

MUST

 be 1.

P:

A:

Aggregated flag.

MUST

 be 0.

Zero:

Set to zero on transmission. Serves to make PIM routers that are not capable of assert packing
to fail in parsing the message instead possible mis-parsing of the message as an Assert
message

 if this field was not zero-filled.

[RFC7761]

Reserved:

Set to zero on transmission. Ignored upon receipt.

Liu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9466

M:

PIM Assert Packing

October 2023

The number of Assert Records in the message. Derived from the length of the packet carrying
the message.

Assert Record:

Formatted according to Figure 3, which is the same as the PIM Assert message body as
specified in

Section 4.9.6 of [RFC7761]

.

The format of each Assert Record is the same as the PIM Assert message body as specified in
Section 4.9.6 of [RFC7761]
.

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|              Group Address (Encoded-Group format)             |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|            Source Address (Encoded-Unicast format)            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|R|                      Metric Preference                      |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                             Metric                            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 4: Assert Record

4.4.  Aggregated PackedAssert Message Format

Liu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9466

PIM Assert Packing

October 2023

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|PIM Ver| Type  |7 6 5 4 3 2|A|P|           Checksum            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|    Zero       |                     Reserved                  |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                                                               |
.                                                               .
.                     Aggregated Assert Record [1]              .
.                                                               .
|                                                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                                                               |
.                                                               .
.                     Aggregated Assert Record [2]              .
.                                                               .
|                                                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                               .                               |
.                               .                               .
|                               .                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                                                               |
.                                                               .
.                     Aggregated Assert Record [M]              .
.                                                               .
|                                                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 5: Aggregated PackedAssert Message Format

PIM Version, Type, Reserved, Checksum:

As specified in

Section 4.9.6 of [RFC7761]

.

"7 6 5 4 3 2":

Flag bits per

Section 4 of [RFC9436]

.

Packed flag.

MUST

 be 1.

P:

A:

Aggregated flag.

MUST

 be 1.

Zero:

Set to zero on transmission. Serves to make PIM routers that are not capable of assert packing
to fail in parsing the message instead possible mis-parsing of the message as an Assert
message

 if this field was not zero-filled.

[RFC7761]

Liu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9466

PIM Assert Packing

October 2023

Aggregated Assert Record:

Formatted according to Figure 5. The number M of Aggregated Assert Records is determined
from the packet size.

4.4.1.  Source Aggregated Assert Record

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|R|                      Metric Preference                      |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                             Metric                            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|            Source Address (Encoded-Unicast format)            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|        Number of Groups (N)   |           Reserved            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                 Group Address 1 (Encoded-Group format)        |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                 Group Address 2 (Encoded-Group format)        |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                             .                                 |
|                             .                                 |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                 Group Address N (Encoded-Group format)        |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 6: Source Aggregated Assert Record

R:

MUST

 be 0.

R indicates both that the encoding format of the record is that of a Source Aggregated Assert
Record and that all assert records represented by the Source Aggregated Assert Record have
R=0 and are therefore (S,G) assert records according to the definition of R in
Section 4.9.6
.

[RFC7761],

Metric Preference, Metric, Source Address:
Section 4.9.6 of [RFC7761]

As specified in

. Source Address

MUST NOT

 be zero.

Number of Groups:

The number of Group Address fields.

Reserved:

Set to zero on transmission. Ignored upon receipt.

Group Address:

As specified in

Section 4.9.6 of [RFC7761]

.

Liu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9466

PIM Assert Packing

October 2023

4.4.2.  RP Aggregated Assert Record

An RP Aggregation Assert Record aggregates (*,G) assert records with the same Metric Preference
and Metric. Typically, this is the case for all (*,G) using the same RP, but the encoding is not
limited to only (*,G) using the same RP because the RP address is not encoded as it is also not
present in assert records

[RFC7761]
.

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|R|                      Metric Preference                      |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                             Metric                            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   Number of Group Records (K) |           Reserved            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                                                               |
.                                                               .
.                        Group Record [1]                       .
.                                                               .
|                                                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                                                               |
.                                                               .
.                        Group Record [2]                       .
.                                                               .
|                                                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                               .                               |
.                               .                               .
|                               .                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                                                               |
.                                                               .
.                        Group Record [K]                       .
.                                                               .
|                                                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 7: RP Aggregated Assert Record

R:

MUST

 be 1.

R indicates both that the encoding format of the record is that of an RP Aggregated Assert
Record and that all assert records represented by the RP Aggregated Assert Record have R=1
and are therefore (*,G) assert records according to the definition of R in
4.9.6
.

[RFC7761], Section

Liu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9466

PIM Assert Packing

October 2023

Metric Preference, Metric:

As specified in

Section 4.9.6 of [RFC7761]

.

Number of Group Records (K):

The number of packed Group Records. A record consists of a Group Address and a Source
Address list with a number of sources.

Reserved:

Set to zero on transmission. Ignored upon receipt.

The format of each Group Record is:

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|              Group Address (Encoded-Group format)             |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|        Number of Sources (P)  |           Reserved            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|              Source Address 1 (Encoded-Unicast format)        |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|              Source Address 2 (Encoded-Unicast format)        |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                             .                                 |
|                             .                                 |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|              Source Address P (Encoded-Unicast format)        |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 8: Group Record

Group Address:

As specified in

Section 4.9.6 of [RFC7761]

.

Reserved:

Set to zero on transmission. Ignored upon receipt.

Number of Sources (P):

The Number of Sources corresponds to the number of Source Address fields in the Group
Record. If this number is not 0 and one of the (*,G) assert records to be encoded has Source
Address 0, then 0 needs to be encoded as one of the Source Address fields.

Reserved:

Set to zero on transmission. Ignored upon receipt.

Source Address:

As specified in
the Group Record.

Section 4.9.6 of [RFC7761]

. But there can be multiple Source Address fields in

Liu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9466

PIM Assert Packing

October 2023

5.  IANA Considerations

IANA has updated the "PIM Message Types" registry as follows to include the Packed and
Aggregated flag bits for the Assert message type.

Value

Length Name

Reference

40

0

Packed Assert Capability

RFC 9466

Table 1: PIM-Hello Options

IANA has assigned the following two flag bits for PIM Assert messages in the "PIM Message
Types" registry.

Type Name

Flag Bits

Reference

5

Assert

0: Packed

RFC 9466

1: Aggregated

RFC 9466

2-7: Unassigned

[RFC3973] [RFC7761]

Table 2: PIM Message Types

6.  Security Considerations

The security considerations of

[RFC7761]

 apply to the extensions defined in this document.

This document packs multiple assert records in a single message. As described in
[RFC7761]
forwarding traffic to the LAN. The effect may be amplified when using a PackedAssert message.

, a forged Assert message could cause the legitimate designated forwarder to stop

Section 6.1 of

Like other optional extensions of
support for them, a single misconfigured or malicious router emitting forged PIM Hello messages
can inhibit operations of this extension.

 that are active only when all routers indicate

[RFC7761]

Authentication of PIM messages, such as that explained in Sections 6.2 and 6.3 of
protect against forged message attacks attacks.

[RFC7761]

, can

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Liu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9466

PIM Assert Packing

October 2023

[RFC7761]

[RFC8174]

[RFC9436]

,

,

,

Fenner, B. Handley, M. Holbrook, H. Kouvelas, I. Parekh, R. Zhang, Z.
,
Zheng "Protocol Independent Multicast - Sparse Mode (PIM-SM): Protocol
Specification (Revised)" STD 83 RFC 7761 DOI 10.17487/RFC7761
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7761>

,
.

,

,

,

, March 2016,

, and

L.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

 and

Venaas, S.
Bits" RFC 9436 DOI 10.17487/RFC9436
,
info/rfc9436>

,

.

A. Retana "PIM Message Type Space Extension and Reserved
,
, August 2023,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

7.2.  Informative References

[RFC2475]

[RFC3973]

[RFC6037]

[RFC7431]

[RFC7490]

,

Blake, S. Black, D. Carlson, M. Davies, E. Wang, Z.
Architecture for Differentiated Services" RFC 2475 DOI 10.17487/RFC2475
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2475>
December 1998,

W. Weiss "An

, and
,

,
,

,

,

,

.

,

Adams, A. Nicholas, J.
,
,
Mode (PIM-DM): Protocol Specification (Revised)" RFC 3973 DOI 10.17487/
RFC3973

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3973>

W. Siadak "Protocol Independent Multicast - Dense

, January 2005,

, and

,

,

.

,

Rosen, E., Ed. Cai, Y., Ed.
, and
in BGP/MPLS IP VPNs" RFC 6037 DOI 10.17487/RFC6037
,
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6037>
.

IJ. Wijnands "Cisco Systems' Solution for Multicast
<https://

, October 2010,

,

Karan, A. Filsfils, C. Wijnands, IJ., Ed.
,
, and
Reroute" RFC 7431 DOI 10.17487/RFC7431
,
editor.org/info/rfc7431>

,
,

.

B. Decraene "Multicast-Only Fast
,
, August 2015,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Bryant, S. Filsfils, C. Previdi, S. Shand, M.
,
Alternate (LFA) Fast Reroute (FRR)" RFC 7490 DOI 10.17487/RFC7490
2015,

, and
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7490>

N. So "Remote Loop-Free

,

,

,

.

, April

Appendix A.  Use Case Examples

The PIM Assert mechanism can only be avoided by designing the network to be without transit
subnets with multiple upstream routers. For example, an L2 ring between routers can sometimes
be reconfigured to be a ring of point-to-point subnets connected by the routers. However, these
L2/L3 topology changes are undesirable when they are only done to enable IP multicast with PIM
because they increase the cost of introducing IP multicast with PIM.

These L3 ring designs are specifically undesirable when particular L2 technologies are needed.
For example, various L2 technologies for rings provide sub-50 msec failover mechanisms that
will benefit IP unicast and multicast alike without any added complexity to the IP layer
(forwarding or routing). If such L2 rings were to be replaced by L3 rings just to avoid PIM asserts,
then this would result in the need for a complex choice of a sub-50 msec IP unicast failover

Liu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9466

PIM Assert Packing

October 2023

[RFC7490]

solution (such as
failover solution, (such as
at the IP layer, different solutions for IP unicast and multicast are required makes them more
difficult to operate, and they typically require more expensive hardware. This often leads to non-
support of the IP multicast part.

 with IP repair tunnels) as well as a separate sub-50 msec IP multicast
 with dedicated ring support). The mere fact that, by running

[RFC7431]

Likewise, IEEE Time-Sensitive Networking mechanisms would require an L2 topology that
cannot simply be replaced by an L3 topology. L2 sub-topologies can also significantly reduce the
cost of deployment.

The following subsections give examples of the type of network and use cases in which subnets
with asserts have been observed or are expected to require scaling as provided by this
specification.

A.1.  Enterprise Network

When an enterprise network is connected through an L2 network, the intra-enterprise runs L3
PIM multicast. The different sites of the enterprise are equivalent to the PIM connection through
the shared LAN network. Depending upon the locations and number of groups, there could be
many asserts on the first-hop routers.

A.2.  Video Surveillance

Video surveillance deployments have migrated from analog-based systems to IP-based systems
oftentimes using multicast. In the shared LAN network deployments, when there are many
cameras streaming to many groups, there may be issues with many asserts on first-hop routers.

A.3.  Financial Services

Financial services extensively rely on IP Multicast to deliver stock market data and its
derivatives, and the current multicast solution PIM is usually deployed. As the number of
multicast flows grow, many stock data with many groups may result in many PIM asserts on a
shared LAN network from the publisher to the subscribers.

A.4.  IPTV Broadcast Video

PIM DR deployments are often used in host-side network for IPTV broadcast video services. Host-
side access network failure scenarios may benefit from assert packing when many groups are
being used. According to
shared access network. When the DR recovers from a failure, the original DR starts to send
traffic, and the current DR is still forwarding traffic. In this situation, multicast traffic duplication
maybe happen in the shared access network and can trigger the assert progress.

, the DR will be elected to forward multicast traffic in the

[RFC7761]

A.5.  MVPN MDT

[RFC6037]

As described in
(MVPN). The configuration of multicast-enabled VPN Routing and Forwarding (VRF) or changes
to an interface that is in a VRF may cause many assert packets to be sent at the same time.

, Multicast Distribution Tree (MDT) is used as tunnels for Multicast VPN

Liu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9466

PIM Assert Packing

October 2023

A.6.  Special L2 Services

Additionally, future backhaul, or fronthaul, networks may want to connect L3 across an L2
underlay supporting Time-Sensitive Networks (TSNs). The infrastructure may run Deterministic
Networking (DetNet) over TSN. These transit L2 LANs would have multiple upstreams and
downstreams. This document takes a proactive approach to prevention of possible future assert
issues in these types of environments.

Acknowledgments

Alvaro Retana

The authors would like to thank the following individuals:
contributions of this document,
Ines Robles
for his SecDir review,
Éric Vyncke
review,
Martin Duke

 for her Gen-ART review,
Shuping Peng
 for his INT AD review,

Tommy Pauly
 for her RtgDir review,
Eric Kline

 for his TSV AD review,

 for his TSV AD review.

Zaheduzzaman Sarker

 for his thorough and constructive RTG AD review,

 for his Transport Area review,
John Scudder

Robert Sparks
 for his RTG AD review,
Paul Wouter
 for his SEC AD
 for his OPS AD review, and

 for his INT AD review,
Robert Wilton

Stig Venaas

 for the valuable

Authors' Addresses

editor
)

Yisong Liu (
China Mobile
China
Email:

 liuyisong@chinamobile.com

editor
)

Toerless Eckert (
Futurewei
United States of America
Email:

 tte@cs.fau.de

Mike McBride
Futurewei
United States of America
Email:

 michael.mcbride@futurewei.com

Zheng (Sandy) Zhang
ZTE Corporation
China
Email:

 zhang.zheng@zte.com.cn

Liu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

