Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9146
6347
Standards Track
March 2022
2070-1721
E. Rescorla,
Mozilla

H. Tschofenig,
Arm Limited

 Ed.

 Ed.

T. Fossati
Arm Limited

A. Kraus
Bosch.IO GmbH

RFC 9146
Connection Identiﬁer for DTLS 1.2

Abstract

This document speciﬁes the Connection ID (CID) construct for the Datagram Transport Layer
Security (DTLS) protocol version 1.2.

A CID is an identiﬁer carried in the record layer header that gives the recipient additional
information for selecting the appropriate security association. In "classical" DTLS, selecting a
security association of an incoming DTLS record is accomplished with the help of the 5-tuple. If
the source IP address and/or source port changes during the lifetime of an ongoing DTLS session,
then the receiver will be unable to locate the correct security context.

The new ciphertext record format with the CID also provides content type encryption and record
layer padding.

This document updates RFC 6347.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

.
https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9146

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Rescorla, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9146

DTLS 1.2 Connection ID

March 2022

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

This document may contain material from IETF Documents or IETF Contributions published or
made publicly available before November 10, 2008. The person(s) controlling the copyright in
some of this material may not have granted the IETF Trust the right to allow modiﬁcations of
such material outside the IETF Standards Process. Without obtaining an adequate license from
the person(s) controlling the copyright in such materials, this document may not be modiﬁed
outside the IETF Standards Process, and derivative works of it may not be created outside the
IETF Standards Process, except to format it for publication as an RFC or to translate it into
languages other than English.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Conventions and Terminology

3.  The "connection_id" Extension

4.  Record Layer Extensions

5.  Record Payload Protection

5.1.  Block Ciphers

5.2.  Block Ciphers with Encrypt-then-MAC Processing

5.3.  AEAD Ciphers

6.  Peer Address Update

7.  Example

8.  Privacy Considerations

9.  Security Considerations

10. IANA Considerations

10.1.  Extra Column Added to the TLS ExtensionType Values Registry

10.2.  New Entry in the TLS ExtensionType Values Registry

10.3.  New Entry in the TLS ContentType Registry

11. References

11.1.  Normative References

Rescorla, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9146

DTLS 1.2 Connection ID

March 2022

11.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

[RFC6347]

The Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS) protocol
data sent over datagram transports (e.g., UDP). DTLS, like TLS, starts with a handshake, which can
be computationally demanding (particularly when public key cryptography is used). After a
successful handshake, symmetric key cryptography is used to apply data origin authentication,
integrity, and conﬁdentiality protection. This two-step approach allows endpoints to amortize the
cost of the initial handshake across subsequent application data protection. Ideally, the second
phase where application data is protected lasts over a long period of time, since the established
keys will only need to be updated once the key lifetime expires.

 was designed for securing

In DTLS as speciﬁed in RFC 6347, the IP address and port of the peer are used to identify the DTLS
association. Unfortunately, in some cases, such as NAT rebinding, these values are insuﬃcient.
This is a particular issue in the Internet of Things when devices enter extended sleep periods to
increase their battery lifetime. The NAT rebinding leads to connection failure, with the resulting
cost of a new handshake.

This document deﬁnes an extension to DTLS 1.2 to add a Connection ID (CID) to the DTLS record
layer. The presence of the CID is negotiated via a DTLS extension.

Adding a CID to the ciphertext record format presents an opportunity to make other changes to
the record format. In keeping with the best practices established by TLS 1.3, the type of the record
is encrypted, and a mechanism is provided for adding padding to obfuscate the plaintext length.

2.  Conventions and Terminology

The key words "
", "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
", "
"
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

This document assumes familiarity with DTLS 1.2
this document is described in

Section 3 of [RFC8446]

.

[RFC6347]

. The presentation language used in

Rescorla, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9146

DTLS 1.2 Connection ID

March 2022

3.  The "connection_id" Extension

This document deﬁnes the "connection_id" extension, which is used in ClientHello and
ServerHello messages.

The extension type is speciﬁed as follows.

  enum {
     connection_id(54), (65535)
  } ExtensionType;

The extension_data ﬁeld of this extension, when included in the ClientHello,
ConnectionId structure. This structure contains the CID value the client wishes the server to use
when sending messages to the client. A zero-length CID value indicates that the client is prepared
to send using a CID but does not wish the server to use one when sending.

 contain the

MUST

  struct {
      opaque cid<0..2^8-1>;
  } ConnectionId;

A server willing to use CIDs will respond with a "connection_id" extension in the ServerHello,
containing the CID it wishes the client to use when sending messages towards it. A zero-length
value indicates that the server will send using the client's CID but does not wish the client to
include a CID when sending.

Because each party sends the value in the "connection_id" extension it wants to receive as a CID
in encrypted records, it is possible for an endpoint to use a deployment-speciﬁc constant length
for such connection identiﬁers. This can in turn ease parsing and connection lookup -- for
example, by having the length in question be a compile-time constant. Such implementations
 still be able to send CIDs of diﬀerent lengths to other parties. Since the CID length
MUST
information is not included in the record itself, implementations that want to use variable-length
CIDs are responsible for constructing the CID in such a way that its length can be determined on
reception.

In DTLS 1.2, CIDs are exchanged at the beginning of the DTLS session only. There is no dedicated
"CID update" message that allows new CIDs to be established mid-session, because DTLS 1.2 in
general does not allow TLS 1.3-style post-handshake messages that do not themselves begin other
handshakes. When a DTLS session is resumed or renegotiated, the "connection_id" extension is
negotiated afresh.

If DTLS peers have not negotiated the use of CIDs, or a zero-length CID has been advertised for a
given direction, then the record format and content type deﬁned in RFC 6347
send in the indicated direction(s).

 be used to

MUST

Rescorla, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9146

DTLS 1.2 Connection ID

March 2022

If DTLS peers have negotiated the use of a non-zero-length CID for a given direction, then once
encryption is enabled, they
with the new Message Authentication Code (MAC) computation deﬁned in Section 5 and the
content type tls12_cid. Plaintext payloads never use the new record format or the CID content
type.

 send with the record format deﬁned in Figure 3 (see Section 4)

MUST

When receiving, if the tls12_cid content type is set, then the CID is used to look up the connection
and the security association. If the tls12_cid content type is not set, then the connection and the
security association are looked up by the 5-tuple and a check
whether a non-zero-length CID is expected. If a non-zero-length CID is expected for the retrieved
association, then the datagram
[RFC6347]

 be treated as invalid, as described in

 be made to determine

Section 4.1.2.1 of

MUST

MUST

.

When receiving a datagram with the tls12_cid content type, the new MAC computation deﬁned in
Section 5
the MAC calculation deﬁned in

 be used. When receiving a datagram with the record format deﬁned in RFC 6347,

Section 4.1.2 of [RFC6347] MUST

 be used.

MUST

4.  Record Layer Extensions

This speciﬁcation deﬁnes the CID-enhanced record layer format for DTLS 1.2, and
speciﬁes how to carry the CID in DTLS 1.3.

[DTLS13]

To allow a receiver to determine whether a record has a CID or not, connections that have
negotiated this extension use a distinguished record type tls12_cid(25). The use of this content
type has the following three implications:

•

The CID ﬁeld is present and contains one or more bytes.

•

The MAC calculation follows the process described in Section 5.

•

The real content type is inside the encryption envelope, as described below.

Plaintext records are not impacted by this extension. Hence, the format of the DTLSPlaintext
structure is left unchanged, as shown in Figure 1.

     struct {
         ContentType type;
         ProtocolVersion version;
         uint16 epoch;
         uint48 sequence_number;
         uint16 length;
         opaque fragment[DTLSPlaintext.length];
     } DTLSPlaintext;

Figure 1: DTLS 1.2 Plaintext Record Payload

When CIDs are being used, the content to be sent is ﬁrst wrapped along with its content type and
optional padding into a DTLSInnerPlaintext structure. This newly introduced structure is shown
in Figure 2.

Rescorla, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9146

DTLS 1.2 Connection ID

March 2022

     struct {
         opaque content[length];
         ContentType real_type;
         uint8 zeros[length_of_padding];
     } DTLSInnerPlaintext;

Figure 2: New DTLSInnerPlaintext Payload Structure

content:

Corresponds to the fragment of a given length.

real_type:

The content type describing the cleartext payload.

zeros:

An arbitrary-length run of zero-valued bytes may appear in the cleartext after the type

ﬁeld. This provides an opportunity for senders to pad any DTLS record by a chosen amount as
long as the total stays within record size limits. See
(Note that the term TLSInnerPlaintext in RFC 8446 refers to DTLSInnerPlaintext in this
speciﬁcation.)

Section 5.4 of [RFC8446]

 for more details.

The DTLSInnerPlaintext byte sequence is then encrypted. To create the DTLSCiphertext structure
shown in Figure 3, the CID is added.

     struct {
         ContentType outer_type = tls12_cid;
         ProtocolVersion version;
         uint16 epoch;
         uint48 sequence_number;
         opaque cid[cid_length];               // New field
         uint16 length;
         opaque enc_content[DTLSCiphertext.length];
     } DTLSCiphertext;

Figure 3: DTLS 1.2 CID-Enhanced Ciphertext Record

outer_type:

The outer content type of a DTLSCiphertext record carrying a CID is always set to

tls12_cid(25). The real content type of the record is found in DTLSInnerPlaintext.real_type
after decryption.

cid:

The CID value, cid_length bytes long, as agreed at the time the extension has been

negotiated. Recall that each peer chooses the CID value it will receive and use to identify the
connection, so an implementation can choose to always receive CIDs of a ﬁxed length. If,
however, an implementation chooses to receive CIDs of diﬀerent lengths, the assigned CID
values must be self-delineating, since there is no other mechanism available to determine
what connection (and thus, what CID length) is in use.

enc_content:

The encrypted form of the serialized DTLSInnerPlaintext structure.

All other ﬁelds are as deﬁned in RFC 6347.

Rescorla, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9146

DTLS 1.2 Connection ID

March 2022

5.  Record Payload Protection

Several types of ciphers have been deﬁned for use with TLS and DTLS, and the MAC calculations
for those ciphers diﬀer slightly.

This speciﬁcation modiﬁes the MAC calculation as deﬁned in
the deﬁnition of the additional data used with Authenticated Encryption with Associated Data
(AEAD) ciphers provided in
algorithm
MUST NOT
other than tls12_cid.

 be applied to records that do not carry a CID, i.e., records with content type

, for records with content type tls12_cid. The modiﬁed

[RFC7366]

[RFC6347]

[RFC6347]

 and

, as well as

The following ﬁelds are deﬁned in this document; all other ﬁelds are as deﬁned in the cited
documents.

cid:

Value of the negotiated CID (variable length).

cid_length:

The length (in bytes) of the negotiated CID (one-byte integer).

length_of_DTLSInnerPlaintext:
byte integer). The length

MUST NOT

 exceed 2^14.

The length (in bytes) of the serialized DTLSInnerPlaintext (two-

seq_num_placeholder:

8 bytes of 0xﬀ.

Note that "+" denotes concatenation.

5.1.  Block Ciphers

The following MAC algorithm applies to block ciphers that do not use the Encrypt-then-MAC
processing described in

[RFC7366]

.

    MAC(MAC_write_key,
        seq_num_placeholder +
        tls12_cid +
        cid_length +
        tls12_cid +
        DTLSCiphertext.version +
        epoch +
        sequence_number +
        cid +
        length_of_DTLSInnerPlaintext +
        DTLSInnerPlaintext.content +
        DTLSInnerPlaintext.real_type +
        DTLSInnerPlaintext.zeros
    );

The rationale behind this construction is to separate the MAC input for DTLS without the
connection ID from the MAC input with the connection ID. The former always consists of a
sequence number followed by some content type other than tls12_cid; the latter always consists

Rescorla, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9146

DTLS 1.2 Connection ID

March 2022

of the seq_num_placeholder followed by tls12_cid. Although 2^64-1 is potentially a valid sequence
number, tls12_cid will never be a valid content type when the connection ID is not in use. In
addition, the epoch and sequence_number are now fed into the MAC in the same order as they
appear on the wire.

5.2.  Block Ciphers with Encrypt-then-MAC Processing

The following MAC algorithm applies to block ciphers that use the Encrypt-then-MAC processing
described in

[RFC7366]

.

    MAC(MAC_write_key,
        seq_num_placeholder +
        tls12_cid +
        cid_length +
        tls12_cid +
        DTLSCiphertext.version +
        epoch +
        sequence_number +
        cid +
        DTLSCiphertext.length +
        IV +
        ENC(content + padding + padding_length)
    );

5.3.  AEAD Ciphers

For ciphers utilizing AEAD, the following modiﬁcation is made to the additional data calculation.

    additional_data = seq_num_placeholder +
                      tls12_cid +
                      cid_length +
                      tls12_cid +
                      DTLSCiphertext.version +
                      epoch +
                      sequence_number +
                      cid +
                      length_of_DTLSInnerPlaintext;

6.  Peer Address Update

When a record with a CID is received that has a source address diﬀerent from the one currently
associated with the DTLS connection, the receiver
sending records to its peer with the source address speciﬁed in the received datagram, unless the
following three conditions are met:

 replace the address it uses for

MUST NOT

•

The received datagram has been cryptographically veriﬁed using the DTLS record layer
processing procedures.

Rescorla, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9146

DTLS 1.2 Connection ID

March 2022

•

The received datagram is "newer" (in terms of both epoch and sequence number) than the
newest datagram received. Reordered datagrams that are sent prior to a change in a peer
address might otherwise cause a valid address change to be reverted. This also limits the
ability of an attacker to use replayed datagrams to force a spurious address change, which
could result in denial of service. An attacker might be able to succeed in changing a peer
address if they are able to rewrite source addresses and if replayed packets are able to arrive
before any original.

•

There is a strategy for ensuring that the new peer address is able to receive and process DTLS
records. No strategy is mandated by this speciﬁcation, but see note (*) below.

The conditions above are necessary to protect against attacks that use datagrams with spoofed
addresses or replayed datagrams to trigger attacks. Note that there is no requirement for the use
of the anti-replay window mechanism deﬁned in
. Both solutions, the
"anti-replay window" or "newer" algorithm, will prevent address updates from replay attacks
while the latter will only apply to peer address updates and the former applies to any application
layer traﬃc.

Section 4.1.2.6 of [RFC6347]

Note that datagrams that pass the DTLS cryptographic veriﬁcation procedures but do not trigger
a change of peer address are still valid DTLS records and are still to be passed to the application.

(*) Note: Application protocols that implement protection against spoofed addresses depend
on being aware of changes in peer addresses so that they can engage the necessary
mechanisms. When delivered such an event, an address validation mechanism speciﬁc to the
application layer can be triggered -- for example, one that is based on successful exchange of a
minimal amount of ping-pong traﬃc with the peer. Alternatively, a DTLS-speciﬁc mechanism
may be used, as described in

[DTLS-RRC]

.

DTLS implementations

MUST

 silently discard records with bad MACs or that are otherwise invalid.

7.  Example

Figure 4 shows an example exchange where a CID is used unidirectionally from the client to the
server. To indicate that a zero-length CID is present in the "connection_id" extension, we use the
notation 'connection_id=empty'.

Rescorla, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9146

DTLS 1.2 Connection ID

March 2022

Client                                             Server
------                                             ------

ClientHello                 -------->
(connection_id=empty)

                            <--------      HelloVerifyRequest
                                                     (cookie)

ClientHello                 -------->
(connection_id=empty)
(cookie)

                                                  ServerHello
                                          (connection_id=100)
                                                  Certificate
                                            ServerKeyExchange
                                           CertificateRequest
                            <--------         ServerHelloDone

Certificate
ClientKeyExchange
CertificateVerify
[ChangeCipherSpec]
Finished                    -------->
<CID=100>

                                           [ChangeCipherSpec]
                            <--------                Finished

Application Data            ========>
<CID=100>

                            <========        Application Data

Legend:

<...> indicates that a connection ID is used in the record layer
(...) indicates an extension
[...] indicates a payload other than a handshake message

Figure 4: Example DTLS 1.2 Exchange with CID

Note: In the example exchange, the CID is included in the record layer once encryption is
enabled. In DTLS 1.2, only one handshake message is encrypted, namely the Finished message.
Since the example shows how to use the CID for payloads sent from the client to the server,
only the record layer payloads containing the Finished message or application data include a
CID.

Rescorla, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9146

DTLS 1.2 Connection ID

March 2022

8.  Privacy Considerations

The CID replaces the previously used 5-tuple and, as such, introduces an identiﬁer that remains
persistent during the lifetime of a DTLS connection. Every identiﬁer introduces the risk of
linkability, as explained in

[RFC6973]

.

An on-path adversary observing the DTLS protocol exchanges between the DTLS client and the
DTLS server is able to link the observed payloads to all subsequent payloads carrying the same ID
pair (for bidirectional communication). Without multihoming or mobility, the use of the CID
exposes the same information as the 5-tuple.

With multihoming, a passive attacker is able to correlate the communication interaction over the
two paths. The lack of a CID update mechanism in DTLS 1.2 makes this extension unsuitable for
mobility scenarios where correlation must be considered. Deployments that use DTLS in
 refuse to use CIDs in
multihoming environments and are concerned about these aspects
DTLS 1.2 and switch to DTLS 1.3 where a CID update mechanism is provided and sequence number
encryption is available.

SHOULD

This speciﬁcation introduces record padding for the CID-enhanced record layer, which is a
privacy feature not available with the original DTLS 1.2 speciﬁcation. Padding allows the size of
the ciphertext to be inﬂated, making traﬃc analysis more diﬃcult. More details about record
padding can be found in Section 5.4 and Appendix E.3 of

[RFC8446]

.

Finally, endpoints can use the CID to attach arbitrary per-connection metadata to each record
they receive on a given connection. This may be used as a mechanism to communicate per-
connection information to on-path observers. There is no straightforward way to address this
concern with CIDs that contain arbitrary values. Implementations concerned about this aspect
SHOULD

 refuse to use CIDs.

9.  Security Considerations

An on-path adversary can create reﬂection attacks against third parties because a DTLS peer has
no means to distinguish a genuine address update event (for example, due to a NAT rebinding)
from one that is malicious. This attack is of particular concern when the request is small and the
response large. See Section 6 for more on address updates.

Additionally, an attacker able to observe the data traﬃc exchanged between two DTLS peers is
able to replay datagrams with modiﬁed IP addresses / port numbers.

The topic of peer address updates is discussed in Section 6.

10.  IANA Considerations

This document implements three IANA updates.

Rescorla, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9146

DTLS 1.2 Connection ID

March 2022

10.1.  Extra Column Added to the TLS ExtensionType Values Registry

IANA has added an extra column named "DTLS-Only" to the "TLS ExtensionType Values" registry
to indicate whether an extension is only applicable to DTLS and to include this document as an
additional reference for the registry.

10.2.  New Entry in the TLS ExtensionType Values Registry

IANA has allocated an entry in the existing "TLS ExtensionType Values" registry for
connection_id(54), as described in the table below. Although the value 53 had been allocated by
early allocation for a previous version of this document, it is incompatible with this document.
Therefore, the early allocation has been deprecated in favor of this assignment.

Value

Extension Name

TLS 1.3 DTLS-Only

Recommended

Reference

54

connection_id

CH, SH

Y

N

RFC 9146

Table 1

A new column, "DTLS-Only", has been added to the registry. The valid entries are "Y" if the
extension is only applicable to DTLS, "N" otherwise. All the pre-existing entries are given the value
"N".

Note: The value "N" in the "Recommended" column is set because this extension is intended
only for speciﬁc use cases. This document describes the behavior of this extension for DTLS 1.2
only; it is not applicable to TLS, and its usage for DTLS 1.3 is described in

[DTLS13]

.

10.3.  New Entry in the TLS ContentType Registry

IANA has allocated tls12_cid(25) in the "TLS ContentType" registry. The tls12_cid content type is
only applicable to DTLS 1.2.

11.  References

11.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC6347]

[RFC7366]

,

,
Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
.
rfc2119>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

 and

,
Rescorla, E.
,
RFC 6347 DOI 10.17487/RFC6347
.
rfc6347>

,
N. Modadugu "Datagram Transport Layer Security Version 1.2"
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, January 2012,

,

Gutmann, P. "Encrypt-then-MAC for Transport Layer Security (TLS) and
,
Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)" RFC 7366 DOI 10.17487/RFC7366
September 2014,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7366>

,

,

Rescorla, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9146

DTLS 1.2 Connection ID

March 2022

[RFC8174]

[RFC8446]

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
,
rfc8174>
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,
,
Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>

, August 2018,

,

11.2.  Informative References

[DTLS-RRC]

[DTLS13]

[RFC6973]

Tschofenig, H., Ed.
,
DTLS 1.3" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-tls-dtls-rrc-05
,
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-tls-dtls-rrc-05>
.

T. Fossati "Return Routability Check for DTLS 1.2 and

 and

,

, 7 March 2022,

,

Rescorla, E. Tschofenig, H.
Security (DTLS) Protocol Version 1.3" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-
tls-dtls13-43
.
dtls13-43>

N. Modadugu "The Datagram Transport Layer
,

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-tls-

, 30 April 2021,

, and

,

,

,

,
Cooper, A. Tschofenig, H. Aboba, B. Peterson, J. Morris, J. Hansen, M.
Smith "Privacy Considerations for Internet Protocols" RFC 6973 DOI 10.17487/
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6973>
RFC6973

, July 2013,

, and

R.

,

,

,

,

,

,

Acknowledgements

We would like to thank
Francesca Palombini Tom Petch John Scudder Sean Turner Éric Vyncke
their review comments.

,
Hanno Becker Martin Duke Lars Eggert Ben Kaduk Warren Kumari
 for
Robert Wilton

,
, and

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Finally, we want to thank the IETF TLS Working Group chairs,
Sean Turner

, for their patience, support, and feedback.

Chris Wood Joseph Salowey

,

, and

Contributors

Many people have contributed to this speciﬁcation, and we would like to thank the following
individuals for their contributions:

Yin Xinxing
Huawei
Email:

 yinxinxing@huawei.com

Nikos Mavrogiannopoulos
RedHat
Email:

 nmav@redhat.com

Tobias Gondrom
Email:

 tobias.gondrom@gondrom.org

Rescorla, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9146

DTLS 1.2 Connection ID

March 2022

Additionally, we would like to thank the Connection ID task force team members:

• Martin Thomson

 (Mozilla)

• Christian Huitema

 (Private Octopus Inc.)

• Jana Iyengar

 (Google)

• Daniel Kahn Gillmor

 (ACLU)

• Patrick McManus

 (Mozilla)

• Ian Swett

 (Google)

• Mark Nottingham

 (Fastly)

The task force team discussed various design ideas, including cryptographically generated
session IDs using hash chains and public key encryption, but dismissed them due to their
ineﬃciency. The approach described in this speciﬁcation is the simplest possible design that
works, given the limitations of DTLS 1.2. DTLS 1.3 provides better privacy features, and developers
are encouraged to switch to the new version of DTLS.

Authors' Addresses

editor
)

Eric Rescorla (
Mozilla
Email:

 ekr@rtfm.com

Hannes Tschofenig (
Arm Limited
Email:

editor
)

 hannes.tschofenig@arm.com

Thomas Fossati
Arm Limited
Email:

 thomas.fossati@arm.com

Achim Kraus
Bosch.IO GmbH
Email:

 achim.kraus@bosch.io

Rescorla, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

