Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9515
7854
Standards Track
December 2023
2070-1721
J. Scudder
Juniper Networks

RFC 9515
Revision to Registration Procedures for Multiple
BMP Registries

Abstract

This document updates RFC 7854, "BGP Monitoring Protocol (BMP)", by changing the registration
procedures for several registries. Specifically, any BMP registry with a range of 32768-65530
designated "Specification Required" has that range redesignated as "First Come First Served".

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9515
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Scudder

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9515

BMP TLV Registration Procedures

December 2023

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  IANA Considerations

3.  Security Considerations

4.  Normative References

Acknowledgements

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

2

2

3

3

3

3

 creates a number of IANA registries that include a range of 32768-65530 designated

[RFC7854]
"Specification Required". Each such registry also has a large range designated "Standards Action".
Subsequent experience has shown two things. First, there is less difference between these two
policies in practice than there is in theory (consider that
Required, "Publication of an RFC is an ideal means of achieving this requirement"). Second, it's
desirable to have a very low bar to registration, to avoid the risk of conflicts introduced by use of
unregistered code points (so-called "code point squatting").

 explains that for Specification

[RFC8126]

Accordingly, this document revises the registration procedures, as given in Section 2.

2.  IANA Considerations

IANA has revised the following registries within the BMP group:

•

BMP Statistics Types

•

BMP Initiation and Peer Up Information TLVs

•

BMP Termination Message TLVs

•

BMP Termination Message Reason Codes

•

BMP Route Mirroring TLVs

•

BMP Route Mirroring Information Codes

For each of these registries, the ranges 32768-65530 whose registration procedures were
"Specification Required" are revised to have the registration procedures "First Come First
Served".

Scudder

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9515

BMP TLV Registration Procedures

December 2023

3.  Security Considerations

This revision to registration procedures does not change the underlying security issues inherent
in

[RFC7854]
.

4.  Normative References

[RFC7854]

[RFC8126]

Scudder, J., Ed. Fernando, R.
,
RFC 7854 DOI 10.17487/RFC7854
rfc7854>

,
.

, and

S. Stuart "BGP Monitoring Protocol (BMP)"
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, June 2016,

,

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

, June

Acknowledgements

Thanks to

Jeff Haas

 for review and encouragement, and to

Tom Petch

 for review.

Author's Address

John Scudder
Juniper Networks
1194 N. Mathilda Ave
Sunnyvale CA 94089
,
United States of America
Email:

 jgs@juniper.net

Scudder

Standards Track

Page 3

