Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9504
Standards Track
December 2023
2070-1721
Y. Lee
Samsung

H. Zheng
Huawei Technologies

O. Gonzalez de Dios
Telefonica

V. Lopez
Nokia

Z. Ali
Cisco

RFC 9504
Path Computation Element Communication Protocol
(PCEP) Extensions for Stateful PCE Usage in GMPLS-
Controlled Networks

Abstract

The Path Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) has been extended to support
stateful PCE functions where the stateful PCE maintains information about paths and resource
usage within a network; however, these extensions do not cover all requirements for GMPLS
networks.

This document provides the extensions required for PCEP so as to enable the usage of a stateful
PCE capability in GMPLS-controlled networks.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9504
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Lee, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9504

Stateful PCEP for GMPLS

December 2023

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Conventions Used in This Document

2.  Terminology

3.  General Context of Stateful PCE and PCEP for GMPLS

4.  Main Requirements

5.  Overview of Stateful PCEP Extensions for GMPLS Networks

5.1.  Capability Advertisement for Stateful PCEP in GMPLS

5.2.  LSP Synchronization

5.3.  LSP Delegation and Cleanup

5.4.  LSP Operations

6.  PCEP Object Extensions

6.1.  Existing Extensions Used for Stateful GMPLS

6.2.  New Extensions

6.2.1.  GMPLS-CAPABILITY TLV in OPEN Object

6.2.2.  New LSP Exclusion Subobject in the XRO

6.2.3.  New Flags in the LSP-EXTENDED-FLAG TLV in LSP Object

7.  Update to Error Handling

7.1.  Error Handling in PCEP Capabilities Advertisement

7.2.  Error Handling in LSP Reoptimization

7.3.  Error Handling in Route Exclusion

7.4.  Error Handling for the Generalized END-POINTS Object

8.  IANA Considerations

8.1.  New Flags in the GMPLS-CAPABILITY TLV

8.2.  New Subobject for the Exclude Route Object

3

4

4

4

5

6

6

6

7

7

7

7

8

8

8

10

10

10

11

11

11

12

12

12

Lee, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9504

Stateful PCEP for GMPLS

December 2023

8.3.  Flags Field for the LSP Exclusion Subobject

8.4.  New Flags in the LSP-EXTENDED-FLAGS TLV

8.5.  New PCEP Error Codes

9.  Manageability Considerations

9.1.  Control of Function through Configuration and Policy

9.2.  Information and Data Models

9.3.  Liveness Detection and Monitoring

9.4.  Verifying Correct Operation

9.5.  Requirements on Other Protocols and Functional Components

9.6.  Impact on Network Operation

10. Security Considerations

11. References

11.1.  Normative References

11.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  PCEP Messages

A.1.  The PCRpt Message

A.2.  The PCUpd Message

A.3.  The PCInitiate Message

Acknowledgements

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

12

13

13

14

14

14

15

15

15

15

15

15

15

16

18

18

19

20

20

21

21

 presents the architecture of a PCE-based model for computing Multiprotocol Label

[RFC4655]
Switching (MPLS) and Generalized MPLS (GMPLS) Traffic Engineering Label Switched Paths (TE
LSPs). To perform such a constrained computation, a PCE stores the network topology (i.e., TE
links and nodes) and resource information (i.e., TE attributes) in its TE Database (TED). A PCE
that only maintains a TED is referred to as a "stateless PCE".
Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) for interaction between a Path
Computation Client (PCC) and a PCE or between two PCEs, enabling computation of TE LSPs.
PCEP is further extended to support GMPLS-controlled networks as per

 describes the Path

[RFC8779]
.

[RFC5440]

Lee, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9504

Stateful PCEP for GMPLS

December 2023

Stateful PCEs are shown to be helpful in many application scenarios, in both MPLS and GMPLS
networks, as illustrated in
. Further discussion of the concept of a stateful PCE can be
[RFC7399]
found in
. In order for these applications to be able to exploit the capability of stateful
PCEs, extensions to stateful PCEP for GMPLS are required.

[RFC8051]

[RFC8051]
and GMPLS networks and the benefits it brings to such deployments.

 describes how a stateful PCE can be applied to solve various problems for MPLS-TE

[RFC8231]
 specifies a set of extensions to PCEP to enable stateful control of TE LSPs where they
are configured on the PCC and control over them could be delegated to the PCE. Furthermore,
[RFC8281]
 describes the setup and teardown of PCE-initiated LSPs under the active stateful PCE
model, without the need for local configuration on the PCC. However, both documents omit the
specification for technology-specific objects and TLVs, and they do not cover GMPLS-controlled
networks (e.g., Wavelength Switched Optical Network (WSON), Optical Transport Network (OTN),
Synchronous Optical Network (SONET) / Synchronous Digital Hierarchy (SDH)).

This document focuses on the extensions that are necessary in order for the deployment of
stateful PCEs and the requirements for PCE-initiated LSPs in GMPLS-controlled networks. Section
3 provides a general context of the usage of stateful PCEs and PCEP for GMPLS. The various
requirements for stateful GMPLS, including PCE initiation for GMPLS LSPs, are provided in
Section 4. An overview of the PCEP extensions is specified in Section 5. A solution to address such
requirements with PCEP object extensions is specified in Section 6.

1.1.  Conventions Used in This Document

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Terminology

Terminology used in this document is the same as terminology used in
[RFC8281]

[RFC8779]
.

, and

[RFC5440] [RFC8231]
,

,

3.  General Context of Stateful PCE and PCEP for GMPLS

This section is built on the basis of stateful PCEs specified in
specified in

[RFC8779]
.

[RFC8231]

 and PCEP for GMPLS

The operation of a stateful PCE on LSPs can be divided into two types: active stateful PCE and
).
passive stateful PCE (as described in

[RFC8051]

•

For active stateful PCEs, a Path Computation Update Request (PCUpd) message is sent from
the PCE to the PCC to update the LSP state for the LSPs delegated to the PCE. Any changes to
the delegated LSPs generate a Path Computation State Report (PCRpt) message from the PCC
to the PCE to convey the changes of the LSPs. Any modifications to the objects and TLVs that

Lee, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9504

Stateful PCEP for GMPLS

December 2023

are identified in this document to support GMPLS-specific attributes will be carried in the
PCRpt and PCUpd messages.

•

[RFC8779]

For passive stateful PCEs, Path Computation Request (PCReq) and Path Computation Reply
(PCRep) messages are used to request path computation. GMPLS-specific objects and TLVs
, which this document builds on and adds the stateful PCE aspects
are defined in
where applicable. A passive stateful PCE makes use of PCRpt messages when reporting LSP
state changes sent by PCCs to PCEs. Any modifications to the objects and TLVs that are
identified in this document to support GMPLS-specific attributes will be carried in the PCRpt
message.

Furthermore, the LSP Initiation function of PCEP is defined in
initiate LSP establishment after the path is computed. An LSP Initiate Request (PCInitiate)
message is used to trigger the end node to set up the LSP. Any modifications to the objects and
TLVs that are identified in this document to support GMPLS-specific attributes will be carried in
the PCInitiate messages.

 to allow the PCE to

[RFC8281]

 defines GMPLS-specific objects and TLVs in stateless PCEP; this document makes use of

[RFC8779]
these objects and TLVs without modifications where applicable. Where these objects and TLVs
require modifications to incorporate stateful PCEs, they are described in this document. PCE-
initiated LSPs follow the principle specified in
also included in this document.

, and the GMPLS-specific extensions are

[RFC8281]

4.  Main Requirements

This section notes the main functional requirements for PCEP extensions to support stateful PCEs
for use in GMPLS-controlled networks, based on the description in
requirements are common across a variety of network types (e.g., MPLS-TE networks and GMPLS
networks) and the protocol extensions to meet the requirements are already described in
[RFC8231]
information that describes the GMPLS requirement can also follow the description in
This document does not repeat the description of those protocol extensions. This document
presents protocol extensions for a set of requirements that are specific to the use of a stateful PCE
in a GMPLS-controlled network.

 (such as LSP update, delegation, and state synchronization/report). Protection context
[RFC8745]
.

[RFC8051]

. Many

The requirements for GMPLS-specific stateful PCEs are as follows:

•

Advertisement of the stateful PCE capability. This generic requirement is covered in
5.4 of [RFC8231]
. The GMPLS-CAPABILITY TLV specified in
extension in this document need to be advertised as well.

Section 2.1 of [RFC8779]

Section

 and its

•

All the PCEP messages need to be capable of indicating GMPLS-specific switching
capabilities. GMPLS LSP creation, modification, and deletion require knowledge of LSP
switching capabilities (e.g., Time-Division Multiplex Capable (TDM), Layer 2 Switch Capable
(L2SC), OTN-TDM, Lambda Switch Capable (LSC), etc.) and the Generalized Payload Identifier
(G-PID) to be used according to
. It also requires that traffic
parameters that are both data flow and technology specific be defined. These traffic

[RFC3471]

[RFC3473]

 and

Lee, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9504

Stateful PCEP for GMPLS

December 2023

parameters are also known as "Traffic Specification" or "Tspec". Such information would
need to be included in various PCEP messages.

•

In some technologies, path calculation is tightly coupled with label selection along the route.
For example, path calculation in a Wavelength Division Multiplexing (WDM) network may
include lambda continuity and/or lambda feasibility constraints; hence, a path computed by
the PCE is associated with a specific lambda (label). Thus, in such networks, the label
information needs to be provided to a PCC in order for a PCE to initiate GMPLS LSPs under
the active stateful PCE model, i.e., Explicit Label Control (ELC) may be required.

•

Stateful PCEP messages also need to indicate the protection context information for the LSP
 and
specified by GMPLS, as defined in

[RFC4873]

[RFC4872]

.

5.  Overview of Stateful PCEP Extensions for GMPLS Networks

5.1.  Capability Advertisement for Stateful PCEP in GMPLS

; it can be achieved by using the STATEFUL-

[RFC8231]
Capability advertisement is specified in
PCE-CAPABILITY TLV in the Open message. Another GMPLS-CAPABILITY TLV is defined in
[RFC8779]
. A subregistry to manage the Flag field of the GMPLS-CAPABILITY TLV has been
created by IANA as requested by
in the GMPLS-CAPABILITY TLV as flags to indicate the capability for LSP report, update, and
initiation in GMPLS networks: LSP-REPORT-CAPABILITY (31), LSP-UPDATE-CAPABILITY (30), and
LSP-INSTANTIATION-CAPABILITY (29).

. The following bits are introduced by this document

[RFC8779]

5.2.  LSP Synchronization

After the session between the PCC and a stateful PCE is initialized, the PCE must learn the state of
a PCC's LSPs (including its attributes) before it can perform path computations or update LSP
attributes in a PCC. This process is known as "LSP state synchronization". The LSP attributes,
including bandwidth, associated route, and protection information etc., are stored by the PCE in
the LSP database (LSP-DB). Note that, as described in
covers both the bulk reporting of LSPs at initialization as well as the reporting of new or
modified LSPs during normal operation. Incremental LSP-DB synchronization may be desired in
a GMPLS-controlled network; it is specified in

, the LSP state synchronization

[RFC8232]
.

[RFC8231]

The format of the PCRpt message is specified in
 and extended in
the END-POINTS object. The END-POINTS object is extended for GMPLS in
POINTS object can be carried in the PCRpt message as specified in
object type for GMPLS is included in the PCRpt message as per the same.

[RFC8231]

[RFC8623]

[RFC8623]
[RFC8779]

 to include
. The END-
. The END-POINTS

The following objects are extended for GMPLS in
same manner: BANDWIDTH, LSP Attributes (LSPA), Include Route Object (IRO), and Exclude
[RFC8231]
Route Object (XRO). These objects are carried in the PCRpt message as specified in
the attribute-list defined in
define PCEP extensions for specific scenarios).

Section 6.5 of [RFC5440]

 and extended by many other documents that

 and are also used in the PCRpt in the

[RFC8779]

 (as

Lee, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9504

Stateful PCEP for GMPLS

December 2023

The SWITCH-LAYER object is defined in
specified in

Section 3.2 of [RFC8282]
.

[RFC8282]

. This object is carried in the PCRpt message as

5.3.  LSP Delegation and Cleanup

The LSP delegation and cleanup procedure specified in
GMPLS LSPs and this document does not modify the associated usage.

[RFC8281]

 are equally applicable to

5.4.  LSP Operations

Both passive and active stateful PCE mechanisms in
controlled networks. Remote LSP Initiation in
networks.

[RFC8231]

 are applicable in GMPLS-
 is also applicable in GMPLS-controlled

[RFC8281]

6.  PCEP Object Extensions

6.1.  Existing Extensions Used for Stateful GMPLS

Existing extensions defined in
for GMPLS network control, including the following:

[RFC8779]

 can be used in stateful PCEP with no or slight changes

END-POINTS:

The END-POINTS object was specified in

[RFC8779]

 to include GMPLS capabilities.

All stateful PCEP messages
object type, containing the LABEL-REQUEST TLV. Further note that:

MUST

 include the END-POINTS object with Generalized Endpoint

•

[RFC8779]

, for stateless GMPLS path computation, the Generalized END-POINTS

As per
object may contain a LABEL-REQUEST and/or LABEL-SET TLV. In this document, only the
LABEL-REQUEST TLV is used to specify the switching type, encoding type, and G-PID of
the LSP.

•

If unnumbered endpoint addresses are used for the LSP, the UNNUMBERED-ENDPOINT
TLV

 be used to specify the unnumbered endpoint addresses.

[RFC8779] MUST

•

The Generalized END-POINTS object

MAY

 contain other TLVs defined in

[RFC8779]

.

RP:

The Request Parameter (RP) object extension (together with the Routing Granularity (RG)

flag defined in

[RFC8779]

) is applicable in stateful PCEP for GMPLS networks.

BANDWIDTH:

Generalized BANDWIDTH is specified in

[RFC8779]

 to represent GMPLS features,

including asymmetric bandwidth and G-PID information.

LSPA:

LSPA Extensions in

Section 2.8 of [RFC8779]

 are applicable in stateful PCEP for GMPLS

networks.

IRO:

IRO Extensions in

Section 2.6 of [RFC8779]

 are applicable in stateful PCEP for GMPLS

networks.

XRO:

XRO Extensions in

Section 2.7 of [RFC8779]

 are applicable in stateful PCEP for GMPLS

networks. A new flag is defined in Section 6.2.3 of this document.

Lee, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9504

ERO:

Stateful PCEP for GMPLS

December 2023

The Explicit Route Object (ERO) is not extended in

[RFC8779]

, nor is it in this document.

SWITCH-LAYER:

The SWITCH-LAYER definition in

Section 3.2 of [RFC8282]

 is applicable in

stateful PCEP messages for GMPLS networks.

6.2.  New Extensions

6.2.1.  GMPLS-CAPABILITY TLV in OPEN Object

[RFC8779]

, IANA allocates value 45 (GMPLS-CAPABILITY) from the "PCEP TLV Type Indicators"
In
subregistry. This specification adds three flags to the Flag field of this TLV to indicate the Report,
Update, and Initiation capabilities.

R (LSP-REPORT-CAPABILITY (31) -- 1 bit):

If set to 1 by a PCC, the R flag indicates that the PCC is capable of reporting the current state of
a GMPLS LSP whenever there's a change to the parameters or operational status of the GMPLS
LSP. If set to 1 by a PCE, the R flag indicates that the PCE is interested in receiving GMPLS LSP
State Reports whenever there is a parameter or operational status change to the LSP. The LSP-
REPORT-CAPABILITY flag must be advertised by both a PCC and a PCE for PCRpt messages to
be allowed on a PCEP session for GMPLS LSP.

U (LSP-UPDATE-CAPABILITY (30) -- 1 bit):

If set to 1 by a PCC, the U flag indicates that the PCC allows modification of GMPLS LSP
parameters. If set to 1 by a PCE, the U flag indicates that the PCE is capable of updating GMPLS
LSP parameters. The LSP-UPDATE-CAPABILITY flag must be advertised by both a PCC and a
PCE for PCUpd messages to be allowed on a PCEP session for GMPLS LSP.

I (LSP-INSTANTIATION-CAPABILITY (29) -- 1 bit):

If set to 1 by a PCC, the I flag indicates that the PCC allows instantiation of a GMPLS LSP by a
PCE. If set to 1 by a PCE, the I flag indicates that the PCE supports instantiating GMPLS LSPs.
The LSP-INSTANTIATION-CAPABILITY flag must be set by both the PCC and PCE in order to
enable PCE-initiated LSP instantiation.

6.2.2.  New LSP Exclusion Subobject in the XRO

 defines a mechanism for a PCC to request or demand that specific nodes, links, or

[RFC5521]
other network resources be excluded from paths computed by a PCE. A PCC may wish to request
the computation of a path that avoids all links and nodes traversed by some other LSP.

To this end, this document defines a new subobject for use with route exclusion defined in
[RFC5521]

. The LSP Exclusion subobject is as follows:

Lee, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9504

Stateful PCEP for GMPLS

December 2023

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|X|Type (11)    |     Length    |   Reserved    |    Flags      |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                                                               |
//                    Symbolic Path Name                       //
|                                                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 1: New LSP Exclusion Subobject Format

X:

This field is the same as the X-bit defined in the XRO subobjects in
where it says:

Section 2.1.1 of [RFC5521]

The X-bit indicates whether the exclusion is mandatory or desired. 0 indicates that the
resource specified
the resource specified
be included subject to PCE policy and the absence of a viable path that meets the other
constraints and excludes the resource.

 be excluded from the path computed by the PCE. 1 indicates that
 be excluded from the path computed by the PCE, but
MAY

SHOULD

MUST

Type:

The subobject type for an LSP Exclusion subobject. Value of 11.

Length:

The Length contains the total length of the subobject in bytes, including the Type and

Length fields.

Reserved:

Reserved

MUST

 be set to zero on transmission and ignored on receipt.

Flags:

This field may be used to further specify the exclusion constraint with regard to the LSP.

Currently, no flags are defined.

Symbolic Path Name:

This is the identifier given to an LSP. Its syntax and semantics are

identical to those of the Symbolic Path Name field defined in
it says: "symbolic name for the LSP, unique in the PCC. It
ASCII characters, without a NULL terminator." The symbolic path name in the LSP Exclusion
 only vary from being a string of printable ASCII characters without a NULL
subobject
terminator when it is matching the value contained in another subobject. It is worth noting
that given that the symbolic path name is unique in the context of the headnode, only LSPs
that share the same headnode or PCC could be excluded.

Section 7.3.2 of [RFC8231]

 be a string of printable

SHOULD

MUST

 where

MAY

This subobject
LSPs. When a stateful PCE receives a PCReq message carrying this subobject, it
for the identified LSP in its LSP-DB and then exclude from the new path computation all
resources used by the identified LSP.

 be present multiple times in the XRO to exclude resources from multiple
 search

MUST

Note that this XRO subobject could also be used by non-GMPLS LSPs. The usage of the XRO
subobject for any non-GMPLS LSPs is not in the scope of this document.

Lee, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9504

Stateful PCEP for GMPLS

December 2023

6.2.3.  New Flags in the LSP-EXTENDED-FLAG TLV in LSP Object

The LSP object is defined in
in
following flags defined in this document:

[RFC9357]

Section 7.3 of [RFC8231]

, and the new extended flags TLV is defined

. This TLV is used in PCUpd, PCRpt and PCInitiate messages for GMPLS, with the

G (GMPLS LSP (0) -- 1 bit):

If set to 1, it indicates the LSP is a GMPLS LSP.

B (Bidirectional LSP (1) -- 1 bit):

If set to 0, it indicates a request to create a unidirectional LSP. If set to 1, it indicates a request
to create a bidirectional co-routed LSP.

RG (Routing Granularity (2-3) -- 2 bits):

The RG flag for GMPLS is also defined in the LSP-EXTENDED-FLAG TLV. The values are defined
as per

[RFC8779]
:

00:
01:
10:
11:

reserved
node
link
label

7.  Update to Error Handling

A PCEP-ERROR object is used to report a PCEP error and is characterized by an Error-Type that
specifies the type of error and an Error-value that provides additional information about the
error. This section adds additional error handling procedures to those specified in
[RFC8779]
and
MUST

. Please note that all error handling specified in
 be supported for a stateful PCE in GMPLS networks.

Section 3 of
 is applicable

Section 3 of [RFC8779]

7.1.  Error Handling in PCEP Capabilities Advertisement

The PCEP extensions described in this document for stateful PCEs with GMPLS capabilities
NOT

 be used if the PCE has not advertised its capabilities with GMPLS as per Section 6.2.1.

MUST

 generate a PCErr with Error-Type 19 ("Invalid Operation") Error-value 25 ("Attempted

If the PCC understands the U flag that indicates the stateful LSP-UPDATE-CAPABILITY, but did not
advertise this capability, then upon receipt of a PCUpd message for GMPLS LSP from the PCE, it
SHOULD
LSP update request for GMPLS if stateful PCE capability not advertised") and terminate the PCEP
session. Such a PCC
 decide to utilize the capability even though it did not advertise support
for it.

MAY

If the PCE understands the R flag that indicates the stateful LSP-REPORT-CAPABILITY, but did not
advertise this capability, then upon receipt of a PCRpt message for GMPLS LSP from the PCC, it
 generate a PCErr with Error-Type 19 ("Invalid Operation") Error-value 26 ("Attempted
SHOULD

Lee, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9504

Stateful PCEP for GMPLS

December 2023

LSP State Report for GMPLS if stateful PCE capability not advertised") and terminate the PCEP
session. Such a PCE
for it.

 decide to utilize the capability even though it did not advertise support

MAY

SHOULD

If the PCC understands the I flag that indicates LSP-INSTANTIATION-CAPABILITY, but did not
advertise this capability, then upon receipt of a PCInitiate message for GMPLS LSP from the PCE,
it
 generate a PCErr with Error-Type 19 ("Invalid Operation") Error-value 27 ("Attempted
LSP instantiation request for GMPLS if stateful PCE instantiation capability for not advertised")
 decide to utilize the capability even though it
and terminate the PCEP session. Such a PCC
did not advertise support for it.

MAY

7.2.  Error Handling in LSP Reoptimization

A stateful PCE is expected to perform an LSP reoptimization when receiving a message with the R
bit set in the RP object. If no LSP state information is available to carry out reoptimization, the
 report Error-Type 19 ("Invalid Operation") Error-value 23 ("LSP state info
stateful PCE
unavailable for reoptimization"), although such a PCE
 consider the reoptimization to have
successfully completed. Note that this error message could also be used by non-GMPLS LSPs.

SHOULD

MAY

7.3.  Error Handling in Route Exclusion

The LSP Exclusion subobject in XRO, as defined in Section 6.2.2 of this document,
 be present
multiple times. When a stateful PCE receives a PCEP message carrying this subobject, it searches
for the identified LSP in its LSP-DB. It then excludes from the new path computation all the
resources used by the identified LSP. If the stateful PCE cannot recognize the symbolic path name
of the identified LSP, it
Operation") Error-value 24 ("LSP state info for route exclusion not found"). Along with the
unrecognized symbolic path name, it
[RFC5440]
the error-reporting techniques described in
 choose to ignore
the requested exclusion when the LSP cannot be found because it could claim that it has avoided
using all resources associated with an LSP that doesn't exist.

 send an error message PCErr reporting Error-Type 19 ("Invalid

 also provide information to the requesting PCC using

. An implementation

SHOULD

MAY

MAY

MAY

7.4.  Error Handling for the Generalized END-POINTS Object

[RFC8623]

. Similarly, the END-POINTS object

Note that the END-POINTS object in stateful PCEP messages was introduced for Point-to-
Multipoint (P2MP)
 be carried for the GMPLS
LSP. If the END-POINTS object is missing and the GMPLS flag in LSP-EXTENDED-FLAG is set, the
receiving PCE or PCC
missing") and Error-value 3 ("END-POINTS object missing") (defined in
the END-POINTS object with the Generalized Endpoint object type is received but the LSP-
EXTENDED-FLAG TLV is missing in the LSP object or the G flag in the LSP-EXTENDED-FLAG TLV
is not set, the receiving PCE or PCC
Operation") Error-value 28 ("Use of the Generalized Endpoint object type for non-GMPLS LSPs").

 send a PCErr message with Error-Type 6 ("Mandatory Object

 send a PCErr message with Error-Type 19 ("Invalid

). Similarly, if

[RFC5440]

MUST

MUST

MUST

If the END-POINTS object with Generalized Endpoint object type is missing the LABEL-REQUEST
TLV, the receiving PCE or PCC
 send a PCErr message with Error-Type 6 ("Mandatory Object
missing") Error-value 20 ("LABEL-REQUEST TLV missing").

MUST

Lee, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9504

Stateful PCEP for GMPLS

December 2023

8.  IANA Considerations

8.1.  New Flags in the GMPLS-CAPABILITY TLV

 defines the GMPLS-CAPABILITY TLV; per that RFC, IANA created the "GMPLS-

[RFC8779]
CAPABILITY TLV Flag Field" registry to manage the values of the GMPLS-CAPABILITY TLV's Flag
field. This document registers new bits in this registry as follows:

Bit

Capability Description

Reference

LSP-REPORT-CAPABILITY (R)

RFC 9504

LSP-UPDATE-CAPABILITY (U)

RFC 9504

LSP-INSTANTIATION-CAPABILITY (I)

RFC 9504

31

30

29

Table 1

8.2.  New Subobject for the Exclude Route Object

IANA maintains the various XRO subobject types within the "XRO Subobjects" subregistry of the
"Path Computation Element Protocol (PCEP) Numbers" registry. IANA has allocated a codepoint
for another XRO subobject as follows:

Value

Description

Reference

11

LSP

RFC 9504

Table 2

8.3.  Flags Field for the LSP Exclusion Subobject

IANA has created a registry named "LSP Exclusion Subobject Flag Field", within the "Path
Computation Element Protocol (PCEP) Numbers" group, to manage the Flag field of the LSP
Exclusion subobject in the XRO. No flag is currently defined for this Flag field in this document.

Codespace of the Flag field (LSP Exclusion Subobject)

Bit

Capability Description

Reference

0-7

Unassigned

RFC 9504

Table 3

New values are to be assigned by Standards Action
the following entries:

[RFC8126]

. Each bit should be registered with

•

Bit number (counting from bit 0 as the most significant bit)

Lee, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9504

Stateful PCEP for GMPLS

December 2023

•

Capability description

•

Reference to defining RFC

8.4.  New Flags in the LSP-EXTENDED-FLAGS TLV

 requested IANA to create a subregistry, named the "LSP-EXTENDED-FLAG TLV Flag

[RFC9357]
Field", within the "Path Computation Element Protocol (PCEP) Numbers" registry, to manage the
Flag field of the LSP-EXTENDED-FLAG TLV.

IANA has made assignments from this registry as follows:

Bit

Capability Description

Reference

0

1

GMPLS LSP (G)

RFC 9504

Bidirectional Co-routed LSP (B)

RFC 9504

2-3

Routing Granularity (RG)

RFC 9504

Table 4

8.5.  New PCEP Error Codes

IANA has made the following allocations in the "PCEP-ERROR Object Error Types and Values"
registry.

Error-
Type

6

19

Meaning

Error-value

Reference

Mandatory
Object missing

20: LABEL-REQUEST TLV missing

RFC 9504

Invalid
Operation

23: LSP state info unavailable for
reoptimization

RFC 9504

24: LSP state info for route exclusion not found

RFC 9504

25: Attempted LSP update request for GMPLS if
stateful PCE capability not advertised

RFC 9504

26: Attempted LSP State Report for GMPLS if
stateful PCE capability not advertised

27: Attempted LSP instantiation request for
GMPLS if stateful PCE instantiation capability
not advertised

RFC 9504

RFC 9504

Lee, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9504

Stateful PCEP for GMPLS

December 2023

Error-
Type

Table 5

Meaning

Error-value

Reference

28: Use of the Generalized Endpoint object type
for non-GMPLS LSPs

RFC 9504

9.  Manageability Considerations

General PCE management considerations are discussed in
specific PCEP management considerations are described in
management considerations for stateful PCEP extension in GMPLS are described.

[RFC4655]

[RFC8779]

 and

[RFC5440]

. In this document, the

, and GMPLS-

This section follows the guidance of

[RFC6123]
.

9.1.  Control of Function through Configuration and Policy

In addition to the parameters already listed in
SHOULD
implementation

 allow configuration of the following PCEP session parameters on a PCC. However, an
 choose to make these features available on all PCEP sessions:

Section 8.1 of [RFC5440]

, a PCEP implementation

MAY

•

The ability to send stateful PCEP messages for GMPLS LSPs.

•

The ability to use path computation constraints (e.g., XRO).

In addition to the parameters already listed in
SHOULD

 allow configuration of the following PCEP session parameters on a PCE:

Section 8.1 of [RFC5440]

, a PCEP implementation

•

The ability to compute paths in a stateful manner in GMPLS networks.

•

A set of GMPLS-specific constraints.

These parameters may be configured as default parameters for any PCEP session the PCEP
speaker participates in or they may apply to a specific session with a given PCEP peer or a
specific group of sessions with a specific group of PCEP peers.

9.2.  Information and Data Models

[PCE-PCEP-YANG]

The YANG module in
 can be used to configure and monitor PCEP states and
messages. To make sure that the YANG module is useful for the extensions as described in this
document, it would need to include advertised GMPLS stateful capabilities etc. A future version
of

[PCE-PCEP-YANG]

 will include this.

[YANG-PATH-COMPUTATION]
As described in
to request GMPLS path computations, instead of PCEP. Refer to
details.

, a YANG-based interface can be used in some cases
 for

[YANG-PATH-COMPUTATION]

Lee, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9504

Stateful PCEP for GMPLS

December 2023

9.3.  Liveness Detection and Monitoring

This document makes no change to the basic operation of PCEP, so there are no changes to the
Section 8.3 of [RFC5440]
.
requirements for liveness detection and monitoring in

[RFC4657]

 and

9.4.  Verifying Correct Operation

This document makes no change to the basic operations of PCEP and the considerations
described in
requirement to log error events.

. New errors defined by this document should satisfy the

Section 8.4 of [RFC5440]

9.5.  Requirements on Other Protocols and Functional Components

When the detailed route information is included for LSP state synchronization (either at the
initial stage or during the LSP State Report process), this requires the ingress node of an LSP to
carry the Record Route Object (RRO) object in order to enable the collection of such information.

9.6.  Impact on Network Operation

The management considerations concerning the impact on network operations described in
Section 4.6 of [RFC8779]

 apply here.

10.  Security Considerations

[RFC5440]

The security considerations elaborated in
to support GMPLS-controlled networks should be considered under the same security as for
MPLS networks, as noted in
specified in
[RFC8779]
[RFC8253]
PCEP extension defined in this document.

 is used as the foundation of this document; the security considerations in
 should also be applicable to this document. The secure transport of PCEP specified in
 allows the usage of Transport Layer Security (TLS). The same can also be used by the

. Therefore, the PCEP extension to support GMPLS

 apply to this document. The PCEP extensions

[RFC8779]

[RFC7025]

This document provides additional extensions to PCEP so as to facilitate stateful PCE usage in
. Security issues caused by the
GMPLS-controlled networks, on top of
[RFC8281]
extension in
security considerations in
this document as well.

[RFC8231]
 are not altered by the additions in this document. The

, including both issues and solutions, apply to

[RFC8281]

[RFC8231]

[RFC8231]

[RFC8281]

 and

 and

 and

11.  References

11.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Lee, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9504

Stateful PCEP for GMPLS

December 2023

[RFC5440]

[RFC5511]

[RFC5521]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8231]

[RFC8253]

[RFC8281]

[RFC8779]

[RFC9357]

 and

Vasseur, JP., Ed.
Communication Protocol (PCEP)" RFC 5440 DOI 10.17487/RFC5440
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5440>

JL. Le Roux, Ed. "Path Computation Element (PCE)

,

,

.

, March 2009,

,

Farrel, A. "Routing Backus-Naur Form (RBNF): A Syntax Used to Form Encoding
Rules in Various Routing Protocol Specifications" RFC 5511 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5511

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5511>

, April 2009,

,

,

.

,

Oki, E. Takeda, T.
Communication Protocol (PCEP) for Route Exclusions" RFC 5521 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5521

A. Farrel "Extensions to the Path Computation Element

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5521>

, April 2009,

, and

,

,

,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Crabbe, E. Minei, I. Medved, J.
Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for Stateful PCE" RFC 8231 DOI
10.17487/RFC8231

R. Varga "Path Computation Element

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8231>

, September 2017,

, and

,

,

,

,

.

,

Lopez, D. Gonzalez de Dios, O. Wu, Q.
Provide a Secure Transport for the Path Computation Element Communication
Protocol (PCEP)" RFC 8253 DOI 10.17487/RFC8253
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8253>

D. Dhody "PCEPS: Usage of TLS to

, October 2017,

<https://

, and

,

,

,

.

,

,

R. Varga "Path Computation Element
Crabbe, E. Minei, I. Sivabalan, S.
Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for PCE-Initiated LSP Setup in a
Stateful PCE Model" RFC 8281 DOI 10.17487/RFC8281
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8281>

, December 2017,

, and

,

,

,

.

<https://

,

Margaria, C., Ed. Gonzalez de Dios, O., Ed.
F. Zhang, Ed. "Path Computation
Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for GMPLS" RFC 8779 DOI
10.17487/RFC8779

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8779>

, July 2020,

, and

,

,

,

.

Xiong, Q. "Label Switched Path (LSP) Object Flag Extension for Stateful PCE"
,
RFC 9357 DOI 10.17487/RFC9357
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/
info/rfc9357>

, February 2023,

,
,

.

11.2.  Informative References

[PCE-PCEP-YANG]

Dhody, D., Ed. Beeram, V. P. Hardwick, J.

,

,

, and

J. Tantsura "A YANG Data

,

Model for Path Computation Element Communications Protocol (PCEP)" Work
in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-pce-pcep-yang-22
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-pce-pcep-yang-22>

, 11 September 2023,

,

,

.

[RFC3471]

,

Berger, L., Ed. "Generalized Multi-Protocol Label Switching (GMPLS) Signaling
Functional Description" RFC 3471 DOI 10.17487/RFC3471
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3471>

, January 2003,

,

,

.

Lee, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9504

Stateful PCEP for GMPLS

December 2023

[RFC3473]

[RFC4655]

[RFC4657]

[RFC4872]

[RFC4873]

[RFC6123]

[RFC7025]

[RFC7399]

[RFC8051]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8232]

,

Berger, L., Ed. "Generalized Multi-Protocol Label Switching (GMPLS) Signaling
Resource ReserVation Protocol-Traffic Engineering (RSVP-TE) Extensions" RFC
3473 DOI 10.17487/RFC3473
,
rfc3473>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, January 2003,

,

.

,

Farrel, A. Vasseur, J.-P.
Architecture" RFC 4655 DOI 10.17487/RFC4655
,
editor.org/info/rfc4655>
.

, and

,

J. Ash "A Path Computation Element (PCE)-Based

,

, August 2006,

<https://www.rfc-

 and

J.L. Le Roux, Ed. "Path Computation Element (PCE)

Ash, J., Ed.
Communication Protocol Generic Requirements" RFC 4657 DOI 10.17487/
RFC4657

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4657>

, September 2006,

,

,

,

.

Lang, J.P., Ed. Rekhter, Y., Ed.
,
Support of End-to-End Generalized Multi-Protocol Label Switching (GMPLS)
Recovery" RFC 4872 DOI 10.17487/RFC4872
,
editor.org/info/rfc4872>

D. Papadimitriou, Ed. "RSVP-TE Extensions in
,

<https://www.rfc-

, May 2007,

, and

,

.

Berger, L. Bryskin, I. Papadimitriou, D.
,
Recovery" RFC 4873 DOI 10.17487/RFC4873
,
editor.org/info/rfc4873>

,
,

, and

.

,
, May 2007,

A. Farrel "GMPLS Segment
<https://www.rfc-

,

Farrel, A. "Inclusion of Manageability Sections in Path Computation Element
(PCE) Working Group Drafts" RFC 6123 DOI 10.17487/RFC6123
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6123>

, February 2011,

,

.

,

Otani, T. Ogaki, K. Caviglia, D. Zhang, F.
,
GMPLS Applications of PCE" RFC 7025 DOI 10.17487/RFC7025
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7025>

, and

,

,

,

.

C. Margaria "Requirements for

, September 2013,

Farrel, A.
Architecture" RFC 7399 DOI 10.17487/RFC7399
,
editor.org/info/rfc7399>
.

D. King "Unanswered Questions in the Path Computation Element
 and
<https://www.rfc-
,

, October 2014,

,

Zhang, X., Ed.
 and
Element (PCE)" RFC 8051 DOI 10.17487/RFC8051
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8051>

,

,

.

I. Minei, Ed. "Applicability of a Stateful Path Computation

, January 2017,

<https://

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

, June

,

,

Crabbe, E. Minei, I. Medved, J. Varga, R. Zhang, X.
"Optimizations of Label Switched Path State Synchronization Procedures for a
Stateful PCE" RFC 8232 DOI 10.17487/RFC8232
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8232>

, September 2017,

D. Dhody

<https://

, and

,

,

,

,

.

Lee, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9504

Stateful PCEP for GMPLS

December 2023

[RFC8282]

[RFC8623]

[RFC8745]

,

,

Oki, E. Takeda, T. Farrel, A.
Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) for Inter-Layer MPLS and GMPLS
Traffic Engineering" RFC 8282 DOI 10.17487/RFC8282
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8282>

F. Zhang "Extensions to the Path Computation

, December 2017,

<https://

, and

.

,

,

,

,

,

Palle, U. Dhody, D. Tanaka, Y.
Element (PCE) Protocol Extensions for Usage with Point-to-Multipoint TE Label
Switched Paths (LSPs)" RFC 8623 DOI 10.17487/RFC8623
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8623>
.

V. Beeram "Stateful Path Computation

, June 2019,

<https://

, and

,

,

,

Ananthakrishnan, H. Sivabalan, S. Barth, C. Minei, I.
,
Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for
Associating Working and Protection Label Switched Paths (LSPs) with Stateful
PCE" RFC 8745 DOI 10.17487/RFC8745
info/rfc8745>

M. Negi "Path

, March 2020,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, and

,

,

,

.

,

[YANG-PATH-COMPUTATION]

Busi, I., Ed. Belotti, S., Ed. de Dios, O. G. Sharma, A.
,

Y. Shi
, and
,
"A YANG Data Model for requesting path computation" Work in Progress
,
Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-teas-yang-path-computation-21
<https://
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-teas-yang-path-computation-21>

, 7 July 2023,

,

.

,

,

Appendix A.  PCEP Messages

This section uses the Routing Backus-Naur Form (RBNF)
messages. The RBNF in this section is reproduced for informative purposes. It is also expanded to
show the GMPLS-specific objects.

 to illustrate the PCEP

[RFC5511]

A.1.  The PCRpt Message

According to
document extends the message in reporting the status of LSPs with GMPLS characteristics.

, the PCRpt message is used to report the current state of an LSP. This

[RFC8231]

The format of the PCRpt message is as follows:

<PCRpt Message> ::= <Common Header>
                    <state-report-list>

Where:

<state-report-list> ::= <state-report>[<state-report-list>]
<state-report> ::= [<SRP>]
                   <LSP>
                   [<END-POINTS>]
                   <path>

Where:

Lee, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9504

Stateful PCEP for GMPLS

December 2023

<path> ::= <intended-path>
           [<actual-attribute-list><actual-path>]
           <intended-attribute-list>
<actual-attribute-list> ::=[<BANDWIDTH>]
                           [<metric-list>]

Where:

•

The END-POINTS object
LSP-EXTENDED-FLAG TLV in the LSP object for a GMPLS LSP.

MUST

 be carried in a PCRpt message when the G flag is set in the

•

<intended-path> is represented by the ERO object defined in
 with ELC.
augmented in

[RFC8779]

Section 7.9 of [RFC5440]

 and

•

<actual-attribute-list> consists of the actual computed and signaled values of the
<BANDWIDTH> and <metric-lists> objects defined in

[RFC5440]

.

•

<actual-path> is represented by the RRO object defined in

Section 7.10 of [RFC5440]

.

•

<intended-attribute-list> is the attribute-list defined in
 and extended
by many other documents that define PCEP extensions for specific scenarios as shown below:

Section 6.5 of [RFC5440]

<attribute-list> ::= [<of-list>]
                     [<LSPA>]
                     [<BANDWIDTH>]
                     [<metric-list>]
                     [<IRO>][<XRO>]
                     [<INTER-LAYER>]
                     [<SWITCH-LAYER>]
                     [<REQ-ADAP-CAP>]
                     [<SERVER-INDICATION>]

A.2.  The PCUpd Message

The format of a PCUpd message is as follows:

<PCUpd Message> ::= <Common Header>
                    <update-request-list>

Where:

<update-request-list> ::= <update-request>[<update-request-list>]
<update-request> ::= <SRP>
                     <LSP>
                     [<END-POINTS>]
                     <path>

Where:

Lee, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9504

Stateful PCEP for GMPLS

December 2023

<path> ::= <intended-path><intended-attribute-list>

Where:

•

The END-POINTS object

MUST

 be carried in a PCUpd message for the GMPLS LSP.

•

<intended-path> is represented by the ERO object defined in
 with ELC.
augmented in

[RFC8779]

Section 7.9 of [RFC5440]
,

•

<intended-attribute-list> is the attribute-list defined in
other documents that define PCEP extensions for specific scenarios and as shown for PCRpt
above.

 and extended by many

[RFC5440]

A.3.  The PCInitiate Message

[RFC8281]

According to
extends the message in initiating LSPs with GMPLS characteristics. The format of a PCInitiate
message is as follows:

, the PCInitiate message is used allow LSP Initiation. This document

<PCInitiate Message> ::= <Common Header>
                         <PCE-initiated-lsp-list>

Where:

<Common Header> is defined in <xref target="RFC5440" />.
<PCE-initiated-lsp-list> ::= <PCE-initiated-lsp-request>
                             [<PCE-initiated-lsp-list>]
<PCE-initiated-lsp-request> ::= (<PCE-initiated-lsp-instantiation>|
                                 <PCE-initiated-lsp-deletion>)
<PCE-initiated-lsp-instantiation> ::= <SRP>
                                      <LSP>
                                      [<END-POINTS>]
                                      <ERO>
                                      [<attribute-list>]
<PCE-initiated-lsp-deletion> ::= <SRP>
                                 <LSP>

The format of the PCInitiate message is unchanged from
similar to the PCRpt and the PCUpd messages.

Section 5.1 of [RFC8281]

. All fields are

Acknowledgements

We would like to thank
John Scudder
and

,
 for the useful comments and discussions.

Adrian Farrel Cyril Margaria George Swallow Jan Medved Sue Hares
,

,

,

,

Thanks to

Dhruv Dhody

 for Shepherding this document and providing useful comments.

Lee, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9504

Stateful PCEP for GMPLS

December 2023

Contributors

Xian Zhang
Huawei Technologies
Email:

 zhang.xian@huawei.com

Dhruv Dhody
Huawei Technology
India
Email:

 dhruv.ietf@gmail.com

Yi Lin
Huawei Technologies
Email:

 yi.lin@huawei.com

Fatai Zhang
Huawei Technologies
Email:

 zhangfatai@huawei.com

Ramon Casellas
CTTC
Av. Carl Friedrich Gauss n7
08860 Barcelona Castelldefels
Spain
Email:

 ramon.casellas@cttc.es

Siva Sivabalan
Cisco Systems
Email:

 msiva@cisco.com

Clarence Filsfils
Cisco Systems
Email:

 cfilsfil@cisco.com

Robert Varga
Pantheon Technologies
Email:
 nite@hq.sk

Authors' Addresses

Young Lee
Samsung
Email:

 younglee.tx@gmail.com

Lee, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9504

Stateful PCEP for GMPLS

December 2023

Haomian Zheng
Huawei Technologies
Email:

 zhenghaomian@huawei.com

Oscar Gonzalez de Dios
Telefonica
Email:

 oscar.gonzalezdedios@telefonica.com

Victor Lopez
Nokia
Email:

 victor.lopez@nokia.com

Zafar Ali
Cisco
Email:

 zali@cisco.com

Lee, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

