Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9360
Standards Track
February 2023
2070-1721
J. Schaad
August Cellars

RFC 9360
CBOR Object Signing and Encryption (COSE): Header
Parameters for Carrying and Referencing X.509
Certificates

Abstract

The CBOR Object Signing and Encryption (COSE) message structure uses references to keys in
general. For some algorithms, additional properties are defined that carry parameters relating to
keys as needed. The COSE Key structure is used for transporting keys outside of COSE messages.
This document extends the way that keys can be identified and transported by providing
attributes that refer to or contain X.509 certificates.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9360
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Schaad

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9360

COSE X.509

February 2023

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Terminology

2.  X.509 COSE Header Parameters

3.  X.509 Certificates and Static-Static ECDH

4.  IANA Considerations

4.1.  COSE Header Parameters Registry

4.2.  COSE Header Algorithm Parameters Registry

4.3.  Media Type application/cose-x509

5.  Security Considerations

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

6.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

 and

[RFC8152]

[RFC9052]
In the process of writing
(COSE) Working Group discussed X.509 certificates
presented that showed a need to support certificates. Since that time, a number of cases have
been defined in which X.509 certificate support is necessary, and by implication, applications will
need a documented and consistent way to handle such certificates. This document defines a set
of attributes that will allow applications to transport and refer to X.509 certificates in a consistent
manner.

, the CBOR Object Signing and Encryption
[RFC5280]

 and decided that no use cases were

In some of these cases, a constrained device is being deployed in the context of an existing X.509
[Constrained-BRSKI]
PKI: for example,
presence of a factory-installed certificate on the device.
that long-term certificates could be used to provide for authentication of devices and establish
session keys. Another possible scenario is the use of COSE as the basis for a secure messaging

 describes a device enrollment solution that relies on the
 was also written with the idea

[EDHOC]

Schaad

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9360

COSE X.509

February 2023

application. This scenario assumes the presence of long-term keys and a central authentication
authority. Basing such an application on public key certificates allows it to make use of well-
established key management disciplines.

1.1.  Requirements Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  X.509 COSE Header Parameters

The use of X.509 certificates allows for an existing trust infrastructure to be used with COSE. This
includes the full suite of enrollment protocols, trust anchors, trust chaining, and revocation
checking that have been defined over time by the IETF and other organizations. The Concise
Binary Object Representation (CBOR) key structures
currently do not support all of these properties, although some may be found in CBOR Web
Tokens (CWTs)

 that have been defined in COSE

[RFC8392]
.

[RFC8949]

It is not necessarily expected that constrained devices themselves will evaluate and process X.509
certificates: it is perfectly reasonable for a constrained device to be provisioned with a certificate
that it subsequently provides to a relying party -- along with a signature or encrypted message --
on the assumption that the relying party is not a constrained device and is capable of performing
the required certificate evaluation and processing. It is also reasonable that a constrained device
would have the hash of a certificate associated with a public key and be configured to use a
public key for that thumbprint, but without performing the certificate evaluation or even having
the entire certificate. In any case, there still needs to be an entity that is responsible for handling
the possible certificate revocation.

[RFC5280]

 or by using a different trust structure, such as a trusted certificate distributor for

Parties that intend to rely on the assertions made by a certificate obtained from any of these
methods still need to validate it. This validation can be done according to the PKIX rules specified
in
self-signed certificates. The PKIX validation includes matching against the trust anchors
configured for the application. These rules apply when the validation succeeds in a single step as
well as when certificate chains need to be built. If the application cannot establish trust in the
certificate, the public key contained in the certificate cannot be used for cryptographic
operations.

The header parameters defined in this document are as follows:

x5bag:

This header parameter contains a bag of X.509 certificates. The set of certificates in this

header parameter is unordered and may contain self-signed certificates. Note that there could
be duplicate certificates. The certificate bag can contain certificates that are completely
extraneous to the message. (An example of this would be where a signed message is being
used to transport a certificate containing a key agreement key.) As the certificates are

Schaad

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9360

COSE X.509

February 2023

unordered, the party evaluating the signature will need to be capable of building the
certificate path as necessary. That party will also have to take into account that the bag may
not contain the full set of certificates needed to build any particular chain.

MUST

 process any certificates in this parameter as untrusted input. The
 cause the update of the set of

The trust mechanism
presence of a self-signed certificate in the parameter
trust anchors without some out-of-band confirmation. As the contents of this header
parameter are untrusted input, the header parameter can be in either the protected or
unprotected header bucket. Sending the header parameter in the unprotected header bucket
allows an intermediary to remove or add certificates.

MUST NOT

The end-entity certificate
by sending the header parameter in the protected header, sending an 'x5bag' in the
unprotected header combined with an 'x5t' in the protected header, or including the end-
entity certificate in the external_aad.

 be integrity protected by COSE. This can, for example, be done

MUST

This header parameter allows for a single X.509 certificate or a bag of X.509 certificates to be
carried in the message.

•

If a single certificate is conveyed, it is placed in a CBOR byte string.

•

If multiple certificates are conveyed, a CBOR array of byte strings is used, with each
certificate being in its own byte string.

x5chain:

This header parameter contains an ordered array of X.509 certificates. The certificates

are to be ordered starting with the certificate containing the end-entity key followed by the
certificate that signed it, and so on. There is no requirement for the entire chain to be present
in the element if there is reason to believe that the relying party already has, or can locate,
the missing certificates. This means that the relying party is still required to do path building
but that a candidate path is proposed in this header parameter.

MUST

 process any certificates in this parameter as untrusted input. The
 cause the update of the set of

The trust mechanism
presence of a self-signed certificate in the parameter
trust anchors without some out-of-band confirmation. As the contents of this header
parameter are untrusted input, the header parameter can be in either the protected or
unprotected header bucket. Sending the header parameter in the unprotected header bucket
allows an intermediary to remove or add certificates.

MUST NOT

The end-entity certificate
by sending the header parameter in the protected header, sending an 'x5chain' in the
unprotected header combined with an 'x5t' in the protected header, or including the end-
entity certificate in the external_aad.

 be integrity protected by COSE. This can, for example, be done

MUST

This header parameter allows for a single X.509 certificate or a chain of X.509 certificates to
be carried in the message.

•

If a single certificate is conveyed, it is placed in a CBOR byte string.

Schaad

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9360

COSE X.509

February 2023

•

If multiple certificates are conveyed, a CBOR array of byte strings is used, with each
certificate being in its own byte string.

x5t:

This header parameter identifies the end-entity X.509 certificate by a hash value (a

thumbprint). The 'x5t' header parameter is represented as an array of two elements. The first
element is an algorithm identifier that is an integer or a string containing the hash algorithm
identifier corresponding to the Value column (integer or text string) of the algorithm
registered in the "COSE Algorithms" registry (see
The second element is a binary string containing the hash value computed over the DER-
encoded certificate.

<https://www.iana.org/assignments/cose/>

).

As this header parameter does not provide any trust, the header parameter can be in either a
protected or unprotected header bucket.

The identification of the end-entity certificate
be done by sending the header parameter in the protected header or including the end-entity
certificate in the external_aad.

 be integrity protected by COSE. This can

MUST

The 'x5t' header parameter can be used alone or together with the 'x5bag', 'x5chain', or 'x5u'
header parameters to provide integrity protection of the end-entity certificate.

For interoperability, applications that use this header parameter
algorithm 'SHA-256' but can use other hash algorithms. This requirement allows for different
implementations to be configured to use an interoperable algorithm, but does not preclude
the use (by prior agreement) of other algorithms.

 support the hash

MUST

x5u:

This header parameter provides the ability to identify an X.509 certificate by a URI

[RFC3986]
media types:

. It contains a CBOR text string. The referenced resource can be any of the following

•

application/pkix-cert

[RFC2585]

•

application/pkcs7-mime; smime-type="certs-only"

[RFC8551]

•

application/cose-x509 (Section 4.3)

•

application/cose-x509; usage=chain (Section 4.3)

When the application/cose-x509 media type is used, the data is a CBOR sequence of single-
entry COSE_X509 structures (encoding "bstr"). If the parameter "usage" is set to "chain", this
sequence indicates a certificate chain.

The end-entity certificate
by sending the 'x5u' in the unprotected or protected header combined with an 'x5t' in the
protected header, or including the end-entity certificate in the external_aad. As the end-entity
certificate is integrity protected by COSE, the URI does not need to provide any protection.

 be integrity protected by COSE. This can, for example, be done

MUST

If a retrieved certificate does not chain to an existing trust anchor, that certificate
be trusted unless the URI provides integrity protection and server authentication and the
server is configured as trusted to provide new trust anchors or if an out-of-band confirmation
can be received for trusting the retrieved certificate. If an HTTP or Constrained Application

MUST NOT

Schaad

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9360

COSE X.509

February 2023

Protocol (CoAP) GET request is used to retrieve a certificate, TLS
or Object Security for Constrained RESTful Environments (OSCORE)
used.

[RFC8446]

, DTLS
[RFC8613] SHOULD

[RFC9147]
,

 be

The header parameters are used in the following locations:

COSE_Signature and COSE_Sign1 objects:

In these objects, the parameters identify the certificate

to be used for validating the signature.

COSE_recipient objects:
of the message.

In this location, the parameters identify the certificate for the recipient

The labels assigned to each header parameter can be found in Table 1.

Name

Label

Value Type

Description

x5bag

32

COSE_X509

An unordered bag of X.509 certificates

x5chain

33

COSE_X509

An ordered chain of X.509 certificates

x5t

x5u

34

35

COSE_CertHash Hash of an X.509 certificate

uri

URI pointing to an X.509 certificate

Table 1: X.509 COSE Header Parameters

Below is an equivalent Concise Data Definition Language (CDDL) description (see
the text above.

[RFC8610]

) of

COSE_X509 = bstr / [ 2*certs: bstr ]
COSE_CertHash = [ hashAlg: (int / tstr), hashValue: bstr ]

The contents of "bstr" are the bytes of a DER-encoded certificate.

3.  X.509 Certificates and Static-Static ECDH

The header parameters defined in the previous section are used to identify the recipient
certificates for the Elliptic Curve Diffie-Hellman (ECDH) key agreement algorithms. In this
section, we define the algorithm-specific parameters that are used for identifying or transporting
the sender's key for static-static key agreement algorithms.

These attributes are defined analogously to those in the previous section. There is no definition
for the certificate bag, as the same attribute would be used for both the sender and recipient
certificates.

Schaad

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9360

COSE X.509

February 2023

x5chain-sender:

This header parameter contains the chain of certificates starting with the sender's key
exchange certificate. The structure is the same as 'x5chain'.

x5t-sender:

This header parameter contains the hash value for the sender's key exchange certificate. The
structure is the same as 'x5t'.

x5u-sender:

This header parameter contains a URI for the sender's key exchange certificate. The structure
and processing are the same as 'x5u'.

Name

Label

Type

Algorithm

Description

x5t-
sender

-27

COSE_CertHash

x5u-
sender

-28

uri

x5chain-
sender

-29

COSE_X509

ECDH-SS+HKDF-256, ECDH-
SS+HKDF-512, ECDH-
SS+A128KW, ECDH-
SS+A192KW, ECDH-
SS+A256KW

ECDH-SS+HKDF-256, ECDH-
SS+HKDF-512, ECDH-
SS+A128KW, ECDH-
SS+A192KW, ECDH-
SS+A256KW

ECDH-SS+HKDF-256, ECDH-
SS+HKDF-512, ECDH-
SS+A128KW, ECDH-
SS+A192KW, ECDH-
SS+A256KW

Thumbprint for
the sender's X.509
certificate

URI for the
sender's X.509
certificate

static key X.509
certificate chain

Table 2: Static ECDH Algorithm Values

4.  IANA Considerations

4.1.  COSE Header Parameters Registry

IANA has registered the new COSE Header parameters in Table 1 in the "COSE Header
Parameters" registry. The "Value Registry" field is empty for all of the items. For each item, the
"Reference" field points to this document.

4.2.  COSE Header Algorithm Parameters Registry

IANA has registered the new COSE Header Algorithm parameters in Table 2 in the "COSE Header
Algorithm Parameters" registry. For each item, the "Reference" field points to this document.

Schaad

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9360

COSE X.509

February 2023

4.3.  Media Type application/cose-x509

When the application/cose-x509 media type is used, the data is a CBOR sequence of single-entry
COSE_X509 structures (encoding "bstr"). If the parameter "usage" is set to "chain", this sequence
indicates a certificate chain.

IANA has registered the following media type

[RFC6838]
:

Type name:

application

Subtype name:

cose-x509

Required parameters:

N/A

Optional parameters:

usage

•

Can be absent to provide no further information about the intended meaning of the order
in the CBOR sequence of certificates.

•

Can be set to "chain" to indicate that the sequence of data items is to be interpreted as a
certificate chain.

Encoding considerations:

binary

Security considerations:

See the Security Considerations section of RFC 9360.

Interoperability considerations:

N/A

Published specification:

RFC 9360

Applications that use this media type:

Applications that employ COSE and use X.509 as a

certificate type.

Fragment identifier considerations:

N/A

Additional information:

Deprecated alias names for this type:
Magic number(s):
File extension(s):
Macintosh file type code(s):

N/A
N/A

N/A

N/A

Person & email address to contact for further information:

iesg@ietf.org

Intended usage:

COMMON

Restrictions on usage:

N/A

Author:

COSE WG

Schaad

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9360

COSE X.509

February 2023

Change controller:

IESG

5.  Security Considerations

Establishing trust in a certificate is a vital part of processing. A major component of establishing
trust is determining what the set of trust anchors are for the process. A new self-signed
certificate appearing on the client cannot be a trigger to modify the set of trust anchors, because
a well-defined trust-establishment process is required. One common way for a new trust anchor
to be added to (or removed from) a device is by doing a new firmware upgrade.

In constrained systems, there is a trade-off between the order of checking the signature and
checking the certificate for validity. Validating certificates can require that network resources be
accessed in order to get revocation information or retrieve certificates during path building. The
resulting network access can consume power and network bandwidth. On the other hand, if the
certificates are validated after the signature is validated, an oracle can potentially be built based
on detecting the network resources, which is only done if the signature validation passes. In any
event, both the signature validation and the certificate validation
successfully before acting on any requests.

 be completed

MUST

Unless it is known that the Certificate Authority (CA) required proof of possession of the subject's
private key to issue an end-entity certificate, the end-entity certificate
protected by COSE. Without proof of possession, an attacker can trick the CA into issuing an
identity-misbinding certificate with someone else's "borrowed" public key but with a different
subject. An on-path attacker can then perform an identity-misbinding attack by replacing the
real end-entity certificate in COSE with such an identity-misbinding certificate.

 be integrity

MUST

End-entity X.509 certificates contain identities that a passive on-path attacker eavesdropping on
the conversation can use to identify and track the subject. COSE does not provide identity
protection by itself, and the 'x5t' and 'x5u' header parameters are just alternative permanent
identifiers and can also be used to track the subject. To provide identity protection, COSE can be
sent inside another security protocol providing confidentiality.

Before using the key in a certificate, the key
MUST
and any algorithm-specific checks need to be made. These checks can include validating that
points are on curves for elliptical curve algorithms and that the sizes of RSA keys are within an
acceptable range. The use of unvalidated keys can lead to either loss of security or excessive
consumption of resources (for example, using a 200K RSA key).

 be checked against the algorithm to be used,

When processing the 'x5u' header parameter, the security considerations of
specifically those defined in

Section 7.1 of [RFC3986]

, also apply.

[RFC3986]

, and

Regardless of the source, certification path validation is an important part of establishing trust in
a certificate.
considerations of

 are also important for the correct usage of this document.

 provides guidance for the path validation. The security

Section 6 of [RFC5280]

[RFC5280]

Schaad

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9360

COSE X.509

February 2023

Protecting the integrity of the 'x5bag', 'x5chain', and 'x5t' contents by placing them in the
protected header bucket can help mitigate some risks of a misbehaving CA (cf.
[RFC2634]

).

Section 5.1 of

The security of the algorithm used for 'x5t' does not affect the security of the system, as this
header parameter selects which certificate that is already present on the system should be used,
but it does not provide any trust.

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC5280]

[RFC8152]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8949]

[RFC9052]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

,

Cooper, D. Santesson, S. Farrell, S. Boeyen, S. Housley, R.
"Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certificate and Certificate Revocation
List (CRL) Profile" RFC 5280 DOI 10.17487/RFC5280
editor.org/info/rfc5280>

, May 2008,

<https://www.rfc-

W. Polk

, and

,

,

,

,

,

.

Schaad, J. "CBOR Object Signing and Encryption (COSE)" RFC 8152 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8152>
10.17487/RFC8152
.

, July 2017,

,

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Bormann, C.
STD 94 RFC 8949 DOI 10.17487/RFC8949
editor.org/info/rfc8949>

P. Hoffman "Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR)"
 and
<https://www.rfc-
,

, December 2020,

,

,

.

,

,

Schaad, J. "CBOR Object Signing and Encryption (COSE): Structures and
Process" STD 96 RFC 9052 DOI 10.17487/RFC9052
<https://
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9052>

, August 2022,

,

,

.

6.2.  Informative References

[Constrained-BRSKI]

,

Richardson, M. van der Stok, P. Kampanakis, P.

,
Bootstrapping Remote Secure Key Infrastructure (BRSKI)" Work in Progress
Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-anima-constrained-voucher-19
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-anima-constrained-voucher-19>

, 2 January 2023,
.

, and
,

E. Dijk "Constrained

,

,
<https://

[EDHOC]

,

Selander, G. Preuß Mattsson, J.
Over COSE (EDHOC)" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-lake-edhoc-19
,
,
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-lake-edhoc-19>
3 February 2023,
.

F. Palombini "Ephemeral Diffie-Hellman

, and

,

,

Schaad

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9360

COSE X.509

February 2023

[RFC2585]

[RFC2634]

[RFC3986]

[RFC6838]

[RFC8392]

[RFC8446]

[RFC8551]

[RFC8610]

[RFC8613]

[RFC9147]

 and

P. Hoffman "Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure

Housley, R.
Operational Protocols: FTP and HTTP" RFC 2585 DOI 10.17487/RFC2585
1999,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2585>

,

,

,

.

, May

Hoffman, P., Ed. "Enhanced Security Services for S/MIME" RFC 2634 DOI
10.17487/RFC2634
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2634>

, June 1999,

,

,

,

,

Berners-Lee, T. Fielding, R.
, and
Generic Syntax" STD 66 RFC 3986 DOI 10.17487/RFC3986
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3986>

,

,

,

.

L. Masinter "Uniform Resource Identifier (URI):

,

, January 2005,

Freed, N. Klensin, J.
,
Procedures" BCP 13 RFC 6838 DOI 10.17487/RFC6838
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6838>

, and
,

,

,

.

T. Hansen "Media Type Specifications and Registration

,

, January 2013,

<https://

,

Jones, M. Wahlstroem, E. Erdtman, S.
(CWT)" RFC 8392 DOI 10.17487/RFC8392
,
info/rfc8392>

,

,

.

, and

H. Tschofenig "CBOR Web Token

,

, May 2018,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
,
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>

, August 2018,

,

.

,

Schaad, J. Ramsdell, B.
Extensions (S/MIME) Version 4.0 Message Specification" RFC 8551 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8551

S. Turner "Secure/Multipurpose Internet Mail

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8551>

, April 2019,

, and

,

,

,

.

, and

Birkholz, H. Vigano, C.
,
(CDDL): A Notational Convention to Express Concise Binary Object
Representation (CBOR) and JSON Data Structures" RFC 8610 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8610

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8610>

C. Bormann "Concise Data Definition Language

, June 2019,

,

,

.

,

Selander, G. Mattsson, J. Palombini, F.
L. Seitz "Object Security for
Constrained RESTful Environments (OSCORE)" RFC 8613 DOI 10.17487/
,
RFC8613

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8613>

, July 2019,

, and

,

,

,

.

,

Rescorla, E. Tschofenig, H.
Security (DTLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 9147 DOI 10.17487/RFC9147
2022,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9147>

N. Modadugu "The Datagram Transport Layer

, April

, and

,
.

,

,

Acknowledgements

Ivaylo Petrov
Jim Schaad
 passed on 3 October 2020. This document is primarily his work.
as the document editor after Jim's untimely death, mostly helping with the approval and
publication processes. Jim deserves all credit for the technical content.

 served

Schaad

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9360

COSE X.509

February 2023

Author's Address

Jim Schaad
August Cellars

Schaad

Standards Track

Page 12

