Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9524
Standards Track
February 2024
2070-1721
D. Voyer,
Bell Canada

C. Filsfils
Cisco Systems, Inc.

 Ed.

R. Parekh
Cisco Systems, Inc.

H. Bidgoli
Nokia

Z. Zhang
Juniper Networks

RFC 9524
Segment Routing Replication for Multipoint Service
Delivery

Abstract

This document describes the Segment Routing Replication segment for multipoint service
delivery. A Replication segment allows a packet to be replicated from a replication node to
downstream nodes.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9524
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Voyer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9524

SR Replication Segment

February 2024

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Terminology

1.2.  Use Cases

2.  Replication Segment

2.1.  SR-MPLS Data Plane

2.2.  SRv6 Data Plane

2.2.1.  End.Replicate: Replicate and/or Decapsulate

2.2.2.  OAM Operations

2.2.3.  ICMPv6 Error Messages

3.  IANA Considerations

4.  Security Considerations

5.  References

5.1.  Normative References

5.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Illustration of a Replication Segment

A.1.  SR-MPLS

A.2.  SRv6

A.2.1.  Pinging a Replication-SID

Acknowledgements

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

3

3

4

4

6

6

8

10

11

11

12

13

13

14

15

15

17

19

19

20

21

Voyer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9524

SR Replication Segment

February 2024

1.  Introduction

[RFC8402]

The Replication segment is a new type of segment for Segment Routing (SR)
allows a node (henceforth called a "replication node") to replicate packets to a set of other nodes
(called "downstream nodes") in an SR domain. A Replication segment can replicate packets to
directly connected nodes or to downstream nodes (without the need for state on the transit
routers). This document focuses on specifying the behavior of a Replication segment for both
Segment Routing with Multiprotocol Label Switching (SR-MPLS)
with IPv6 (SRv6)
Segment in an SR domain. The use of two or more Replication segments stitched together to form
a tree using a control plane is left to be specified in other documents. The management of IP
multicast groups, building IP multicast trees, and performing multicast congestion control are
out of scope of this document.

 and Segment Routing
. The examples in Appendix A illustrate the behavior of a Replication

[RFC8660]

[RFC8986]

, which

1.1.  Terminology

This section defines terms introduced and used frequently in this document. Refer to the
 for other terms used in SR.
Terminology sections of

[RFC8402] [RFC8754]
,

[RFC8986]

, and

Replication segment:

A segment in an SR domain that replicates packets. See Section 2 for

details.

Replication node:
segment.

A node in an SR domain that replicates packets based on a Replication

Downstream nodes:

A Replication segment replicates packets to a set of nodes. These nodes are

downstream nodes.

Replication state:

State held for a Replication segment at a replication node. It is conceptually a

list of Replication branches to downstream nodes. The list can be empty.

Replication-SID:

Data plane identifier of a Replication segment. This is an SR-MPLS label or

SRv6 Segment Identifier (SID).

SRH:

IPv6 Segment Routing Header

[RFC8754]

.

Point-to-Multipoint (P2MP) Service:

A service that has one ingress node and one or more egress

nodes. A packet is delivered to all the egress nodes.

Root node:

An ingress node of a P2MP service.

Leaf node:

An egress node of a P2MP service.

Bud node:

A node that is both a replication node and a leaf node.

Voyer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9524

SR Replication Segment

February 2024

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

1.2.  Use Cases

In the simplest use case, a single Replication segment includes the ingress node of a multipoint
service and the egress nodes of the service as all the downstream nodes. This achieves Ingress
[RFC7988]
Replication
Ethernet VPN (EVPN)
traffic. This Replication segment on ingress and egress nodes can either be provisioned locally or
using dynamic autodiscovery procedures for MVPN and EVPN. Note
End.DT2M replication behavior for EVPN BUM traffic.

 that has been widely used for Multicast VPN (MVPN)
[RFC7432]

 bridging of Broadcast, Unknown Unicast, and Multicast (BUM)

SRv6 [RFC8986]

[RFC6513]

 and

 has

Replication segments can also be used to form trees by stitching Replication segments on a root
node, intermediate replication nodes, and leaf nodes for efficient delivery of MVPN and EVPN
BUM traffic.

2.  Replication Segment

In an SR domain, a Replication segment is a logical construct that connects a replication node to a
set of downstream nodes. A Replication segment is a local segment instantiated at a Replication
node. It can be either provisioned locally on a node or programmed by a control plane.

Replication segments can be stitched together to form a tree by either local provisioning on
nodes or using a control plane. The procedures for doing this are out of scope of this document.
One such control plane using a PCE with the SR P2MP policy is specified in
However, if local provisioning is used to stitch Replication segments, then a chain of Replication
segments
 form a loop. If a control plane is used to stitch Replication segments, the
control plane specification

 prevent loops or detect and mitigate loops in steady state.

[P2MP-POLICY]
.

SHOULD NOT

MUST

A Replication segment is identified by the tuple <Replication-ID, Node-ID>, where:

Replication-ID:

An identifier for a Replication segment that is unique in context of the

replication node.

Node-ID:

The address of the replication node for the Replication segment. Note that the root of a

multipoint service is also a Replication node.

Replication-ID is a variable-length field. In the simplest case, it can be a 32-bit number, but it can
be extended or modified as required based on the specific use of a Replication segment. This is
out of scope for this document. The length of the Replication-ID is specified in the signaling
mechanism used for the Replication segment. Examples of such signaling and extensions are
described in
<Replication-ID, Node-ID> tuple identifies the segment.

. When the PCE signals a Replication segment to its node, the

[P2MP-POLICY]

Voyer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9524

SR Replication Segment

February 2024

A Replication segment includes the following elements:

Replication-SID:
SRv6 SID

[RFC8402]

.

The Segment Identifier of a Replication segment. This is an SR-MPLS label or an

Downstream nodes:

Set of nodes in an SR domain to which a packet is replicated by the

Replication segment.

Replication state:

See below.

The downstream nodes and Replication state (RS) of a Replication segment can change over time,
depending on the network state and leaf nodes of a multipoint service that the segment is part of.

The Replication-SID identifies the Replication segment in the forwarding plane. At a replication
node, the Replication-SID operates on the RS of the Replication segment.

RS is a list of Replication branches to the downstream nodes. In this document, each branch is
abstracted to a <downstream node, downstream Replication-SID> tuple. <downstream node>
represents the reachability from the replication node to the downstream node. In its simplest
form, this
replication node. The reachability may be specified in terms of a Flexible Algorithm path
(including the default algorithm)
by a SID list (of one or more SIDs) or by a Segment Routing Policy
Replication-SID is the Replication-SID of the Replication segment at the downstream node.

 or specified by an SR-explicit path represented either
[RFC9256]

 be specified as an interface or next-hop if the downstream node is adjacent to the

. The downstream

[RFC9350]

MAY

A packet is steered into a Replication segment at a replication node in two ways:

•

When the active segment

[RFC8402]

 is a locally instantiated Replication-SID.

•

By the root of a multipoint service based on local configuration that is outside the scope of
this document.

In either case, the packet is replicated to each downstream node in the associated RS.

If a downstream node is an egress (leaf) of the multipoint service, no further replication is
needed. The leaf node's Replication segment has an indicator for the leaf role, and it does not
have any RS (i.e., the list of Replication branches is empty). The Replication-SID at a leaf node
 be used to identify the multipoint service. Notice that the segment on the leaf node is still
MAY
referred to as a "Replication segment" for the purpose of generalization.

A node can be a bud node (i.e., it is a replication node and a leaf node of a multipoint service
[P2MP-POLICY]
as a leaf role indicator.

). The Replication segment of a bud node has a list of Replication branches as well

In principle, it is possible for different Replication segments to replicate packets to the same
Replication segment on a downstream node. However, such usage is intentionally left out of
scope of this document.

Voyer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9524

SR Replication Segment

February 2024

2.1.  SR-MPLS Data Plane

When the active segment is a Replication-SID, the processing results in a POP
operation and the lookup of the associated RS. For each replication in the RS, the operation is a
PUSH
to steer the packet to the downstream node.

 of the downstream Replication-SID and an optional segment list onto the packet

[RFC8402]

[RFC8402]

The operation performed on the incoming Replication-SID is NEXT
node where delivery of payload off the tree is per local configuration. For some usages, this may
involve looking at the next SID, for example, to get the necessary context.

 at a leaf or bud

[RFC8402]

When the root of a multipoint service steers a packet to a Replication segment, it results in a
replication to each downstream node in the associated RS. The operation is a PUSH of the
Replication-SID and an optional segment list onto the packet, which is forwarded to the
downstream node.

The following applies to a Replication-SID in MPLS encapsulation:

•

MAY

SIDs
packet from a non-adjacent SR node to a replication node.

 be inserted before the downstream SR-MPLS Replication-SID in order to guide a

•

MAY

 replicate a packet to a non-adjacent downstream node using SIDs it

A replication node
inserts in the copy preceding the downstream Replication-SID. The downstream node may be
a leaf node of the Replication segment, another replication node, or both in the case of a bud
node.

•

MAY

 use an Anycast-SID or a Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) PeerSet-SID

A replication node
in the segment list to send a replicated packet to one downstream replication node in a set of
Anycast nodes. This occurs if and only if all nodes in the set have an identical Replication-SID
and reach the same set of receivers.

•

For some use cases, there
packet. These SIDs are used only by the leaf and bud nodes to forward a packet off the tree
independent of the Replication-SID. Coordination regarding the absence or presence and
value of context information for leaf and bud nodes is outside the scope of this document.

 be SIDs after the Replication-SID in the segment list of a

MAY

2.2.  SRv6 Data Plane

[RFC8986]

For SRv6
behavior (End.Replicate for short) to replicate a packet and forward the replicas according to an
RS.

, this document specifies "Endpoint with replication and/or decapsulate"

When processing a packet destined to a local Replication-SID, the packet is replicated according
to the associated RS to downstream nodes and/or locally delivered off the tree when this is a leaf
or bud node. For replication, the outer header is reused, and the downstream Replication-SID,
from RS, is written into the outer IPv6 header Destination Address (DA). If required, an optional
segment list may be used on some branches using H.Encaps.Red
branches may not need that). Note that this H.Encaps.Red is independent of the Replication
segment: it is just used to steer the replicated packet on a traffic-engineered path to a

 (while some other

[RFC8986]

Voyer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9524

SR Replication Segment

February 2024

downstream node. The penultimate segment in the encapsulating IPv6 header will execute the
Ultimate Segment Decapsulation (USD) flavor
inner (replicated) packet to the downstream node. If H.Encaps.Red is used to steer a replicated
packet to a downstream node, the operator must ensure the MTU on path to the downstream
node is sufficient to account for additional SRv6 encapsulation. This also applies when the
Replication segment is for the root node, whose upstream node has placed the Replication-SID in
the header.

 of End/End.X behavior and forward the

[RFC8986]

[RFC6513]

A local application on root (e.g., MVPN
H.Encaps.Red and then steer the resulting traffic into the Replication segment. Again, note that
H.Encaps.Red is independent of the Replication segment: it is the action of the application (e.g.
MVPN or EVPN service). If the service is on a root node, then the two H.Encaps mentioned, one
for the service and the other in the previous paragraph for replication to the downstream node,
SHOULD

 be combined for optimization (to avoid extra IPv6 encapsulation).

) may also apply

[RFC7432]

 or EVPN

 be

MUST

MUST

 be non-zero to replicate the packet. A root node that encapsulates a

When processing a packet destined to a local Replication-SID, the IPv6 Hop Limit
decremented and
payload can set the IPv6 Hop Limit based on a local policy. This local policy
 set the IPv6
Hop Limit so that a replicated packet can reach the furthest leaf node. A root node can also have
a local policy to set the IPv6 Hop Limit from the payload. In this case, the IPv6 Hop Limit may not
be sufficient to get the replicated packet to all the leaf nodes. Non-replication nodes (i.e., nodes
that forward replicated packets based on the IPv6 locator unicast prefix) can decrement the IPv6
Hop Limit to zero and originate ICMPv6 error packets to the root node. This can result in a storm
of ICMPv6 packets (see Section 2.2.3) to the root node. To avoid this, a Replication segment has an
optional IPv6 Hop Limit Threshold. If this threshold is set, a replication node
incoming packet with a local Replication-SID if the IPv6 Hop Limit in the packet is less than the
threshold and log this in a rate-limited manner. The IPv6 Hop Limit Threshold
that an incoming packet can be replicated to the furthest leaf node.

 discard an

 be set so

SHOULD

SHOULD

MUST

For leaf and bud nodes, local delivery off the tree is per Replication-SID or the next SID (if
present in the SRH). For some usages, this may involve getting the necessary context either from
the next SID (e.g., MVPN with a shared tree) or from the Replication-SID itself (e.g., MVPN with a
non-shared tree). In both cases, the context association is achieved with signaling and is out of
scope of this document.

The following applies to a Replication-SID in SRv6 encapsulation:

•

MAY

There
adjacent SR node to a replication node via an explicit path.

 be SIDs preceding the SRv6 Replication-SID in order to guide a packet from a non-

•

MAY

 steer a replicated packet on an explicit path to a non-adjacent

A replication node
downstream node using SIDs it inserts in the copy preceding the downstream Replication-
SID. The downstream node may be a leaf node of the Replication segment, another
replication node, or both in the case of a bud node.

•

For SRv6, as described in above paragraphs, the insertion of SIDs prior to the Replication-SID
entails a new IPv6 encapsulation with the SRH. However, this can be optimized on the root
node or for compressed SRv6 SIDs.

Voyer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9524

SR Replication Segment

February 2024

•

The locator of the Replication-SID is sufficient to guide a packet on the shortest path between
non-adjacent nodes for default or Flexible Algorithms.

•

MAY

 use an Anycast-SID or a BGP PeerSet-SID in the segment list to send a

A replication node
replicated packet to one downstream replication node in an Anycast set. This occurs if and
only if all nodes in the set have an identical Replication-SID and reach the same set of
receivers.

•

MAY

 be SIDs after the Replication-SID in the SRH of a packet. These SIDs are used to

There
provide additional context for processing a packet locally at the node where the Replication-
SID is the active segment. Coordination regarding the absence or presence and value of
context information for leaf and bud nodes is outside the scope of this document.

2.2.1.  End.Replicate: Replicate and/or Decapsulate

The "Endpoint with replication and/or decapsulate" (End.Replicate for short) is a variant of End
behavior. The pseudocode in this section follows the convention introduced in

[RFC8986]
.

An RS conceptually contains the following elements:

Replication state:
{
  Node-Role: {Head, Transit, Leaf, Bud};
  IPv6 Hop Limit Threshold; # default is zero
  # On Leaf, replication list is zero length
  Replication-List:
  {
    downstream node: <Node-Identifier>;
    downstream Replication-SID: R-SID;
    # Segment-List may be empty
    Segment-List: [SID-1, .... SID-N];
  }
}

Below is the Replicate function on a packet for Replication state (RS).

S01. Replicate(RS, packet)
S02. {
S03.    For each Replication R in RS.Replication-List {
S04.       Make a copy of the packet
S05.       Set IPv6 DA = RS.R-SID
S06.       If RS.Segment-List is not empty {
S07.         # Head node may optimize below encapsulation and
S08.         # the encapsulation of packet in a single encapsulation
S09.         Execute H.Encaps or H.Encaps.Red with RS.Segment-List
             on packet copy #RFC 8986, Sections 5.1 and 5.2
S10.       }
S11.       Submit the packet to the egress IPv6 FIB lookup and
           transmission to the new destination
S12.   }
S13. }

Voyer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9524

Notes:

SR Replication Segment

February 2024

•

The IPv6 DA in the copy of a packet is set from the local state and not from the SRH.

When N receives a packet whose IPv6 DA is S and S is a local End.Replicate SID, N does:

S01.   Lookup FUNCT portion of S to get Replication state (RS)
S02.   If (IPv6 Hop Limit <= 1) {
S03.     Discard the packet
S04.     # ICMPv6 Time Exceeded is not permitted
           (see Section 2.2.3)
S05.   }
S06.   If RS is not found {
S07.     Discard the packet
S08.   }
S09.   If (IPv6 Hop Limit < RS.IPv6 Hop Limit Threshold) {
S10.     Discard the packet
S11.     # Rate-limited logging
S12.   }
S13.   Decrement IPv6 Hop Limit by 1
S14.   If (IPv6 NH == SRH and SRH TLVs present) {
S15.     Process SRH TLVs if allowed by local configuration
S16.   }
S17.   Call Replicate(RS, packet)
S18.   If (RS.Node-Role == Leaf OR RS.Node-Role == bud) {
S19.     If (IPv6 NH == SRH and Segments Left > 0) {
S20.       Derive packet processing context (PPC) from Segment List
S21.       If (Segments Left != 0) {
S22.         Discard the packet
S23.         # ICMPv6 Parameter Problem message with Code 0
S24.         # (Erroneous header field encountered)
S25.         # is not permitted (Section 2.2.3)
S26.       }
S27.     } Else {
S28.       Derive packet processing context (PPC)
           from FUNCT of Replicatio-SID
S29.     }
S30.     Process the next header
S31.   }

The processing of the Upper-Layer header of a packet matching the End.Replicate SID at a leaf or
bud node is as follows:

Voyer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9524

SR Replication Segment

February 2024

S01.   If (Upper-Layer header type == 4(IPv4) OR
           Upper-Layer header type == 41(IPv6) ) {
S02.     Remove the outer IPv6 header with all its extension headers
S03.     Process the packet in context of PPC
S04.   } Else If (Upper-Layer header type == 143(Ethernet) ) {
S05.     Remove the outer IPv6 header with all its extension headers
S06.     Process the Ethernet Frame in context of PPC
S07.   } Else If (Upper-Layer header type is allowed
                  by local configuration) {
S08.     Proceed to process the Upper-Layer header
S09.   } Else {
S10.     Discard the packet
S11.     # ICMPv6 Parameter Problem message with Code 4
S12.     # (SR Upper-Layer header Error)
S13.     # is not permitted (Section 2.2.3)
S14.   }

Notes:

•

MAY

 result in a packet with a partially processed segment list in the SRH

The behavior above
under some circumstances. For example, a head node may encode a context-SID in an SRH.
As per the pseudocode above, a replication node that receives a packet with a local
Replication-SID will not process the SRH segment list and will just forward a copy with an
unmodified SRH to downstream nodes.

•

The packet processing context is usually a FIB table "T".

If configured to process TLVs, processing the Replication-SID may modify the "variable-length
data" of TLV types that change en route. Therefore, TLVs that change en route are mutable. The
remainder of the SRH (Segments Left, Flags, Tag, Segment List, and TLVs that do not change en
route) are immutable while processing this SID.

2.2.1.1.  Hashed Message Authentication Code (HMAC) SRH TLV

If a root node encodes a context-SID in an SRH with an optional HMAC SRH TLV
MUST
part of the segment list in the SRH.

, it
 because the Replication-SID is not

 set the 'D' bit as defined in

Section 2.1.2 of [RFC8754]

[RFC8754]

. Verification of an HMAC TLV is
HMAC generation and verification is as specified in
determined by local configuration. If verification fails, an implementation of a Replication-SID
 originate an ICMPv6 Parameter Problem message with code 0. The failure
MUST NOT
logged (rate-limited) and the packet

 be discarded.

[RFC8754]

SHOULD

SHOULD

 be

2.2.2.  OAM Operations

[RFC9259]
and traceroute on SRv6 SIDs.

 specifies procedures for Operations, Administration, and Maintenance (OAM) like ping

Assuming the source node knows the Replication-SID a priori, it is possible to ping a Replication-
SID of a leaf or bud node directly by putting it in the IPv6 DA without an SRH or in an SRH as the
last segment. While it is not possible to ping a Replication-SID of a transit node because transit

Voyer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9524

SR Replication Segment

February 2024

nodes do not process Upper-Layer headers, it is still possible to ping a Replication-SID of a leaf or
bud node of a tree via the Replication-SID of intermediate transit nodes. The source of the ping
 compute the ICMPv6 Echo Request checksum using the Replication-SID of the leaf or bud
MUST
node as the DA. The source can then send the Echo Request packet to a transit node's Replication-
SID. The transit node replicates the packet by replacing the IPv6 DA until the packet reaches the
leaf or bud node, which responds with an ICMPv6 Echo Reply. Note that a transit replication
node may replicate Echo Request packets to other leaf or bud nodes. These nodes will drop the
Echo Request due to an incorrect checksum. Procedures to prevent the misdelivery of an Echo
Request may be addressed in a future document. Appendix A.2.1 illustrates examples of a ping to
a Replication-SID.

Traceroute to a leaf or bud node Replication-SID is not possible due to restrictions prohibiting the
origination of the ICMPv6 Time Exceeded error message for a Replication-SID as described in
Section 2.2.3.

2.2.3.  ICMPv6 Error Messages

 states an ICMPv6 error message

Section 2.4 of [RFC4443]
 be originated as a result of
receiving a packet destined to an IPv6 multicast address. This is to prevent a source node from
being overwhelmed by a storm of ICMPv6 error messages resulting from replicated IPv6 packets.
There are two exceptions:

MUST NOT

1.

The Packet Too Big message for Path MTU discovery, and

2.

The ICMPv6 Parameter Problem message with Code 2 reporting an unrecognized IPv6
option.

An implementation of a Replication segment for SRv6
exceptions.

MUST

 enforce these same restrictions and

3.  IANA Considerations

IANA has assigned the following codepoint for End.Replicate behavior in the "SRv6 Endpoint
Behaviors" registry in the "Segment Routing" registry group.

Value

Hex

Endpoint Behavior

Reference

Change Controller

75

0x004B

End.Replicate

RFC 9524

IETF

Table 1: SRv6 Endpoint Behavior

Voyer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9524

SR Replication Segment

February 2024

4.  Security Considerations

The SID behaviors defined in this document are deployed within an SR domain
domain needs protection from outside attackers (as described in
brief reminder of the same:

[RFC8754]

[RFC8402]
). The following is a

. An SR

•

For SR-MPLS deployments:

◦
Disable MPLS on external interfaces of each edge node or any other technique to filter
labeled traffic ingress on these interfaces.

•

For SRv6 deployments:

◦
Allocate all the SIDs from an IPv6 prefix block S/s and configure each external interface of
each edge node of the domain with an inbound Infrastructure Access Control List (IACL)
that drops any incoming packet with a DA in S/s.
◦
Additionally, an IACL may be applied to all nodes (k) provisioning SIDs as defined in this
specification:

▪
Assign all interface addresses from within IPv6 prefix A/a. At node k, all SIDs local to k
are assigned from prefix Sk/sk. Configure each internal interface of each SR node k in
the SR domain with an inbound IACL that drops any incoming packet with a DA in Sk/sk
if the source address is not in A/a.

.

Deny traffic with spoofed source addresses by implementing recommendations in BCP 84
◦
[RFC3704]
Additionally, the block S/s from which SIDs are allocated may be an address that is not
◦
[SIDS-
globally routable such as a Unique Local Address (ULA) or the prefix defined in
SRv6]

.

Failure to protect the SR-MPLS domain by correctly provisioning MPLS support per interface
permits attackers from outside the domain to send packets that use the replication services
provisioned within the domain.

Failure to protect the SRv6 domain with IACLs on external interfaces combined with failure to
implement the recommendations of BCP 38
permits attackers from outside the SR domain to send packets that use the replication services
provisioned within the domain.

 or apply IACLs on nodes provisioning SIDs

[RFC2827]

Given the definition of the Replication segment in this document, an attacker subverting the
ingress filters above cannot take advantage of a stack of Replication segments to perform
amplification attacks nor link exhaustion attacks. Replication segment trees always terminate at
a leaf or bud node resulting in a decapsulation. However, this does allow an attacker to inject
traffic to the receivers within a P2MP service.

Voyer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9524

SR Replication Segment

February 2024

This document introduces an SR segment endpoint behavior that replicates and decapsulates an
inner payload for both the MPLS and IPv6 data planes. Similar to any MPLS end-of-stack label, or
SRv6 END.D* behavior, if the protections described above are not implemented, an attacker can
perform an attack via the decapsulating segment (including the one described in this document).

Incorrect provisioning of Replication segments can result in a chain of Replication segments
forming a loop. This can happen if Replication segments are provisioned on SR nodes without
using a control plane. In this case, replicated packets can create a storm until MPLS TTL (for SR-
MPLS) or IPv6 Hop Limit (for SRv6) decrements to zero. A control plane such as PCE can be used
to prevent loops. The control plane protocols (like Path Computation Element Communication
Protocol (PCEP), BGP, etc.) used to instantiate Replication segments can leverage their own
security mechanisms such as encryption, authentication filtering, etc.

For SRv6, Section 2.2.3 describes an exception for the ICMPv6 Parameter Problem message with
Code 2. If an attacker sends a packet destined to a Replication-SID with the source address of a
node and with an extension header using the unknown option type marked as mandatory, then a
large number of ICMPv6 Parameter Problem messages can cause a denial-of-service attack on the
source node. Although this document does not specify any extension headers, any future
extension of this document that does so is susceptible to this security concern.

If an attacker can forge an IPv6 packet with:

•

the source address of a node,

•

a Replication-SID as the DA, and

•

an IPv6 Hop Limit such that nodes that forward replicated packets on an IPv6 locator unicast
prefix, decrement the Hop Limit to zero,

then these nodes can cause a storm of ICMPv6 error packets to overwhelm the source node
under attack. The IPv6 Hop Limit Threshold check described in Section 2.2 can help mitigate such
attacks.

5.  References

5.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC4443]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

, and

Conta, A. Deering, S.
,
(ICMPv6) for the Internet Protocol Version 6 (IPv6) Specification" STD 89 RFC
4443 DOI 10.17487/RFC4443
,
rfc4443>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

M. Gupta, Ed. "Internet Control Message Protocol

, March 2006,

,

,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Voyer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9524

SR Replication Segment

February 2024

[RFC8402]

[RFC8754]

[RFC8986]

[RFC9259]

,

Filsfils, C., Ed. Previdi, S., Ed. Ginsberg, L. Decraene, B. Litkowski, S.
Shakir "Segment Routing Architecture" RFC 8402 DOI 10.17487/RFC8402
2018,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8402>

,

,

,

,

,

.

, and

R.
, July

,

Filsfils, C., Ed. Dukes, D., Ed. Previdi, S. Leddy, J. Matsushima, S.
"IPv6 Segment Routing Header (SRH)" RFC 8754 DOI 10.17487/RFC8754
2020,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8754>

, and

,
,

,

,

,

.

D. Voyer
,
, March

,

Filsfils, C., Ed. Camarillo, P., Ed. Leddy, J. Voyer, D. Matsushima, S.
"Segment Routing over IPv6 (SRv6) Network Programming" RFC 8986 DOI
10.17487/RFC8986

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8986>

, February 2021,

, and
,

Z. Li

,

,

,

,

.

,

,

,

Ali, Z. Filsfils, C. Matsushima, S. Voyer, D.
Administration, and Maintenance (OAM) in Segment Routing over IPv6 (SRv6)"
RFC 9259 DOI 10.17487/RFC9259
, June 2022,
rfc9259>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

M. Chen "Operations,

, and

,
.

,

,

,

5.2.  Informative References

[P2MP-POLICY]

Voyer, D., Ed. Filsfils, C. Parekh, R. Bidgoli, H.
,

,

,

, and

Routing Point-to-Multipoint Policy" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-
pim-sr-p2mp-policy-07
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/
draft-ietf-pim-sr-p2mp-policy-07>

, 11 October 2023,

,

.

Z. J. Zhang "Segment
,
,

[PGM-ILLUSTRATION]

,

,
J. Leddy "Illustrations for SRv6 Network
, and

Filsfils, C. Camarillo, P., Ed. Li, Z. Matsushima, S. Decraene, B. Steinberg, D.
,
Lebrun, D. Raszuk, R.
,
Programming" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-filsfils-spring-srv6-net-
pgm-illustration-04
filsfils-spring-srv6-net-pgm-illustration-04>

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-

, 30 March 2021,

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

 and

D. Senie "Network Ingress Filtering: Defeating Denial of Service

Ferguson, P.
Attacks which employ IP Source Address Spoofing" BCP 38 RFC 2827 DOI
10.17487/RFC2827

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2827>

, May 2000,

,

,

,

.

Baker, F.
RFC 3704 DOI 10.17487/RFC3704
rfc3704>

 and
,
.

,

P. Savola "Ingress Filtering for Multihomed Networks" BCP 84

,

,

, March 2004,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

 and

Rosen, E., Ed.
DOI 10.17487/RFC6513
rfc6513>

.

R. Aggarwal, Ed. "Multicast in MPLS/BGP IP VPNs" RFC 6513

,

,

,

, February 2012,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

Sajassi, A., Ed. Aggarwal, R. Bitar, N. Isaac, A. Uttaro, J. Drake, J.
Henderickx "BGP MPLS-Based Ethernet VPN" RFC 7432 DOI 10.17487/RFC7432
February 2015,

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7432>
.

, and

,
,

W.

,

,

,

,

[RFC2827]

[RFC3704]

[RFC6513]

[RFC7432]

Voyer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9524

SR Replication Segment

February 2024

[RFC7988]

[RFC8660]

[RFC9256]

[RFC9350]

[SIDS-SRv6]

,

Rosen, E., Ed. Subramanian, K.
Multicast VPN" RFC 7988 DOI 10.17487/RFC7988
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7988>

, and

,

.

,

Z. Zhang "Ingress Replication Tunnels in
, October 2016,

<https://

,

R.
Bashandy, A., Ed. Filsfils, C., Ed. Previdi, S. Decraene, B. Litkowski, S.
Shakir "Segment Routing with the MPLS Data Plane" RFC 8660 DOI 10.17487/
,
RFC8660

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8660>

, December 2019,

, and

,

,

.

,

,

,

,

Filsfils, C. Talaulikar, K., Ed. Voyer, D. Bogdanov, A.
Routing Policy Architecture" RFC 9256 DOI 10.17487/RFC9256
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9256>

, and

,
,

,
,

.

P. Mattes "Segment
,
, July 2022,

,

Psenak, P., Ed. Hegde, S. Filsfils, C. Talaulikar, K.
,
Algorithm" RFC 9350 DOI 10.17487/RFC9350
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc9350>

,

.

, and

A. Gulko "IGP Flexible

,

, February 2023,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Krishnan, S. "SRv6 Segment Identifiers in the IPv6 Addressing Architecture"
Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-6man-sids-06
, 15 February 2024,
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-6man-sids-06>

.

,

,

Appendix A.  Illustration of a Replication Segment

This section illustrates an example of a single Replication segment. Examples showing
Replication segments stitched together to form a P2MP tree (based on SR P2MP policy) are in
[P2MP-POLICY]
.

Consider the following topology:

                               R3------R6
                              /         \
                      R1----R2----R5-----R7
                              \         /
                               +--R4---+

Figure 1: Topology for Illustration of a Replication Segment

A.1.  SR-MPLS

In this example, the Node-SID of a node Rn is N-SIDn and the Adj-SID from node Rm to node Rn is
A-SIDmn. The interface between Rm and Rn is Lmn. The state representation uses "R-SID->Lmn"
to represent a packet replication with outgoing Replication-SID R-SID sent on interface Lmn.

Assume a Replication segment identified with R-ID at Replication node R1 and downstream
nodes R2, R6, and R7. The Replication-SID at node n is R-SIDn. A packet replicated from R1 to R7
has to traverse R4.

Voyer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9524

SR Replication Segment

February 2024

The Replication segments at nodes R1, R2, R6, and R7 are shown below. Note nodes R3, R4, and R5
do not have a Replication segment.

Replication segment at R1:

Replication segment
        <R-ID,R1>: Replication-SID: R-SID1 Replication state: R2:
        <R-SID2->L12> R6: <N-SID6, R-SID6> R7: <N-SID4,
        A-SID47, R-SID7>

Replication to R2 steers the packet directly to R2 on interface L12. Replication to R6, using N-SID6,
steers the packet via the shortest path to that node. Replication to R7 is steered via R4, using N-
SID4 and then adjacency SID A-SID47 to R7.

Replication segment at R2:

Replication segment
        <R-ID,R2>: Replication-SID: R-SID2 Replication state: R2:
        <Leaf>

Replication segment at R6:

Replication segment
        <R-ID,R6>: Replication-SID: R-SID6 Replication state: R6:
        <Leaf>

Replication segment at R7:

Replication segment
        <R-ID,R7>: Replication-SID: R-SID7 Replication state: R7:
        <Leaf>

When a packet is steered into the Replication segment at R1:

•

R1 performs the PUSH operation with just the <R-SID2> label for the replicated copy and
sends it to R2 on interface L12, since R1 is directly connected to R2. R2, as leaf, performs the
NEXT operation, pops the R-SID2 label, and delivers the payload.

•

R1 performs the PUSH operation with the <N-SID6, R-SID6> label stack for the replicated copy
to R6 and sends it to R2, which is the nexthop on the shortest path to R6. R2 performs the
CONTINUE operation on N-SID6 and forwards it to R3. R3 is the penultimate hop for N-SID6;
it performs penultimate hop popping, which corresponds to the NEXT operation. The packet
is then sent to R6 with <R-SID6> in the label stack. R6, as leaf, performs the NEXT operation,
pops the R-SID6 label, and delivers the payload.

•

R1 performs the PUSH operation with the <N-SID4, A-SID47, R-SID7> label stack for the
replicated copy to R7 and sends it to R2, which is the nexthop on the shortest path to R4. R2 is

Voyer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9524

SR Replication Segment

February 2024

the penultimate hop for N-SID4; it performs penultimate hop popping, which corresponds to
the NEXT operation. The packet is then sent to R4 with <A-SID47, R-SID1> in the label stack.
R4 performs the NEXT operation, pops A-SID47, and delivers the packet to R7 with <R-SID7>
in the label stack. R7, as leaf, performs the NEXT operation, pops the R-SID7 label, and
delivers the payload.

A.2.  SRv6

For SRv6, we use the SID allocation scheme, reproduced below, from "Illustrations for SRv6
Network Programming"

[PGM-ILLUSTRATION]
:

•

2001:db8::/32 is an IPv6 block allocated by a Regional Internet Registry (RIR) to the operator.

•

2001:db8:0::/48 is dedicated to the internal address space.

•

2001:db8:cccc::/48 is dedicated to the internal SRv6 SID space.

•

We assume a location expressed in 64 bits and a function expressed in 16 bits.

•

Node k has a classic IPv6 loopback address 2001:db8::k/128, which is advertised in the
Interior Gateway Protocol (IGP).

•

Node k has 2001:db8:cccc:k::/64 for its local SID space. Its SIDs will be explicitly assigned
from that block.

•

Node k advertises 2001:db8:cccc:k::/64 in its IGP.

•

Function :1:: (function 1, for short) represents the End function with the Penultimate
Segment Pop (PSP) of the SRH

 and USD support.

[RFC8986]

•

Function :Cn:: (function Cn, for short) represents the End.X function from to Node n with PSP
and USD support.

Each node k has:

•

An explicit SID instantiation 2001:db8:cccc:k:1::/128 bound to an End function with
additional support for PSP and USD.

•

An explicit SID instantiation 2001:db8:cccc:k:Cj::/128 bound to an End.X function to neighbor
J with additional support for PSP and USD.

•

An explicit SID instantiation 2001:db8:cccc:k:Fk::/128 bound to an End.Replicate function.

Assume a Replication segment identified with R-ID at Replication node R1 and downstream
nodes R2, R6, and R7. The Replication-SID at node k, bound to an End.Replicate function, is
2001:db8:cccc:k:Fk::/128. A packet replicated from R1 to R7 has to traverse R4.

The Replication segments at nodes R1, R2, R6, and R7 are shown below. Note nodes R3, R4, and R5
do not have a Replication segment. The state representation uses "R-SID->Lmn" to represent a
packet replication with outgoing Replication-SID R-SID sent on interface Lmn. "SL" represents an
optional segment list used to steer a replicated packet on a specific path to a downstream node.

Replication segment at R1:

Voyer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9524

SR Replication Segment

February 2024

Replication segment
        <R-ID,R1>: Replication-SID: 2001:db8:cccc:1:F1::0 Replication
        state: R2: <2001:db8:cccc:2:F2::0->L12> R6:
        <2001:db8:cccc:6:F6::0> R7: <2001:db8:cccc:4:C7::0>, SL:
        <2001:db8:cccc:7:F7::0>

Replication to R2 steers the packet directly to R2 on interface L12. Replication to R6, using
2001:db8:cccc:6:F6::0, steers the packet via the shortest path to that node. Replication to R7 is
steered via R4, using H.Encaps.Red with End.X SID 2001:db8:cccc:4:C7::0 at R4 to R7.

Replication segment at R2:

Replication segment
        <R-ID,R2>: Replication-SID: 2001:db8:cccc:2:F2::0 Replication
        state: R2: <Leaf>

Replication segment at R6:

Replication segment
        <R-ID,R6>: Replication-SID: 2001:db8:cccc:6:F6::0 Replication
        state: R6: <Leaf>

Replication segment at R7:

Replication segment
        <R-ID,R7>: Replication-SID: 2001:db8:cccc:7:F7::0 Replication
        state: R7: <Leaf>

When a packet, (A,B2), is steered into the Replication segment at R1:

•

R1 creates an encapsulated replicated copy (2001:db8::1, 2001:db8:cccc:2:F2::0) (A, B2), and
sends it to R2 on interface L12, since R1 is directly connected to R2. R2, as leaf, removes the
outer IPv6 header and delivers the payload.

•

R1 creates an encapsulated replicated copy (2001:db8::1, 2001:db8:cccc:6:F6::0) (A, B2) then
forwards the resulting packet on the shortest path to 2001:db8:cccc:6::/64. R2 and R3 forward
the packet using 2001:db8:cccc:6::/64. R6, as leaf, removes the outer IPv6 header and delivers
the payload.

•

R1 has to steer the packet to downstream node R7 via node R4. It can do this in one of two
ways:

◦
R1 creates an encapsulated replicated copy (2001:db8::1, 2001:db8:cccc:7:F7::0) (A, B2) and
then performs H.Encaps.Red using the SL to create the (2001:db8::1, 2001:db8:cccc:4:C7::0)
(2001:db8::1, 2001:db8:cccc:7:F7::0) (A, B2) packet. It sends this packet to R2, which is the
nexthop on the shortest path to 2001:db8:cccc:4::/64. R2 forwards the packet to R4 using
2001:db8:cccc:4::/64. R4 executes the End.X function on 2001:db8:cccc:4:C7::0, performs a

Voyer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9524

SR Replication Segment

February 2024

USD action, removes the outer IPv6 encapsulation, and sends the resulting packet
(2001:db8::1, 2001:db8:cccc:7:F7::0) (A, B2) to R7. R7, as leaf, removes the outer IPv6 header
and delivers the payload.
◦
R1 is the root of the Replication segment. Therefore, it can combine above encapsulations
to create an encapsulated replicated copy (2001:db8::1, 2001:db8:cccc:4:C7::0)
(2001:db8:cccc:7:F7::0; SL=1) (A, B2) and sends it to R2, which is the nexthop on the shortest
path to 2001:db8:cccc:4::/64. R2 forwards the packet to R4 using 2001:db8:cccc:4::/64. R4
executes the End.X function on 2001:db8:cccc:4:C7::0, performs a PSP action, removes the
SRH, and sends the resulting packet (2001:db8::1, 2001:db8:cccc:7:F7::0) (A, B2) to R7. R7, as
leaf, removes the outer IPv6 header and delivers the payload.

A.2.1.  Pinging a Replication-SID

This section illustrates the ping of a Replication-SID.

Node R1 pings the Replication-SID of node R6 directly by sending the following packet:

1.

R1 to R6: (2001:db8::1, 2001:db8:cccc:6:F6::0; NH=ICMPv6) (ICMPv6 Echo Request).

2.

Node R6 as a leaf processes the upper-layer ICMPv6 Echo Request and responds with an
ICMPv6 Echo Reply.

Node R1 pings the Replication-SID of R7 via R4 by sending the following packet with the SRH:

1.

R1 to R4: (2001:db8::1, 2001:db8:cccc:4:C7::0) (2001:db8:cccc:7:F7::0; SL=1; NH=ICMPV6)
(ICMPv6 Echo Request).

2.

R4 to R7: (2001:db8::1, 2001:db8:cccc:7:F7::0; NH=ICMPv6) (ICMPv6 Echo Request).

3.

Node R7 as a leaf processes the upper-layer ICMPv6 Echo Request and responds with an
ICMPv6 Echo Reply.

Assume node R4 is a transit replication node with Replication-SID 2001:db8:cccc:4:F4::0
replicating to R7. Node R1 pings the Replication-SID of R7 via the Replication-SID of R4 as follows:

1.

R1 to R4: (2001:db8::1, 2001:db8:cccc:4:F4::0; NH=ICMPv6) (ICMPv6 Echo Request).

2.

R4 replicates to R7 by replacing the IPv6 DA with the Replication-SID of R7 from its
Replication state.

3.

R4 to R7: (2001:db8::1, 2001:db8:cccc:7:F7::0; NH=ICMPv6) (ICMPv6 Echo Request).

4.

Node R7 as a leaf processes the upper-layer ICMPv6 Echo Request and responds with an
ICMPv6 Echo Reply.

Acknowledgements

Siva Sivabalan Mike Koldychev Vishnu Pavan Beeram
,
The authors would like to acknowledge
Alexander Vainshtein Bruno Decraene Thierry Couture Joel Halpern Ketan Talaulikar Darren
,
Dukes

,
Jingrong Xie

 for their valuable inputs.

 and

,

,

,

,

,

Voyer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9524

SR Replication Segment

February 2024

Contributors

Clayton Hassen
Bell Canada
Vancouver
Canada
Email:

 clayton.hassen@bell.ca

Kurtis Gillis
Bell Canada
Halifax
Canada
Email:

 kurtis.gillis@bell.ca

Arvind Venkateswaran
Cisco Systems, Inc.
San Jose CA
,
United States of America
Email:

 arvvenka@cisco.com

Zafar Ali
Cisco Systems, Inc.
United States of America
Email:

 zali@cisco.com

Swadesh Agrawal
Cisco Systems, Inc.
San Jose CA
,
United States of America
Email:

 swaagraw@cisco.com

Jayant Kotalwar
Nokia
Mountain View CA
United States of America
Email:

,

 jayant.kotalwar@nokia.com

Tanmoy Kundu
Nokia
Mountain View CA
United States of America
Email:

,

 tanmoy.kundu@nokia.com

Voyer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9524

SR Replication Segment

February 2024

Andrew Stone
Nokia
Ottawa
Canada
Email:

 andrew.stone@nokia.com

Tarek Saad
Cisco Systems, Inc.
Canada
Email:

 tsaad@cisco.com

Kamran Raza
Cisco Systems, Inc.
Canada
Email:

 skraza@cisco.com

Jingrong Xie
Huawei Technologies
Beijing
China
Email:

 xiejingrong@huawei.com

Authors' Addresses

editor
)

Daniel Voyer (
Bell Canada
Montreal
Canada
Email:

 daniel.voyer@bell.ca

Clarence Filsfils
Cisco Systems, Inc.
Brussels
Belgium
Email:

 cfilsfil@cisco.com

Rishabh Parekh
Cisco Systems, Inc.
San Jose CA
,
United States of America
Email:

 riparekh@cisco.com

Hooman Bidgoli
Nokia
Ottawa
Canada
Email:

 hooman.bidgoli@nokia.com

Voyer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9524

SR Replication Segment

February 2024

Zhaohui Zhang
Juniper Networks
Email:

 zzhang@juniper.net

Voyer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

