Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9491
Standards Track
November 2023
2070-1721
J. Guichard,
Futurewei Technologies

J. Tantsura,
Nvidia

 Ed.

 Ed.

RFC 9491
Integration of the Network Service Header (NSH)
and Segment Routing for Service Function Chaining
(SFC)

Abstract

This document describes the integration of the Network Service Header (NSH) and Segment
Routing (SR), as well as encapsulation details, to efficiently support Service Function Chaining
(SFC) while maintaining separation of the service and transport planes as originally intended by
the SFC architecture.

Combining these technologies allows SR to be used for steering packets between Service Function
Forwarders (SFFs) along a given Service Function Path (SFP), whereas the NSH is responsible for
maintaining the integrity of the service plane, the SFC instance context, and any associated
metadata.

This integration demonstrates that the NSH and SR can work cooperatively and provide a
network operator with the flexibility to use whichever transport technology makes sense in
specific areas of their network infrastructure while still maintaining an end-to-end service plane
using the NSH.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9491
.

Guichard & Tantsura

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9491

NSH SR SFC

November 2023

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in effect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  SFC Overview and Rationale

1.2.  Requirements Language

2.  SFC within Segment Routing Networks

3.  NSH-Based SFC with SR-MPLS or the SRv6 Transport Tunnel

4.  SR-Based SFC with the Integrated NSH Service Plane

5.  Packet Processing for SR-Based SFC

5.1.  SR-Based SFC (SR-MPLS) Packet Processing

5.2.  SR-Based SFC (SRv6) Packet Processing

6.  Encapsulation

6.1.  NSH Using SR-MPLS Transport

6.2.  NSH Using SRv6 Transport

7.  Security Considerations

8.  Backwards Compatibility

9.  Caching Considerations

10. MTU Considerations

11. IANA Considerations

11.1.  Protocol Number for the NSH

11.2.  SRv6 Endpoint Behavior for the NSH

3

3

4

4

5

9

10

11

11

11

11

12

13

14

14

14

14

14

14

Guichard & Tantsura

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9491

NSH SR SFC

November 2023

12. References

12.1.  Normative References

12.2.  Informative References

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

15

15

16

16

17

1.  Introduction

1.1.  SFC Overview and Rationale

The dynamic enforcement of a service-derived and adequate forwarding policy for packets
entering a network that supports advanced Service Functions (SFs) has become a key challenge
for network operators. For instance, cascading SFs at the Third Generation Partnership Project
(3GPP) Gi interface (N6 interface in 5G architecture) has shown limitations such as 1) redundant
classification features that must be supported by many SFs to execute their function; 2) some SFs
that receive traffic that they are not supposed to process (e.g., TCP proxies receiving UDP traffic),
which inevitably affects their dimensioning and performance; and 3) an increased design
complexity related to the properly ordered invocation of several SFs.

In order to solve those problems and to decouple the service's topology from the underlying
physical network while allowing for simplified service delivery, SFC techniques have been
introduced

[RFC7665]
.

SFC techniques are meant to rationalize the service delivery logic and reduce the resulting
complexity while optimizing service activation time cycles for operators that need more agile
service delivery procedures to better accommodate ever-demanding customer requirements. SFC
allows network operators to dynamically create service planes that can be used by specific traffic
flows. Each service plane is realized by invoking and chaining the relevant service functions in
the right sequence.
[RFC7665]
assumptions on how advanced features (e.g., load balancing, loose or strict service paths) could
be enabled within a domain. Various deployment options are made available to operators with
the SFC architecture; this approach is fundamental to accommodate various and heterogeneous
deployment contexts.

 specifies an SFC data plane architecture. The SFC architecture does not make

 provides an overview of the overall SFC problem space, and

[RFC7498]

Many approaches can be considered for encoding the information required for SFC purposes
(e.g., communicate a service chain pointer, encode a list of loose/explicit paths, or disseminate a
service chain identifier together with a set of context information). Likewise, many approaches
can also be considered for the channel to be used to carry SFC-specific information (e.g., define a
new header, reuse existing packet header fields, or define an IPv6 extension header). Among all
these approaches, the IETF created a transport-independent SFC encapsulation scheme: NSH
[RFC8300]

. This design is pragmatic, as it does not require replicating the same specification

Guichard & Tantsura

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9491

NSH SR SFC

November 2023

effort as a function of underlying transport encapsulation. Moreover, this design approach
encourages consistent SFC-based service delivery in networks enabling distinct transport
protocols in various network segments or even between SFFs vs. SF-SFF hops.

1.2.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  SFC within Segment Routing Networks

 specifies how to encapsulate the NSH directly within a link-layer header. In this

[RFC8300]
document, IANA has assigned IP protocol number 145 for the NSH so that it can also be
encapsulated directly within an IP header. The procedures that follow make use of this property.

[RFC8402]

As described in
, SR leverages the source-routing technique. Concretely, a node steers a
packet through an SR policy instantiated as an ordered list of instructions called segments. While
initially designed for policy-based source routing, SR also finds its application in supporting SFC
[SERVICE-PROGRAMMING]
.

Segment Routing over
SR-MPLS [RFC8660]
, can encode an SF as a segment so that a service function chain can be

The two SR data plane encapsulations, namely
IPv6 (SRv6) [RFC8754]
specified as a segment list. Nevertheless, and as discussed in
subset of the issues that motivated the design of the SFC architecture. Further considerations,
such as simplifying classification at intermediate SFs and allowing for coordinated behaviors
among SFs by means of supplying context information (a.k.a. metadata), should be considered
when designing an SFC data plane solution.

, traffic steering is only a

[RFC7498]

 and

While each scheme (i.e., NSH-based SFC and SR-based SFC) can work independently, this
document describes how the two can be used together in concert and to complement each other
through two representative application scenarios. Both application scenarios may be supported
using either SR-MPLS or SRv6:

NSH-based SFC with the SR-based transport plane:

In this scenario, SR-MPLS or SRv6 provides the transport encapsulation between SFFs, while
the NSH is used to convey and trigger SFC policies.

SR-based SFC with the integrated NSH service plane:

In this scenario, each service hop of the service function chain is represented as a segment of
the SR segment list. SR is thus responsible for steering traffic through the necessary SFFs as
part of the segment routing path, while the NSH is responsible for maintaining the service
plane and holding the SFC instance context (including associated metadata).

Of course, it is possible to combine both of these two scenarios to support specific deployment
requirements and use cases.

Guichard & Tantsura

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9491

NSH SR SFC

November 2023

MUST

 use one NSH Service Path Identifier (SPI) for each SR policy so that different

A classifier
traffic flows can use the same NSH Service Function Path (SFP) and different SR policies can
coexist on the same SFP without conflict during SFF processing.

3.  NSH-Based SFC with SR-MPLS or the SRv6 Transport Tunnel

Because of the transport-independent nature of NSH-based service function chains, it is expected
that the NSH has broad applicability across different network domains (e.g., access, core). By way
of illustration, the various SFs involved in a service function chain may be available in a single
data center or spread throughout multiple locations (e.g., data centers, different Points of
Presence (POPs)), depending upon the network operator preference and/or availability of service
resources. Regardless of where the SFs are deployed, it is necessary to provide traffic steering
through a set of SFFs, and when NSH and SR are integrated, this is provided by SR-MPLS or SRv6.

The following three figures provide an example of an SFC-established flow F that has SF
instances located in different data centers, DC1 and DC2. For the purpose of illustration, let the
SFC's NSH SPI be 100 and the initial Service Index (SI) be 255.

Referring to Figure 1, packets of flow F in DC1 are classified into an NSH-based service function
chain, encapsulated after classification as <Inner Pkt><NSH: SPI 100, SI 255><Outer-transport>,
and forwarded to SFF1 (which is the first SFF hop for this service function chain).

After removing the outer transport encapsulation, SFF1 uses the SPI and SI carried within the
NSH encapsulation to determine that it should forward the packet to SF1. SF1 applies its service,
decrements the SI by 1, and returns the packet to SFF1. Therefore, SFF1 has <SPI 100, SI 254>
when the packet comes back from SF1. SFF1 does a lookup on <SPI 100, SI 254>, which results in
<next-hop: DC1-GW1> and forwards the packet to DC1-GW1.

Guichard & Tantsura

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9491

NSH SR SFC

November 2023

+--------------------------- DC1 ----------------------------+
|                          +-----+                           |
|                          | SF1 |                           |
|                          +--+--+                           |
|                             |                              |
|                             |                              |
|        +------------+       |    +------------+            |
|        | N(100,255) |       |    | N(100,254) |            |
|        +------------+       |    +------------+            |
|        | F:Inner Pkt|       |    | F:Inner Pkt|            |
|        +------------+  ^    |  | +------------+            |
|                    (2) |    |  | (3)                       |
|                        |    |  v                           |
|                  (1)        |         (4)                  |
|+------------+   ---->    +--+---+    ---->     +---------+ |
||            |    NSH     |      |     NSH      |         | |
|| Classifier +------------+ SFF1 +--------------+ DC1-GW1 + |
||            |            |      |              |         | |
|+------------+            +------+              +---------+ |
|                                                            |
|             +------------+       +------------+            |
|             | N(100,255) |       | N(100,254) |            |
|             +------------+       +------------+            |
|             | F:Inner Pkt|       | F:Inner Pkt|            |
|             +------------+       +------------+            |
|                                                            |
+------------------------------------------------------------+

Figure 1: SR for Inter-DC SFC - Part 1

Referring now to Figure 2, DC1-GW1 performs a lookup using the information conveyed in the
NSH, which results in <next-hop: DC2-GW1, encapsulation: SR>. The SR encapsulation, which
may be SR-MPLS or SRv6, has the SR segment list to forward the packet across the inter-DC
network to DC2.

Guichard & Tantsura

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9491

NSH SR SFC

November 2023

                  +----------- Inter DC ----------------+
           (4)    |                (5)                  |
+------+  ---->   | +---------+   ---->     +---------+ |
|      |   NSH    | |         |     SR      |         | |
+ SFF1 +----------|-+ DC1-GW1 +-------------+ DC2-GW1 + |
|      |          | |         |             |         | |
+------+          | +---------+             +---------+ |
                  |                                     |
                  |          +------------+             |
                  |          | S(DC2-GW1) |             |
                  |          +------------+             |
                  |          | N(100,254) |             |
                  |          +------------+             |
                  |          | F:Inner Pkt|             |
                  |          +------------+             |
                  +-------------------------------------+

Figure 2: SR for Inter-DC SFC - Part 2

When the packet arrives at DC2, as shown in Figure 3, the SR encapsulation is removed, and DC2-
GW1 performs a lookup on the NSH, which results in next hop: SFF2. When SFF2 receives the
packet, it performs a lookup on <NSH: SPI 100, SI 254> and determines to forward the packet to
SF2. SF2 applies its service, decrements the SI by 1, and returns the packet to SFF2. Therefore,
SFF2 has <NSH: SPI 100, SI 253> when the packet comes back from SF2. SFF2 does a lookup on
<NSH: SPI 100, SI 253>, which results in the end of the service function chain.

Guichard & Tantsura

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9491

NSH SR SFC

November 2023

                   +------------------------ DC2 ----------------------+
                   |                         +-----+                   |
                   |                         | SF2 |                   |
                   |                         +--+--+                   |
                   |                            |                      |
                   |                            |                      |
                   |        +------------+      |    +------------+    |
                   |        | N(100,254) |      |    | N(100,253) |    |
                   |        +------------+      |    +------------+    |
                   |        | F:Inner Pkt|      |    | F:Inner Pkt|    |
                   |        +------------+  ^   |  | +------------+    |
                   |                    (7) |   |  | (8)               |
                   |                        |   |  v                   |
             (5)   |                 (6)        |     (9)              |
+---------+  --->  | +----------+   ---->    +--+---+ ---->            |
|         |   SR   | |          |    NSH     |      |  IP              |
+ DC1-GW1 +--------|-+ DC2-GW1  +------------+ SFF2 |                  |
|         |        | |          |            |      |                  |
+---------+        | +----------+            +------+                  |
                   |                                                   |
                   |           +------------+      +------------+      |
                   |           | N(100,254) |      | F:Inner Pkt|      |
                   |           +------------+      +------------+      |
                   |           | F:Inner Pkt|                          |
                   |           +------------+                          |
                   +---------------------------------------------------+

Figure 3: SR for Inter-DC SFC - Part 3

The benefits of this scheme are listed hereafter:

•

The network operator is able to take advantage of the transport-independent nature of the
NSH encapsulation while the service is provisioned end-to-end.

•

The network operator is able to take advantage of the traffic-steering (traffic-engineering)
capability of SR where appropriate.

•

Clear responsibility division and scope between the NSH and SR.

Note that this scenario is applicable to any case where multiple segments of a service function
chain are distributed across multiple domains or where traffic-engineered paths are necessary
between SFFs (strict forwarding paths, for example). Further, note that the above example can
also be implemented using end-to-end segment routing between SFF1 and SFF2. (As such, DC-
GW1 and DC-GW2 are forwarding the packets based on segment routing instructions and are not
looking at the NSH header for forwarding.)

Guichard & Tantsura

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9491

NSH SR SFC

November 2023

4.  SR-Based SFC with the Integrated NSH Service Plane

In this scenario, we assume that the SFs are NSH-aware; therefore, it should not be necessary to
implement an SFC proxy to achieve SFC. The operation relies upon SR-MPLS or SRv6 to perform
SFF-SFF transport and the NSH to provide the service plane between SFs, thereby maintaining
SFC context (e.g., the service plane path referenced by the SPI) and any associated metadata.

When a service function chain is established, a packet associated with that chain will first carry
an NSH that will be used to maintain the end-to-end service plane through use of the SFC context.
The SFC context is used by an SFF to determine the SR segment list for forwarding the packet to
the next-hop SFFs. The packet is then encapsulated using the SR header and forwarded in the SR
domain following normal SR operations.

. In the case of SRv6, the behavior described within this document is assigned the name

When a packet has to be forwarded to an SF attached to an SFF, the SFF performs a lookup on the
segment identifier (SID) associated with the SF. In the case of SR-MPLS, this will be a Prefix-SID
[RFC8402]
END.NSH, and Section 11.2 describes the allocation of the code point by IANA. The result of this
lookup allows the SFF to retrieve the next-hop context between the SFF and SF (e.g., the
destination Media Access Control (MAC) address in case Ethernet encapsulation is used between
the SFF and SF). In addition, the SFF strips the SR information from the packet, updates the SR
information, and saves it to a cache indexed by the NSH Service Path Identifier (SPI) and the
Service Index (SI) decremented by 1. This saved SR information is used to encapsulate and
forward the packet(s) coming back from the SF.

The behavior of remembering the SR segment list occurs at the end of the regularly defined logic.
The behavior of reattaching the segment list occurs before the SR process of forwarding the
packet to the next entry in the segment list. Both behaviors are further detailed in Section 5.

When the SF receives the packet, it processes it as usual. When the SF is co-resident with a
classifier, the already-processed packet may be reclassified. The SF sends the packet back to the
SFF. Once the SFF receives this packet, it extracts the SR information using the NSH SPI and SI as
the index into the cache. The SFF then pushes the retrieved SR header on top of the NSH header
and forwards the packet to the next segment in the segment list. The lookup in the SFF cache
might fail if reclassification at the SF changed the NSH SPI and/or SI to values that do not exist in
the SFF cache. In such a case, the SFF must generate an error and drop the packet.

Figure 4 illustrates an example of this scenario.

Guichard & Tantsura

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9491

NSH SR SFC

November 2023

                        +-----+                       +-----+
                        | SF1 |                       | SF2 |
                        +--+--+                       +--+--+
                           |                             |
                           |                             |
             +-----------+ | +-----------+ +-----------+ | +-----------+
             |N(100,255) | | |N(100,254) | |N(100,254) | | |N(100,253) |
             +-----------+ | +-----------+ +-----------+ | +-----------+
             |F:Inner Pkt| | |F:Inner Pkt| |F:Inner Pkt| | |F:Inner Pkt|
             +-----------+ | +-----------+ +-----------+ | +-----------+
                     (2) ^ | (3) |                 (5) ^ | (6) |
                         | |     |                     | |     |
                         | |     |                     | |     |
                 (1)     | |     v      (4)            | |     v (7)
+------------+   --->    +-+----+      ---->          +---+--+   -->
|            | NSHoverSR |      |    NSHoverSR        |      |    IP
| Classifier +-----------+ SFF1 +---------------------+ SFF2 |
|            |           |      |                     |      |
+------------+           +------+                     +------+

             +------------+        +------------+        +------------+
             |   S(SF1)   |        |   S(SF2)   |        | F:Inner Pkt|
             +------------+        +------------+        +------------+
             |   S(SFF2)  |        | N(100,254) |
             +------------+        +------------+
             |   S(SF2)   |        | F:Inner Pkt|
             +------------+        +------------+
             | N(100,255) |
             +------------+
             | F:Inner Pkt|
             +------------+

Figure 4: NSH over SR for SFC

The benefits of this scheme include the following:

•

It is economically sound for SF vendors to only support one unified SFC solution. The SF is
unaware of the SR.

•

It simplifies the SFF (i.e., the SR router) by nullifying the needs for reclassification and SR
proxy.

•

SR is also used for forwarding purposes, including between SFFs.

•

It takes advantage of SR to eliminate the NSH forwarding state in SFFs. This applies each
time strict or loose SFPs are in use.

•

It requires no interworking, as would be the case if SR-MPLS-based SFC and NSH-based SFC
were deployed as independent mechanisms in different parts of the network.

5.  Packet Processing for SR-Based SFC

This section describes the End.NSH behavior (SRv6), Prefix-SID behavior (SR-MPLS), and NSH
processing logic.

Guichard & Tantsura

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9491

NSH SR SFC

November 2023

5.1.  SR-Based SFC (SR-MPLS) Packet Processing

When an SFF receives a packet destined to S and S is a local Prefix-SID associated with an SF, the
SFF strips the SR segment list (label stack) from the packet, updates the SR information, and saves
it to a cache indexed by the NSH Service Path Identifier (SPI) and the Service Index (SI)
decremented by 1. This saved SR information is used to re-encapsulate and forward the packet(s)
coming back from the SF.

5.2.  SR-Based SFC (SRv6) Packet Processing

This section describes the End.NSH behavior and NSH processing logic for SRv6. The pseudocode
is shown below.

When N receives a packet destined to S and S is a local End.NSH SID, the processing is the same
as that specified by

[RFC8754], Section 4.3.1.1

, up through line S15.

After S15, if S is a local End.NSH SID, then:

S15.1.         Remove and store IPv6 and SRH headers in local cache
               indexed by <NSH: service-path-id, service-index -1>
S15.2.         Submit the packet to the NSH FIB lookup and transmit
               to the destination associated with <NSH:
               service-path-id, service-index>

Note: The End.NSH behavior interrupts the normal SRH packet processing, as
described in

, which does not continue to S16 at this time.

[RFC8754], Section 4.3.1.1

When a packet is returned to the SFF from the SF, reattach the cached IPv6 and SRH headers
based on the <NSH: service-path-id, service-index> from the NSH header. Then, resume
processing from

[RFC8754], Section 4.3.1.1

 with line S16.

6.  Encapsulation

6.1.  NSH Using SR-MPLS Transport

SR-MPLS instantiates segment identifiers (SIDs) as MPLS labels; therefore, the segment routing
header is a stack of MPLS labels.

When carrying an NSH within an SR-MPLS transport, the full encapsulation headers are as
illustrated in Figure 5.

Guichard & Tantsura

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9491

NSH SR SFC

November 2023

                       +------------------+
                       ~   SR-MPLS Labels ~
                       +------------------+
                       |   NSH Base Hdr   |
                       +------------------+
                       | Service Path Hdr |
                       +------------------+
                       ~     Metadata     ~
                       +------------------+

Figure 5: NSH Using SR-MPLS Transport

[RFC8402]

As described in
, "[t]he IGP signaling extension for IGP-Prefix segment includes a flag to
indicate whether directly connected neighbors of the node on which the prefix is attached should
perform the NEXT operation or the CONTINUE operation when processing the SID." When an
NSH is carried beneath SR-MPLS, it is necessary to terminate the NSH-based SFC at the tail-end
node of the SR-MPLS label stack. This can be achieved using either the NEXT or CONTINUE
operation.

If the NEXT operation is to be used, then at the end of the SR-MPLS path, it is necessary to
provide an indication to the tail end that the NSH follows the SR-MPLS label stack as described by
[RFC8596]
.

If the CONTINUE operation is to be used, this is the equivalent of MPLS Ultimate Hop Popping
(UHP); therefore, it is necessary to ensure that the penultimate hop node does not pop the top
label of the SR-MPLS label stack and thereby expose the NSH to the wrong SFF. This is realized by
setting the No Penultimate Hop Popping (No-PHP) flag in Prefix-SID Sub-TLV
[RFC8665]
SFC application for this purpose.

 that a specific Prefix-SID be allocated at each node for use by the

RECOMMENDED

[RFC8667]

. It is

6.2.  NSH Using SRv6 Transport

When carrying a NSH within an SRv6 transport, the full encapsulation is as illustrated in Figure
6.

Guichard & Tantsura

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9491

NSH SR SFC

November 2023

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| Next Header   |  Hdr Ext Len  | Routing Type  | Segments Left |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|  Last Entry   |     Flags     |              Tag              | S
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ e
|                                                               | g
|            Segment List[0] (128-bit IPv6 address)             | m
|                                                               | e
|                                                               | n
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ t
|                                                               |
|                                                               | R
~                              ...                              ~ o
|                                                               | u
|                                                               | t
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ i
|                                                               | n
|            Segment List[n] (128-bit IPv6 address)             | g
|                                                               |
|                                                               | S
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ R
//                                                             // H
//         Optional Type Length Value objects (variable)       //
//                                                             //
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|Ver|O|U|    TTL    |   Length  |U|U|U|U|MD Type| Next Protocol |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ N
|          Service Path Identifier              | Service Index | S
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ H
|                                                               |
~              Variable-Length Context Headers  (opt.)          ~
|                                                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 6: NSH Using SRv6 Transport

Encapsulation of the NSH following SRv6 is indicated by the IP protocol number for the NSH in
the Next Header of the SRH.

7.  Security Considerations

Generic SFC-related security considerations are discussed in

[RFC7665]
.

NSH-specific security considerations are discussed in

[RFC8300]
.

Generic security considerations related to segment routing are discussed in
Section 5 of [RFC8663]
[RFC8754]
.

 and

Section 7 of

Guichard & Tantsura

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9491

NSH SR SFC

November 2023

8.  Backwards Compatibility

For SRv6/IPv6, if a processing node does not recognize the NSH, it should follow the procedures
Section 4 of [RFC8200]
described in
NSH, it should follow the procedures laid out in

. For SR-MPLS, if a processing node does not recognize the

Section 3.18 of [RFC3031]
.

9.  Caching Considerations

The cache mechanism must remove cached entries at an appropriate time determined by the
implementation. Further, an implementation
MAY
value. In the case where a packet arriving from an SF does not have a matching cached entry, the
SFF

 allow network operators to set the said time

 log this event and

 drop the packet.

SHOULD

MUST

10.  MTU Considerations

Section 5 of [RFC8300]

Aligned with
network operators to increase the underlying MTU so that SR/NSH traffic is forwarded within an
SR domain without fragmentation.

Section 5.3 of [RFC8754]

RECOMMENDED

, it is

 and

 for

11.  IANA Considerations

11.1.  Protocol Number for the NSH

IANA has assigned protocol number 145 for the NSH
Numbers" registry

<https://www.iana.org/assignments/protocol-numbers/>
.

[RFC8300]

 in the "Assigned Internet Protocol

Decimal

Keyword

Protocol

IPv6 Extension Header

Reference

145

NSH

Network Service Header N

RFC 9491

Table 1: Assigned Internet Protocol Numbers Registry

11.2.  SRv6 Endpoint Behavior for the NSH

IANA has allocated the following value in the "SRv6 Endpoint Behaviors" subregistry under the
"Segment Routing" registry:

Value Hex

Endpoint Behavior

Reference

Change Controller

84

0x0054

End.NSH - NSH Segment

RFC 9491

IETF

Table 2: SRv6 Endpoint Behaviors Subregistry

Guichard & Tantsura

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9491

NSH SR SFC

November 2023

12.  References

12.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC3031]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8200]

[RFC8300]

[RFC8402]

[RFC8660]

[RFC8663]

[RFC8665]

[RFC8667]

[RFC8754]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Rosen, E. Viswanathan, A.
Architecture" RFC 3031 DOI 10.17487/RFC3031
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc3031>
.

, and

R. Callon "Multiprotocol Label Switching

,

, January 2001,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Deering, S.
86 RFC 8200 DOI 10.17487/RFC8200
rfc8200>

 and
,

,

,

.

R. Hinden "Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6) Specification" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, July 2017,

,

Quinn, P., Ed. Elzur, U., Ed.
,
(NSH)" RFC 8300 DOI 10.17487/RFC8300
editor.org/info/rfc8300>

, and

,

,

.

,
, January 2018,

C. Pignataro, Ed. "Network Service Header

<https://www.rfc-

,

Filsfils, C., Ed. Previdi, S., Ed. Ginsberg, L. Decraene, B. Litkowski, S.
Shakir "Segment Routing Architecture" RFC 8402 DOI 10.17487/RFC8402
2018,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8402>

,

,

,

,

,

.

, and

R.
, July

,

Bashandy, A., Ed. Filsfils, C., Ed. Previdi, S. Decraene, B. Litkowski, S.
R.
Shakir "Segment Routing with the MPLS Data Plane" RFC 8660 DOI 10.17487/
,
RFC8660

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8660>

, December 2019,

, and

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

Xu, X. Bryant, S. Farrel, A. Hassan, S. Henderickx, W.
,
,
Routing over IP" RFC 8663 DOI 10.17487/RFC8663
,
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8663>

,

.

, and

Z. Li "MPLS Segment

,

, December 2019,

<https://

,

Psenak, P., Ed. Previdi, S., Ed. Filsfils, C. Gredler, H. Shakir, R. Henderickx, W.
,
,
and
10.17487/RFC8665

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8665>

J. Tantsura "OSPF Extensions for Segment Routing" RFC 8665 DOI

, December 2019,

,

,

,

,

.

,

,

Previdi, S., Ed. Ginsberg, L., Ed. Filsfils, C. Bashandy, A. Gredler, H.
B.
Decraene "IS-IS Extensions for Segment Routing" RFC 8667 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8667

,
, December 2019,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8667>

, and

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

Filsfils, C., Ed. Dukes, D., Ed. Previdi, S. Leddy, J. Matsushima, S.
"IPv6 Segment Routing Header (SRH)" RFC 8754 DOI 10.17487/RFC8754
2020,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8754>

, and

,
,

,

,

,

.

D. Voyer
,
, March

Guichard & Tantsura

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9491

NSH SR SFC

November 2023

12.2.  Informative References

[RFC7498]

[RFC7665]

[RFC8596]

 and

Quinn, P., Ed.
Chaining" RFC 7498 DOI 10.17487/RFC7498
editor.org/info/rfc7498>

T. Nadeau, Ed. "Problem Statement for Service Function
<https://www.rfc-

, April 2015,

,

,

.

,

 and

Halpern, J., Ed.
Architecture" RFC 7665 DOI 10.17487/RFC7665
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc7665>
.

C. Pignataro, Ed. "Service Function Chaining (SFC)

,

, October 2015,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

Malis, A. Bryant, S. Halpern, J.
Encapsulation for the Service Function Chaining (SFC) Network Service Header
(NSH)" RFC 8596 DOI 10.17487/RFC8596
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/
,
info/rfc8596>

W. Henderickx "MPLS Transport

, June 2019,

, and

,

,

.

[SERVICE-PROGRAMMING]
,

,

,

Clad, F., Ed. Xu, X., Ed. Filsfils, C. Bernier, D. Li, C. Decraene, B. Ma, S.
Yadlapalli, C. Henderickx, W.
Segment Routing" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-spring-sr-service-
programming-08
ietf-spring-sr-service-programming-08>

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-

,
, 21 August 2023,

S. Salsano "Service Programming with

,
, and

,
,

,

,

,

,

.

Contributors

The following coauthors provided valuable inputs and text contributions to this document.

Mohamed Boucadair
Orange
Email:

 mohamed.boucadair@orange.com

Joel Halpern
Ericsson
Email:

 joel.halpern@ericsson.com

Syed Hassan
Cisco System, inc.
Email:

 shassan@cisco.com

Wim Henderickx
Nokia
Email:

 wim.henderickx@nokia.com

Haoyu Song
Futurewei Technologies
Email:

 haoyu.song@futurewei.com

Guichard & Tantsura

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9491

NSH SR SFC

November 2023

Authors' Addresses

editor
)

James N Guichard (
Futurewei Technologies
2330 Central Expressway
Santa Clara CA
,
United States of America
Email:

 james.n.guichard@futurewei.com

editor
)

Jeff Tantsura (
Nvidia
United States of America
Email:

 jefftant.ietf@gmail.com

Guichard & Tantsura

Standards Track

Page 17

