Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9056
Standards Track
October 2021
2070-1721
B. Varga,
Ericsson

L. Berger
LabN Consulting, L.L.C.

 Ed.

D. Fedyk
LabN Consulting, L.L.C.

S. Bryant
Futurewei Technologies

J. Korhonen

RFC 9056
Deterministic Networking (DetNet) Data Plane: IP
over MPLS

Abstract

This document speciﬁes the Deterministic Networking data plane when encapsulating IP over an
MPLS packet-switched network.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

.
https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9056

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

Varga, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9056

DetNet Data Plane: IP over MPLS

October 2021

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

2.1.  Terms Used in This Document

2.2.  Abbreviations

2.3.  Requirements Language

3.  DetNet IP Data Plane Overview

4.  DetNet IP over DetNet MPLS

4.1.  DetNet IP over DetNet MPLS Data Plane Scenarios

4.2.  DetNet IP over DetNet MPLS Encapsulation

5.  DetNet IP over DetNet MPLS Procedures

5.1.  DetNet IP over DetNet MPLS Flow Identiﬁcation and Aggregation Procedures

5.2.  DetNet IP over DetNet MPLS Traﬃc Treatment Procedures

6.  Management and Control Information Summary

7.  Security Considerations

8.  IANA Considerations

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

Deterministic Networking (DetNet) is a service that can be oﬀered by a network to DetNet ﬂows.
DetNet provides a capability for the delivery of data ﬂows with extremely low packet loss rates
and bounded end-to-end delivery latency. General background and concepts of DetNet can be
found in the DetNet architecture

[RFC8655]

.

Varga, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9056

DetNet Data Plane: IP over MPLS

October 2021

This document speciﬁes use of the IP DetNet encapsulation over an MPLS network. It maps the IP
data plane encapsulation described in
[RFC8964]

 to the DetNet MPLS data plane deﬁned in

[RFC8939]

.

2.  Terminology

2.1.  Terms Used in This Document

This document uses the terminology and concepts established in the DetNet architecture
[RFC8655]
terminology.

. The reader is assumed to be familiar with these documents and their

[RFC8938]

 and in

2.2.  Abbreviations

This document uses the abbreviations deﬁned in the DetNet architecture
[RFC8938]

. This document uses the following abbreviations:

[RFC8655]

 and in

CE

d-CW

Customer Edge (equipment)

DetNet Control Word

DetNet

Deterministic Networking

DF

DN

L2

LSP

DetNet Flow

DetNet

Layer 2

Label-Switched Path

MPLS

Multiprotocol Label Switching

PEF

PRF

Packet Elimination Function

Packet Replication Function

PREOF

Packet Replication, Elimination, and Ordering Functions

POF

PW

Packet Ordering Function

Pseudowire

S-Label

DetNet "service" Label

S-PE

T-PE

TE

TSN

Switching Provider Edge

Terminating Provider Edge

Traﬃc Engineering

Time-Sensitive Networking; TSN is a Task Group of the IEEE 802.1 Working Group

Varga, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9056

DetNet Data Plane: IP over MPLS

October 2021

2.3.  Requirements Language

The key words "
", "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
", "
"
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

3.  DetNet IP Data Plane Overview

Figure 1 illustrates an IP DetNet with an MPLS-based DetNet network as a sub-network between
the relay nodes. An IP ﬂow is mapped to one or more PWs and MPLS (TE) LSPs. The end systems
still originate IP-encapsulated traﬃc, identiﬁed as DetNet ﬂows. The relay nodes follow
procedures deﬁned in Section 4 to map each DetNet ﬂow to MPLS LSPs. While not shown, relay
nodes can provide service sub-layer functions such as PREOF using DetNet over MPLS, and this is
indicated by the solid line for the MPLS-facing portion of the Service component. Note that the
Transit node is MPLS (TE) LSP aware and performs switching based on MPLS labels; it need not
have any speciﬁc knowledge of the DetNet service or the corresponding DetNet ﬂow
identiﬁcation. See Section 4 for details on the mapping of IP ﬂows to MPLS, and
general support of DetNet services using MPLS.

[RFC8964]

 for

 DetNet IP       Relay         Transit         Relay      DetNet IP
 End System      Node           Node           Node       End System

+----------+                                             +----------+
|   Appl.  |<------------- End to End Service ---------->|  Appl.   |
+----------+   .....-----+                 +-----.....   +----------+
| Service  |<--: Service |--DetNet flow ---| Service :-->| Service  |
|          |   :         |<-DN MPLS flow ->|         :   |          |
+----------+   +---------+  +----------+   +---------+   +----------+
|Forwarding|   |Fwd| |Fwd|  |Forwarding|   |Fwd| |Fwd|   |Forwarding|
+-------.--+   +-.-+ +-.-+  +----.---.-+   +-.-+ +-.-+   +---.------+
        :  Link  :    /  ,-----.  \   : Link :    /  ,-----.  \
        +........+    +-[  Sub  ]-+   +......+    +-[  Sub  ]-+
                        [Network]                   [Network]
                         `-----'                     `-----'

                     |<---- DetNet MPLS ---->|
         |<--------------------- DetNet IP ------------------>|

Figure 1: Architecture: DetNet IP over DetNet MPLS Network

4.  DetNet IP over DetNet MPLS

This section deﬁnes how IP-encapsulated ﬂows are carried over a DetNet MPLS data plane as
deﬁned in
section is applicable to any node that supports IP over DetNet MPLS, and this section refers to
both cases as DetNet IP over DetNet MPLS.

. Since both non-DetNet and DetNet IP packets are identical on the wire, this

[RFC8964]

Varga, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9056

DetNet Data Plane: IP over MPLS

October 2021

4.1.  DetNet IP over DetNet MPLS Data Plane Scenarios

An example use of DetNet IP over DetNet MPLS is presented here.

Figure 1 illustrates IP DetNet-enabled End Systems (hosts) connected to DetNet-enabled IP
networks (DN IP), operating over a DetNet-aware MPLS network. In this ﬁgure, we have a case
where the relay nodes act as T-PEs and sit at the boundary of the MPLS domain since the non-
MPLS domain is DetNet aware. This case is very similar to the DetNet MPLS Network (Figure 2 in
[RFC8964]
, the T-PEs are located at the end system and MPLS
spans the whole DetNet service. The primary diﬀerence in this document is that the relay nodes
are at the edges of the MPLS domain and therefore function as T-PEs, and that MPLS service sub-
layer functions are not provided over the DetNet IP network. The transit node functions shown
above are identical to those described in

). However, in Figure 2 of

[RFC8964]

[RFC8964]

.

Figure 2 illustrates how relay nodes can provide service protection over an MPLS domain. In this
case, CE1 and CE2 are IP DetNet end systems that are interconnected via an MPLS domain such as
that described in
. Note that R1 and R3 sit at the edges of an MPLS domain and therefore
are similar to T-PEs, while R2 sits in the middle of the domain and is therefore similar to an S-PE.

[RFC8964]

      DetNet                                         DetNet
IP    Service         Transit          Transit       Service  IP
DetNet               |<-Tnl->|        |<-Tnl->|               DetNet
End     |            V   1   V        V   2   V            |  End
System  |   +--------+       +--------+       +--------+   |  System
+---+   |   |   R1   |=======|   R2   |=======|   R3   |   |   +---+
|   |-------|._X_....|..DF1..|.__ ___.|..DF3..|...._X_.|-------|   |
|CE1|   |   |    \   |       |   X    |       |   /    |   |   |CE2|
|   |   |   |     \_.|..DF2..|._/ \__.|..DF4..|._/     |   |   |   |
+---+       |        |=======|        |=======|        |       +---+
    ^       +--------+       +--------+       +--------+       ^
    |        Relay Node       Relay Node       Relay Node      |
    |          (T-PE)           (S-PE)          (T-PE)         |
    |                                                          |
    |<-DN IP-> <-------- DetNet MPLS ---------------> <-DN IP->|
    |                                                          |
    |<-------------- End to End DetNet Service --------------->|

   -------------------------- Data Flow ------------------------->

    X   = Service protection (PRF, PREOF, PEF/POF)
    DFx = DetNet member flow x over a TE LSP

Figure 2: Service Protection over DetNet MPLS Network for DetNet IP

Figure 1 illustrates DetNet-enabled end systems connected to DetNet-enabled (DN) MPLS
networks. A similar situation occurs when end systems are not DetNet aware. In this case, edge
nodes sit at the boundary of the MPLS domain since it is also a DetNet domain boundary. The
edge nodes provide DetNet service proxies for the end applications by initiating and terminating

Varga, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9056

DetNet Data Plane: IP over MPLS

October 2021

DetNet service for the application's IP ﬂows. While the node types diﬀer, there is essentially no
diﬀerence in data plane processing between relays and edges. There are likely to be diﬀerences in
Controller Plane operation, particularly when distributed control plane protocols are used.

It is still possible to provide DetNet service protection for non-DetNet-aware end systems. This
case is basically the same as Figure 2, with the exception that CE1 and CE2 are non-DetNet-aware
end systems and R1 and R3 become edge nodes.

4.2.  DetNet IP over DetNet MPLS Encapsulation

The basic encapsulation approach is to treat a DetNet IP ﬂow as an App-ﬂow from the DetNet
MPLS perspective. The corresponding example DetNet Sub-network format is shown in Figure 3.

           /->     +------+  +------+  +------+            ^ ^
           |       |  X   |  |  X   |  |  X   |<- App-flow : :
           |       +------+  +------+  +------+            : :
App-flow <-+       |NProto|  |NProto|  |NProto|            : :(1)
 for MPLS  |       +------+  +------+  +------+            : :
           |       |  IP  |  |  IP  |  |  IP  |            : v
           \-> +---+======+--+======+--+======+-----+      :
DetNet-MPLS        | d-CW |  | d-CW |  | d-CW |            :
                   +------+  +------+  +------+            :(2)
                   |Labels|  |Labels|  |Labels|            v
               +---+======+--+======+--+======+-----+
Link/Sub-network   |  L2  |  | TSN  |  | UDP  |
                   +------+  +------+  +------+
                                       |  IP  |
                                       +------+
                                       |  L2  |
                                       +------+
    (1) DetNet IP Flow (or simply IP flow)
    (2) DetNet MPLS Flow

Figure 3: Example DetNet IP over MPLS Sub-network Formats

In Figure 3, "App-ﬂow" indicates the payload carried by the DetNet IP data plane. "IP" and "NProto"
indicate the ﬁelds described in Sections 5.1.1 (IP Header Information) and 5.1.2 (Other Protocol
Header Information) of
DetNet IP ﬂow is the payload from the perspective of the DetNet MPLS data plane deﬁned in
[RFC8964]

, respectively. "App-ﬂow for MPLS" indicates that an individual

[RFC8939]

.

Section 5.1 of [RFC8964]

, the DetNet MPLS data plane uses a single S-Label to support a single
 states that a single

Per
App-ﬂow. DetNet IP Flow Identiﬁcation Procedures in
DetNet ﬂow is identiﬁed based on IP- and next-level protocol header information.
[RFC8939]
the use of preﬁxes, wildcards, lists, and port ranges. Collectively, this results in the fairly
straightforward procedures deﬁned in the next section.

 (DetNet Flow Aggregation) deﬁnes the ways in which aggregation is supported through

Section 5.1 of [RFC8939]

Section 4.4 of

Varga, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9056

DetNet Data Plane: IP over MPLS

October 2021

As shown in Figure 2, DetNet relay nodes are responsible for the mapping of a DetNet ﬂow, at the
service sub-layer, from the IP to MPLS DetNet data planes and back again. Their related DetNet IP
over DetNet MPLS data plane operation is comprised of two sets of procedures: the mapping of
ﬂow identiﬁers and ensuring proper traﬃc treatment.

Mapping of IP to DetNet MPLS is similar for DetNet IP ﬂows and IP ﬂows. The six-tuple of IP is
mapped to the S-Label in both cases. The various ﬁelds may be mapped or ignored when going
from IP to MPLS.

5.  DetNet IP over DetNet MPLS Procedures

The main diﬀerences of mapping IP to DetNet MPLS (compared to plain MPLS) are that (1) there
is a mandatory ﬂow identiﬁcation to make the forwarding decision (i.e., forwarding is not based
on FEC), (2) the d-CW (DetNet Control Word) is mandatory for the MPLS encapsulation, and (3)
during forwarding over the DetNet MPLS network, treatment speciﬁc to DetNet ﬂows is needed.

5.1.  DetNet IP over DetNet MPLS Flow Identiﬁcation and Aggregation
Procedures

A DetNet relay node (ingress T-PE) that sends a DetNet IP ﬂow over a DetNet MPLS network
map a DetNet IP ﬂow, as identiﬁed in
it in accordance to the procedures deﬁned in
for DetNet IP ﬂows sent over a DetNet MPLS network. Aggregation
Section 4.4 of [RFC8964]
individual DetNet IP ﬂow. The provisioning of the mapping of DetNet IP ﬂows to DetNet MPLS
ﬂows

 be supported via conﬁguration, e.g., via the Controller Plane.

, into a single MPLS DetNet ﬂow and

MAY
[RFC8939] MAY

. Aggregation considerations in

 be supported as deﬁned in
 be used to identify an

 be supported at the MPLS level

MUST
 process

[RFC8939]

[RFC8964]

. PRF

MUST

MUST

MAY

A DetNet relay node (egress T-PE)
MAY
MPLS data plane as DetNet IP ﬂows. A single incoming DetNet MPLS ﬂow
single DetNet IP ﬂow, without examination of IP headers. Alternatively, packets received via the
DetNet MPLS data plane
in

 follow the normal DetNet IP ﬂow identiﬁcation procedures deﬁned

 be provisioned to handle packets received via the DetNet

Section 5.1 of [RFC8939]

 be treated as a

MAY
.

MAY

An implementation
DetNet MPLS data plane as DetNet IP ﬂows via conﬁguration. Note that such conﬁguration
include support from PREOF on the incoming DetNet MPLS ﬂow.

 support the provisioning for handling any packet ﬂows received via the

MUST

MAY

Note: Using Layer 4 (L4) transport protocols (e.g., for multipath) are out of scope of
this document both for a single ﬂow and aggregate ﬂows.

5.2.  DetNet IP over DetNet MPLS Traﬃc Treatment Procedures

The traﬃc treatment required for a particular DetNet IP ﬂow is provisioned via conﬁguration or
the Controller Plane. When a DetNet IP ﬂow is sent over DetNet MPLS, a DetNet relay node
MUST
ensure that the provisioned DetNet IP traﬃc treatment is provided at the forwarding sub-layer as
described in

 be utilized when sending IP over MPLS.

Section 5.2 of [RFC8964]

. Note that PRF

MAY

Varga, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9056

DetNet Data Plane: IP over MPLS

October 2021

Traﬃc treatment for DetNet IP ﬂows received over the DetNet MPLS data plane
Section 5.3 of [RFC8939]

 (DetNet IP Traﬃc Treatment Procedures).

MUST

 follow

6.  Management and Control Information Summary

The following summarizes the set of information that is needed to support DetNet IP over DetNet
MPLS at the MPLS ingress node:

•

Each MPLS App-Flow is selected from the incoming IP traﬃc using the IP ﬂow identiﬁcation
information deﬁned in
document and includes all wildcards, port ranges, and the ability to ignore speciﬁc IP ﬁelds.

. This information is summarized in Section 5.1 of that

[RFC8939]

•

The DetNet MPLS service that is to be used to send the matching IP traﬃc. This matching
information is provided in
 and includes both service and traﬃc
delivery information.

Section 5.1 of [RFC8964]

The following summarizes the set of information that is needed to support DetNet IP over DetNet
MPLS at the MPLS egress node:

•

The S-Label value that identiﬁes the encapsulated App-ﬂow traﬃc.

•

For each S-Label, how the received traﬃc is to be handled. The traﬃc may be processed as any
other DetNet IP traﬃc as deﬁned in this document or in
directly treated as an MPLS App-ﬂow for additional processing according to

, or the traﬃc may be
[RFC8964]
.

[RFC8939]

It is the responsibility of the DetNet Controller Plane to properly provision both ﬂow
identiﬁcation information and the ﬂow-speciﬁc resources needed to provide the traﬃc treatment
to meet each ﬂow's service requirements. This applies for aggregated and individual ﬂows.

7.  Security Considerations

General security considerations for DetNet are described in detail in
DetNet IP security considerations equally apply to this document and are described in
and

[RFC9055]

[RFC8939]

. DetNet MPLS and
[RFC8964]

.

Security aspects that are unique to DetNet are those whose aim is to protect the support of speciﬁc
quality-of-service aspects of DetNet, which are primarily to deliver data ﬂows with extremely low
packet loss rates and bounded end-to-end delivery latency.

The primary considerations for the data plane are to maintain integrity of data and delivery of
the associated DetNet service traversing the DetNet network. Application ﬂows can be protected
through whatever means is provided by the underlying technology. For example, encryption may
be used, such as that provided by IPsec
using MACsec

 for IP ﬂows and/or by an underlying sub-net

 for IP-over-Ethernet (Layer 2) ﬂows.

[IEEE802.1AE-2018]

[RFC4301]

From a data plane perspective, this document does not add or modify any header information.

Varga, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9056

DetNet Data Plane: IP over MPLS

October 2021

At the management and control level, DetNet ﬂows are identiﬁed on a per-ﬂow basis, which may
provide Controller Plane attackers with additional information about the data ﬂows (when
compared to Controller Planes that do not include per-ﬂow identiﬁcation). This is an inherent
property of DetNet, which has security implications that should be considered when determining
if DetNet is a suitable technology for any given use case.

To provide uninterrupted availability of the DetNet service, provisions can be made against DoS
attacks and delay attacks. To protect against DoS attacks, excess traﬃc due to malicious or
malfunctioning devices can be prevented or mitigated, for example, through the use of existing
mechanisms such as policing and shaping applied at the input of a DetNet domain. To prevent
DetNet packets from being delayed by an entity external to a DetNet domain, DetNet technology
deﬁnitions can allow for the mitigation of man-in-the-middle attacks (for example, through use
of authentication and authorization of devices within the DetNet domain).

8.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8655]

[RFC8938]

[RFC8939]

[RFC8964]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
,
.
rfc2119>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,
,
Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
.
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

Finn, N. Thubert, P. Varga, B.
,
,
Architecture" RFC 8655 DOI 10.17487/RFC8655
.
editor.org/info/rfc8655>

, and

,

,

J. Farkas "Deterministic Networking
, October 2019,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Varga, B., Ed. Farkas, J. Berger, L. Malis, A.
,
Networking (DetNet) Data Plane Framework" RFC 8938 DOI 10.17487/RFC8938
November 2020,

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8938>

S. Bryant "Deterministic

, and

,

,

,

,

,

,
Varga, B., Ed. Farkas, J. Berger, L. Fedyk, D.
Networking (DetNet) Data Plane: IP" RFC 8939 DOI 10.17487/RFC8939
2020,

, and
,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8939>

S. Bryant "Deterministic

,

,

,

, November

,

Varga, B., Ed. Farkas, J. Berger, L. Malis, A. Bryant, S.
"Deterministic Networking (DetNet) Data Plane: MPLS" RFC 8964 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8964

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8964>

, January 2021,

, and
,

J. Korhonen

,

,

,

,

Varga, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9056

DetNet Data Plane: IP over MPLS

October 2021

[RFC9055]

,

Grossman, E., Ed. Mizrahi, T.
Security Considerations" RFC 9055 DOI 10.17487/RFC9055
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9055>

A. Hacker "Deterministic Networking (DetNet)
,

, June 2021,

<https://

, and

,

,

9.2.  Informative References

[IEEE802.1AE-2018]

IEEE "IEEE Standard for Local and metropolitan area networks-Media

,

Access Control (MAC) Security" IEEE 802.1AE-2018 DOI 10.1109/IEEESTD.
2018.8585421

<https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8585421>
.

, December 2018,

,

,

[RFC4301]

,
K. Seo "Security Architecture for the Internet Protocol" RFC 4301

,

, December 2005,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4301>

 and

Kent, S.
DOI 10.17487/RFC4301

,

Acknowledgements

The authors wish to thank
Cummings Ethan Grossman Tal Mizrahi David Mozes Craig Gunther George Swallow Yuanlong
Jiang

Pat Thaler Norman Finn Loa Andersson David Black Rodney

,
,
Carlos J. Bernardos

 for their various contributions to this work.

, and

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Contributors

RFC 7322 limits the number of authors listed on the front page to a maximum of 5. The editor
wishes to thank and acknowledge the following authors for contributing text to this document.

János Farkas
Ericsson
Email:

 janos.farkas@ericsson.com

Andrew G. Malis
Malis Consulting
Email:

 agmalis@gmail.com

János Farkas

 contributed substantially to the content of this document.

Authors' Addresses

editor
)

Balázs Varga (
Ericsson
Budapest
Magyar Tudosok krt. 11.
1117
Hungary
Email:

 balazs.a.varga@ericsson.com

Varga, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9056

DetNet Data Plane: IP over MPLS

October 2021

Lou Berger
LabN Consulting, L.L.C.
Email:

 lberger@labn.net

Don Fedyk
LabN Consulting, L.L.C.
Email:

 dfedyk@labn.net

Stewart Bryant
Futurewei Technologies
Email:

 sb@stewartbryant.com

Jouni Korhonen
Email:

 jouni.nospam@gmail.com

Varga, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

