Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9799
Standards Track
June 2025
2070-1721
Q Misell, Ed.
AS207960

RFC 9799
Automated Certificate Management Environment
(ACME) Extensions for ".onion" Special-Use Domain
Names

Abstract

This document defines extensions to the Automated Certificate Management Environment
(ACME) to allow for the automatic issuance of certificates to Tor Hidden Services (".onion"
Special-Use Domain Names).

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9799
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in effect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Misell

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9799

ACME for ".onion"

June 2025

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

2.  Identifier

3.  Identifier Validation Challenges

3.1.  Existing Challenges

3.1.1.  Existing: "dns-01" Challenge

3.1.2.  Existing: http-01 Challenge

3.1.3.  Existing tls-alpn-01 Challenge

3.2.  New onion-csr-01 Challenge

4.  Client Authentication to Hidden Services

5.  ACME over Hidden Services

6.  Certification Authority Authorization (CAA)

6.1.  Relevant Resource Record Set

6.2.  When to Check CAA

6.3.  Preventing Mis-Issuance by Unknown CAs

6.4.  Alternative In-Band Presentation of CAA

6.4.1.  ACME Servers Requiring In-Band CAA

6.4.2.  Example In-Band CAA

7.  IANA Considerations

7.1.  Validation Methods

7.2.  Error Types

7.3.  Directory Metadata Fields

8.  Security Considerations

8.1.  Security of the onion-csr-01 Challenge

8.2.  Use of the "dns" Identifier Type

8.2.1.  http-01 Challenge

8.2.2.  tls-alpn-01 Challenge

3

4

4

4

4

4

5

5

5

7

8

8

9

9

9

10

11

12

12

12

13

13

13

13

13

14

14

Misell

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9799

ACME for ".onion"

June 2025

8.2.3.  dns-01 Challenge

8.3.  Key Authorization with onion-csr-01

8.4.  Use of Tor for Domains That Are Not ".onion"

8.5.  Redirects with http-01

8.6.  Security of CAA Records

8.7.  In-Band CAA

8.8.  Access of the Tor Network

8.9.  Anonymity of the ACME Client

8.9.1.  Avoid Unnecessary Certificates

8.9.2.  Obfuscate Subscriber Information

8.9.3.  Separate ACME Account Keys

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Discussion on the Use of the "dns" Identifier Type

Acknowledgements

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

14

14

14

14

15

15

15

15

15

15

16

16

16

17

17

18

18

The Tor network has the ability to host "Onion Services"
network. These services use the ".onion" Special-Use Domain Name
 to identify these
services. These can be used as any other domain name could, but they do not form part of the
DNS infrastructure.

 only accessible via the Tor

[RFC7686]

[tor-spec]

The Automated Certificate Management Environment (ACME)
validating control of DNS identifiers, and whilst a ".onion" Special-Use Domain Name may
appear as a DNS name, it requires special consideration to validate control of one such that
ACME could be used on ".onion" Special-Use Domain Names.

[RFC8555]

 defines challenges for

In order to allow ACME to be utilized to issue certificates to ".onion" Special-Use Domain Names,
this document specifies challenges suitable to validate control of these Special-Use Domain
Names. Additionally, this document defines an alternative to the DNS Certification Authority
Authorization (CAA) Resource Record
Domain Names.

 that can be used with ".onion" Special-Use

[RFC8659]

Misell

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9799

ACME for ".onion"

June 2025

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Identifier

 defines the "dns" identifier type. This identifier type

[RFC8555]
certificate for a ".onion" Special-Use Domain Name. The value of the identifier
textual representation as defined in the "Special Hostnames in Tor - .onion" section of
The value
used as these are now considered insecure.

 include subdomain labels. Version 2 addresses

MUST

MUST

MAY

[tor-rend-spec-v2] MUST NOT

 be

 be the

[tor-spec]
.

 be used when requesting a

Example identifiers (line breaks have been added for readability only):

{
  "type": "dns",
  "value": "bbcweb3hytmzhn5d532owbu6oqadra5z3ar726v
        q5kgwwn6aucdccrad.onion"
}

{
  "type": "dns",
  "value": "www.bbcweb3hytmzhn5d532owbu6oqadra5z3ar726v
        q5kgwwn6aucdccrad.onion"
}

3.  Identifier Validation Challenges

The CA/Browser Forum Baseline Requirements define methods accepted by the CA industry for
). This document
validation of ".onion" Special-Use Domain Names (see
incorporates these methods into ACME challenges.

Appendix B.2 of [cabf-br]

3.1.  Existing Challenges

3.1.1.  Existing: "dns-01" Challenge

The existing "dns-01" challenge
Names as these domains are not part of the DNS.

MUST NOT

 be used to validate ".onion" Special-Use Domain

Misell

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9799

ACME for ".onion"

June 2025

3.1.2.  Existing: http-01 Challenge

The http-01 challenge, as defined in
Special-Use Domain Name with the modifications defined in this document, namely those
described in Sections 4 and 6.

Section 8.3 of [RFC8555] MAY

 be used to validate a ".onion"

,

SHOULD

The ACME server
not ".onion" and that the server
that the response can be provided by a centralized certificate management server. See
10.2 of [RFC8555]

 be redirects to services that are
 honor these. For example, clients might use redirects so

 for security considerations on why a server might not want to follow redirects.

 follow redirects. Note that these

SHOULD

Section

MAY

3.1.3.  Existing tls-alpn-01 Challenge

The tls-alpn-01 challenge, as defined in
 be used to validate a ".onion" Special-
Use Domain Name with the modifications defined in this document, namely those described in
Sections 4 and 6.

[RFC8737] MAY

,

3.2.  New onion-csr-01 Challenge

The two ACME-defined methods allowed by CA/BF described in Sections 3.1.2 and 3.1.3 (http-01
and tls-alpn-01) do not allow issuance of wildcard certificates. A ".onion" Special-Use Domain
Name can have subdomains (just like any other domain in the DNS), and a site operator may
find it useful to have one certificate for all virtual hosts on their site. This new validation method
Appendix B.2.b
incorporates the specially signed Certificate Signing Request (CSR) (as defined by
of [cabf-br]

) into ACME to allow for the issuance of wildcard certificates.

To this end, a new challenge called onion-csr-01 is defined, with the following fields:

type (required, string):

The string onion-csr-01.

nonce (required, string):

A Base64-encoded nonce

[RFC4648]

 contain at least 64 bits of entropy. A response generated using this nonce

MUST NOT
MUST
accepted by the ACME server if the nonce used was generated by the server more than 30
days prior (as per

Appendix B.2.b of [cabf-br]

).

 including padding characters. It
 be

authKey (optional, object):

The ACME server's Ed25519 public key encoded as per

[RFC8037]
.

This is further defined in Section 4.

{
  "type": "onion-csr-01",
  "url": "https://acme-server.example.onion/acme/chall/bbc625c5",
  "status": "pending",
  "nonce": "bI6/MRqV4gw=",
  "authKey": { ... }
}

An onion-csr-01 challenge
Names that are not ".onion".

MUST NOT

 be used to issue certificates for Special-Use Domain

Misell

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9799

ACME for ".onion"

June 2025

Clients prove control over the key associated with the ".onion" service by generating a Certificate
Request (CSR)
the private key of the ".onion" Special-Use Domain Name:

 with the following additional extension attributes and signing it with

[RFC2986]

•

A caSigningNonce attribute containing the nonce provided in the challenge. This
raw bytes and not the base64 encoded value provided in the challenge object.

MUST

 be

•

An applicantSigningNonce attribute containing a nonce generated by the client. This
have at least 64 bits of entropy. This

 be raw bytes.

MUST

MUST

These additional attributes have the following format

cabf OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::=
  { joint-iso-itu-t(2) international-organizations(23)
    ca-browser-forum(140) }

cabf-caSigningNonce OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { cabf 41 }

caSigningNonce ATTRIBUTE ::= {
  WITH SYNTAX             OCTET STRING
  EQUALITY MATCHING RULE  octetStringMatch
  SINGLE VALUE            TRUE
  ID                      { cabf-caSigningNonce }
}

cabf-applicantSigningNonce OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { cabf 42 }

applicantSigningNonce ATTRIBUTE ::= {
  WITH SYNTAX             OCTET STRING
  EQUALITY MATCHING RULE  octetStringMatch
  SINGLE VALUE            TRUE
  ID                      { cabf-applicantSigningNonce }
}

The subject of the CSR need not be meaningful and CAs
public key presented in this CSR
MUST
Use Domain Name being validated. It
finalize the order.

MUST NOT

 validate its contents. The

 be the public key corresponding to the ".onion" Special-
 be the same public key presented in the CSR to
MUST NOT

Clients respond with the following object to validate the challenge:

csr (required, string):

The CSR in the base64url-encoded version of the DER format. (Note:

Because this field uses base64url, and does not include headers, it is different from Privacy
Enhanced Mail (PEM).)

Misell

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9799

ACME for ".onion"

June 2025

POST /acme/chall/bbc625c5
Host: acme-server.example.onion
Content-Type: application/jose+json

{
  "protected": base64url({
    "alg": "ES256",
    "kid":
        "https://acme-server.example.onion/acme/acct/evOfKhNU60wg",
    "nonce": "UQI1PoRi5OuXzxuX7V7wL0",
    "url": "https://acme-server.example.onion/acme/chall/bbc625c5"
  }),
  "payload": base64url({
    "csr": "MIIBPTCBxAIBADBFMQ...FS6aKdZeGsysoCo4H9P"
  }),
  "signature": "Q1bURgJoEslbD1c5...3pYdSMLio57mQNN4"
}

When presented with the CSR, the server verifies it in the following manner:

1.

The CSR is a well formatted PKCS#10 request.

2.

The public key in the CSR corresponds to the ".onion" Special-Use Domain Name being
validated.

3.

The signature over the CSR validates with the ".onion" Special-Use Domain Name public key.

4.

The caSigningNonce attribute is present and its contents match the nonce provided to the
client.

5.

The applicantSigningNonce attribute is present and contains at least 64 bits of entropy.

If all of the above are successful then validation succeeds, otherwise it has failed.

4.  Client Authentication to Hidden Services

Some Hidden Services do not wish to be accessible to the entire Tor network, and so they
encrypt their Hidden Service Descriptor with the keys of clients authorized to connect. Without
a way for the CA to signal what key it will use to connect, these services will not be able to obtain
a certificate using http-01 or tls-alpn-01, nor enforce CAA with any validation method.

To this end, an additional field in the challenge object is defined to allow the ACME server to
advertise the Ed25519 public key it will use (as per the "Authentication during the introduction
phase" section of

) to authenticate itself when retrieving the Hidden Service Descriptor.

[tor-spec]

authKey (optional, object):

The ACME server's Ed25519 public key encoded as per

[RFC8037]

.

ACME servers
MAY

 reuse public keys for re-validation of the same Hidden Service.

MUST NOT

 use the same public key with multiple Hidden Services. ACME servers

Misell

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9799

ACME for ".onion"

June 2025

There is no method to communicate to the CA that client authentication is necessary; instead,
the ACME server
[tor-spec]
computed client-id, then the server
MUST
authentication and proceed accordingly.

. If no auth-client line in the First Layer Hidden Service Descriptor matches the

 attempt to calculate its CLIENT-ID as per the "Client behavior" section of

 assume that the Hidden Service does not require client

MUST

In the case in which the Ed25519 public key is novel to the client, it will have to resign and
republish its Hidden Service Descriptor. It
MUST
the new descriptor to propagate the Tor Hidden Service directory servers before proceeding
with responding to the challenge. This should take no more than a few minutes. This
specification does not set a fixed time as changes in the operation of the Tor network can affect
this propagation time in the future. ACME servers
reasonable time to allow publication of the new descriptor. It is
at least 30 minutes; however, it is entirely up to operator preference.

 wait some (indeterminate) amount of time for

 expire challenges before a

RECOMMENDED

MUST NOT

 the server allow

5.  ACME over Hidden Services

A CA offering certificates to ".onion" Special-Use Domain Names
SHOULD
 also support connecting to ACME
server available as a Tor Hidden Service. ACME clients
SHOULD
servers over Tor, regardless of their support of onion-csr-01, as their existing http-01 and tls-
alpn-01 implementations could be used to obtain certificates for ".onion" Special-Use Domain
Names.

 make their ACME

6.  Certification Authority Authorization (CAA)

".onion" Special-Use Domain Names are not part of the DNS; as such, a variation on CAA
[RFC8659]
 is necessary to allow restrictions to be placed on certificate issuance.

To this end, a new field is added to the Second Layer Hidden Service Descriptor, as defined in the
"Second layer plaintext format" section of
 with the following format (defined using the
notation from the "netdoc document meta-format" section of

[tor-spec]

[tor-spec]

):

"caa" SP flags SP tag SP value NL
[Any number of times]

The presentation format is provided above purely for the convenience of the reader and
implementors: the canonical version remains that defined in
future updates to the same.

Section 4.1.1 of [RFC8659]

, or

MAY

The contents of "flags", "tag", and "value" are as per
records
are to be treated the same by CAs as if they had been in the DNS for the ".onion" Special-Use
Domain Name.

 be present, as is the case in the DNS. CAA records in a Hidden Service Descriptor

Section 4.1.1 of [RFC8659]

. Multiple CAA

A Hidden Service's Second Layer Descriptor using CAA could look something like the following
(additional line breaks have been added for readability):

Misell

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9799

ACME for ".onion"

June 2025

create2-formats 2
single-onion-service
caa 128 issue "acmeforonions.example;validationmethods=onion-csr-01"
caa 0 iodef "mailto:security@example.com"
introduction-point AwAGsAk5nSMpAhRqhMHbTFCTSlfhP8f5PqUhe6DatgMgk7kSL3
        KHCZUZ3C6tXDeRfM9SyNY0DlgbF8q+QSaGKCs=
...

6.1.  Relevant Resource Record Set

In the absence of the possibility for delegation of subdomains from a ".onion" Special-Use
Domain Name, as there is in the DNS, there is no need, nor indeed any method available, to
search up the DNS tree for a relevant CAA record set. Similarly, it is also impossible to check CAA
records on the "onion" Special-Use Top-Level Domain (TLD), as it does not exist in any form
; therefore, implementors
except as described in

 look there either.

[RFC7686]

MUST NOT

Instead, all subdomains under a ".onion" Special-Use Domain Name share the same CAA record
set. That is, all of these share a CAA record set with "a.onion":

•

b.a.onion

•

c.a.onion

•

e.d.a.onion

but these do not:

•

b.c.onion

•

c.d.onion

•

e.c.d.onion

•

a.b.onion

6.2.  When to Check CAA

If the Hidden Service has client authentication enabled, then it will be impossible for the ACME
server to decrypt the Second Layer Hidden Service Descriptor to read the CAA records until the
ACME server's public key has been added to the First Layer Hidden Service Descriptor. To this
end, an ACME server
 wait until the client responds to an authorization before checking
the CAA and treat this response as an indication that their public key has been added and that
the ACME server will be able to decrypt the Second Layer Hidden Service Descriptor.

MUST

6.3.  Preventing Mis-Issuance by Unknown CAs

In the case of a Hidden Service requiring client authentication, the CA will be unable to read the
hidden service's CAA records without the Hidden Service trusting an ACME server's public key --
as the CAA records are in the Second Layer Hidden Service Descriptor. A method is necessary to
signal that there are CAA records present (but not reveal their contents, which, in certain
circumstances, would unwantedly disclose information about the Hidden Service operator).

Misell

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9799

ACME for ".onion"

June 2025

To this end, a new field is added to the First Layer Hidden Service Descriptor in the "First layer
plaintext format" section of
from the "netdoc document meta-format" section of

 with the following format (defined using the notation

[tor-spec]

[tor-spec]

):

"caa-critical" NL
[At most once]

If an ACME server encounters this flag, it
and parse the CAA records from the Second Layer Hidden Service Descriptor.

MUST NOT

 proceed with issuance until it can decrypt

6.4.  Alternative In-Band Presentation of CAA

An ACME server might be unwilling to operate the infrastructure required to fetch, decode, and
verify Tor Hidden Service Descriptors in order to check CAA records. To this end a method to
signal CAA policies in-band of ACME is defined.

If a Hidden Service does use this method to provide CAA records to an ACME server, it
still publish CAA records if its CAA record set includes "iodef", "contactemail", or "contactphone"
so that this information is still publicly accessible. Additionally, a Hidden Service operator
not wish to publish a CAA record set in its Hidden Service Descriptor to avoid revealing
information about the service operator.

SHOULD

MAY

If an ACME server receives a validly signed CAA record set in the finalize request, it
proceed with issuance on the basis of the client-provided CAA record set only, without checking
the CAA set in the Hidden Service. Alternatively, an ACME server
 ignore the client provided
record set and fetch the record set from the Hidden Service Descriptor. In any case, the server
 fetch the record set from the Hidden Service Descriptor. If an ACME server receives a
MAY
validly signed CAA record set in the finalize request, it need not check the CAA set in the Hidden
Service Descriptor and can proceed with issuance on the basis of the client-provided CAA record
set only. An ACME server
the record set from the Hidden Service Descriptor.

 ignore the client-provided record set and is free to always fetch

MAY

MAY

MAY

A new field is defined in the ACME finalize endpoint to contain the Hidden Service's CAA record
set for each ".onion" Special-Use Domain Name in the order.

onionCAA (optional, dictionary of objects):

The CAA record set for each ".onion" Special-Use

Domain Name in the order. The key is the ".onion" Special-Use Domain Name, and the value
is an object with the fields described below.

The contents of the values of the "onionCAA" object are as follows:

caa (required, string or null):

The CAA record set as a string, encoded in the same way as if was

included in the Hidden Service Descriptor. If the Hidden Service does not have a CAA record
set, then this

 be null.

MUST

Misell

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9799

ACME for ".onion"

June 2025

expiry (required, integer):

The Unix timestamp at which this CAA record set will expire. This

SHOULD NOT
64-bit integer to ensure functionality beyond 2038.

 be more than 8 hours in the future. ACME servers

MUST

 process this as at least a

signature (required, string):

The Ed25519 signature of the CAA record set using the private key

corresponding to the ".onion" Special-Use Domain Name, encoded using base64url. The
signature is defined below.

The data that the signature is calculated over is the concatenation of the following, encoded in
UTF-8

[RFC3629]
:

"onion-caa|" || expiry || "|" || caa

Where "|" is the ASCII character 0x7C, and expiry is the expiry field as a decimal string with no
leading zeros. If the caa field is null, it is represented as an empty string in the signature
calculation.

6.4.1.  ACME Servers Requiring In-Band CAA

If an ACME server does not support fetching a service's CAA record set from its Hidden Service
Descriptor, and the ACME client does not provide an "onionCAA" object in its finalize request, the
 respond with an "onionCAARequired" error to indicate this.
ACME server

MUST

To support signaling the server's support for fetching CAA record sets over Tor, a new field is
defined in the directory "meta" object to signal this.

inBandOnionCAARequired (optional, boolean):

If true, the ACME server requires the client to

provide the CAA record set in the finalize request. If false or absent, the ACME server does
not require the client to provide the CAA record set is this manner.

A directory of such a CA could look like the following:

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "newNonce": "https://acme-server.example.onion/acme/new-nonce",
  "newAccount": "https://acme-server.example.onion/acme/new-account",
  "newOrder": "https://acme-server.example.onion/acme/new-order",
  "revokeCert": "https://acme-server.example.onion/acme/revoke-cert",
  "keyChange": "https://acme-server.example.onion/acme/key-change",
  "meta": {
    "termsOfService":
        "https://acme-server.example.onion/acme/terms/2023-10-13",
    "website": "https://acmeforonions.example/",
    "caaIdentities": ["acmeforonions.example"],
    "inBandOnionCAARequired": true
  }
}

Misell

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9799

ACME for ".onion"

June 2025

6.4.2.  Example In-Band CAA

Given the following example CAA record set for
5anebu2glyc235wbbop3m2ukzlaptpkq333vdtdvcjpigyb7x2i2m2qd.onion (additional line breaks
have been added for readability):

caa 128 issue "acmeforonions.example;
            validationmethods=onion-csr-01"
caa 0 iodef "mailto:example@example.com"

The following would be submitted to the ACME server's finalize endpoint (additional line breaks
have been added for readability):

POST /acme/order/TOlocE8rfgo/finalize
Host: acme-server.example.onion
Content-Type: application/jose+json

{
  "protected": base64url({
    "alg": "ES256",
    "kid":
        "https://acme-server.example.onion/acme/acct/evOfKhNU60wg",
    "nonce": "MSF2j2nawWHPxxkE3ZJtKQ",
    "url": "https://acme-server.example.onion/acme/order/
        TOlocE8rfgo/finalize"
  }),
  "payload": base64url({
    "csr": "MIIBPTCBxAIBADBFMQ...FS6aKdZeGsysoCo4H9P",
    "onionCAA": {
      "5anebu2glyc235wbbop3m2ukzlaptpkq333vdtdvcjpi
            gyb7x2i2m2qd.onion": {
        "caa": "caa 128 issue \"acmeforonions.example;
            validationmethods=onion-csr-01\"\n
            caa 0 iodef \"mailto:example@example.com\"",
        "expiry": 1697210719,
        "signature": "u_iP6JZ4JZBrzQUKH6lSrWejjRfeQmkTuehc0_FaaTNP
            AV0RVxpUz9r44DRdy6kgy0ofnx18KIhMrP7N1wpxAA=="
      }
    }
  }),
  "signature": "uOrUfIIk5RyQ...nw62Ay1cl6AB"
}

7.  IANA Considerations

7.1.  Validation Methods

One new entry has been added to the "ACME Validation Methods" registry that was defined in
Section 9.7.8 of [RFC8555] <https://www.iana.org/assignments/acme>

 (

).

Misell

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9799

ACME for ".onion"

June 2025

Label

Identifier Type ACME

Reference

onion-csr-01

dns

Y

RFC 9799

Table 1: onion-csr-01 Validation Method

7.2.  Error Types

One new entry has been added to the "ACME Error Types" registry that was defined in
9.7.4 of [RFC8555] <https://www.iana.org/assignments/acme>

 (

).

Section

Type

Description

onionCAARequired

The CA only supports checking the CAA for Hidden
Services in-band, but the client has not provided an in-
band CAA

Reference

RFC 9799

Table 2: onionCAARequired Error Type

7.3.  Directory Metadata Fields

One new entry has been added to the "ACME Directory Metadata Fields" registry that was
Section 9.7.6 of [RFC8555] <https://www.iana.org/assignments/acme>
defined in

 (

).

Field name

Field type

Reference

onionCAARequired

boolean

RFC 9799

Table 3: onionCAARequired Metadata Field

8.  Security Considerations

8.1.  Security of the onion-csr-01 Challenge

The security considerations of

[cabf-br]

 apply to issuance using the Certificate Request method.

8.2.  Use of the "dns" Identifier Type

The reuse of the "dns" identifier type for a Special-Use Domain Name not actually in the DNS
infrastructure raises questions regarding its suitability. The reasons to pursue this path in the
first place are detailed in Appendix A. It is felt that there is little security concern in reuse of the
"dns" identifier type with regard to the mis-issuance by CAs that are not aware of ".onion"
Special-Use Domain Names as CAs would not be able to resolve the identifier in the DNS.

Misell

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9799

ACME for ".onion"

June 2025

8.2.1.  http-01 Challenge

In the absence of knowledge of this document, a CA would follow the procedure set out in
Section 8.3 of [RFC8555]
GET request". Given that ".onion" Special-Use Domain Names require special handling to
dereference, this dereferencing will fail, disallowing issuance.

, which specifies that the CA should "Dereference the URL using an HTTP

8.2.2.  tls-alpn-01 Challenge

In the absence of knowledge of this document, a CA would follow the procedure set out in
Section 3 of [RFC8737]
and chooses one of the IP addresses returned for validation". Given that ".onion" Special-Use
Domain Names are not resolvable to IP addresses, this dereferencing will fail, disallowing
issuance.

, which specifies that the CA "resolves the domain name being validated

8.2.3.  dns-01 Challenge

In the absence of knowledge of this document, a CA would follow the procedure set out in
Section 8.4 of [RFC8555]
, which specifies that the CA should "query for TXT records for the
validation domain name". Given that ".onion" Special-Use Domain Names are not present in the
DNS infrastructure, this query will fail, disallowing issuance.

8.3.  Key Authorization with onion-csr-01

The onion-csr-01 challenge does not make use of the key authorization string defined in
8.1 of [RFC8555]

. This does not weaken the integrity of authorizations.

Section

The key authorization exists to ensure that, whilst an attacker observing the validation channel
can observe the correct validation response, they cannot compromise the integrity of
authorizations as the response can only be used with the account key for which it was
generated. As the validation channel for this challenge is ACME itself, and ACME already
requires that the request be signed by the account, the key authorization is not necessary.

8.4.  Use of Tor for Domains That Are Not ".onion"

An ACME server
the risk of exit hijacking

MUST NOT

[spoiled-onions]
.

 utilize Tor for the validation of domains that are not ".onion", due to

8.5.  Redirects with http-01

MAY

MUST

 redirect to another site when completing validation using the http-01 challenge. This
 be to either another ".onion" Special-Use Domain Name or a domain in the public

A site
redirect
MAY
DNS. A site operator
 consider the privacy implications of redirecting to a site that is not
".onion" -- namely that the ACME server operator will then be able to learn information about
the site they were redirected to that they would not have if accessed via a ".onion" Special-Use
Domain Name, such as its IP address. If the site redirected to is on the same or an adjacent host
to the ".onion" Special-Use Domain Name, this reveals information that the "Tor Rendezvous
Specification - Version 3" section of

 was otherwise designed to protect.

[tor-spec]

Misell

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9799

ACME for ".onion"

June 2025

If an ACME server receives a redirect to a domain in the public DNS, it
make a connection to it due to the risk of exit hijacking.

MUST NOT

 utilize Tor to

8.6.  Security of CAA Records

The Second Layer Hidden Service Descriptor is signed, encrypted, and encoded using a Message
Authentication Code (MAC) in a way that only a party with access to the secret key of the Hidden
Service could manipulate what is published there. For more information about this process, see
the "Hidden service descriptors: encryption format" section of

[tor-spec]
.

8.7.  In-Band CAA

Tor directory servers are inherently untrusted entities. As such, there is no difference in the
security model for accepting CAA records directly from the ACME client or fetching them over
Tor: the CAA records are verified using the same hidden service key in either case.

8.8.  Access of the Tor Network

The ACME server
MUST NOT

 outsource this to a third-party service, such as Tor2Web.

MUST

 make its own connection to the Hidden Service via the Tor network and

8.9.  Anonymity of the ACME Client

ACME clients requesting certificates for ".onion" Special-Use Domain Names not over the Tor
network can inadvertently expose the existence of a Hidden Service on the host requesting
certificates to unintended parties; this is true even when features such as Encrypted ClientHello
(ECH)
and not used for any other purpose.

 are utilized, as the IP addresses of ACME servers are generally well-known, static,

[tls-esni]

ACME clients
a Hidden Service endpoint if the CA provides such a service.

SHOULD

 connect to ACME servers over the Tor network to alleviate this, preferring

If an ACME client requests a publicly trusted WebPKI certificate, it will expose the existence of
the Hidden Service publicly due to its inclusion in Certificate Transparency logs
Hidden Service operators
WebPKI certificates. ACME client developers
certificates for Hidden Services.

[RFC9162]
.
 consider the privacy implications of this before requesting

 warn users about the risks of CT-logged

SHOULD

MUST

8.9.1.  Avoid Unnecessary Certificates

Not all services will need a publicly trusted WebPKI certificate; for internal or non-public
services, operators
logged to certificate transparency.

 consider using self-signed or privately trusted certificates that aren't

SHOULD

8.9.2.  Obfuscate Subscriber Information

When an ACME client is registering with an ACME server, it
obfuscated subscriber details to the CA, such as a pseudonymous email address, if at all possible.

 provide minimal or

SHOULD

Misell

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9799

ACME for ".onion"

June 2025

8.9.3.  Separate ACME Account Keys

If a Hidden Service operator does not want their different Hidden Services to be correlated by a
CA, they

 use separate ACME account keys for each Hidden Service.

MUST

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC2986]

[RFC4648]

[RFC7686]

[RFC8037]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8555]

[RFC8659]

[RFC8737]

[RFC3629]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

 and

Nystrom, M.
Specification Version 1.7" RFC 2986 DOI 10.17487/RFC2986
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2986>

B. Kaliski "PKCS #10: Certification Request Syntax

,

,

,

.

, November 2000,

Josefsson, S. "The Base16, Base32, and Base64 Data Encodings" RFC 4648 DOI
10.17487/RFC4648

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4648>

, October 2006,

,

,

.

 and

Appelbaum, J.
7686 DOI 10.17487/RFC7686
,
rfc7686>

.

A. Muffett "The ".onion" Special-Use Domain Name" RFC
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,
, October 2015,

,

,

Liusvaara, I. "CFRG Elliptic Curve Diffie-Hellman (ECDH) and Signatures in
JSON Object Signing and Encryption (JOSE)" RFC 8037 DOI 10.17487/RFC8037
January 2017,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8037>

,

.

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Barnes, R. Hoffman-Andrews, J. McCarney, D.
J. Kasten "Automatic
Certificate Management Environment (ACME)" RFC 8555 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8555

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8555>

, March 2019,

, and
,

,

,

,

.

,

Hallam-Baker, P. Stradling, R.
J. Hoffman-Andrews "DNS Certification
Authority Authorization (CAA) Resource Record" RFC 8659 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8659

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8659>

, November 2019,

, and

,

,

,

.

,

Shoemaker, R.B. "Automated Certificate Management Environment (ACME) TLS
Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation (ALPN) Challenge Extension" RFC 8737
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC8737
rfc8737>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, February 2020,

,

.

Yergeau, F. "UTF-8, a transformation format of ISO 10646" STD 63 RFC 3629
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC3629
rfc3629>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, November 2003,

,

,

.

,

Misell

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9799

ACME for ".onion"

June 2025

[tor-spec]

The Tor Project "Tor Specifications" <https://spec.torproject.org>

,

,

.

[tor-rend-spec-v2]

The Tor Project "Tor Rendezvous Specification - Version 2" commit

,

,

2437d19c <https://spec.torproject.org/rend-spec-v2>

,

.

[cabf-br]

,

CA/Browser Forum "Baseline Requirements for the Issuance and Management
of Publicly-Trusted TLS Server Certificates" Version 2.0.6
<https://cabforum.org/working-groups/server/baseline-requirements/
documents/CA-Browser-Forum-TLS-BR-2.0.6.pdf>

, 5 August 2024,

,

.

9.2.  Informative References

[onion-services-setup]

,
community.torproject.org/onion-services/setup/>

The Tor Project "Set Up Your Onion Service" <https://

,

.

[spoiled-onions]

,

,

,

Winter, P. Köwer, R. Mulazzani, M. Huber, M. Schrittwieser, S. Lindskog, S.
,
E. Weippl "Spoiled Onions: Exposing Malicious Tor Exit Relays" Privacy
and
Enhancing Technologies (PETS 2014), Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol.
8555, pp. 304-331 DOI 10.1007/978-3-319-08506-7_16
10.1007/978-3-319-08506-7_16>

<https://doi.org/

, 2014,

,

,

,

,

.

,

[tls-esni]

[RFC9162]

,

Rescorla, E. Oku, K. Sullivan, N.
Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-tls-esni-25
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-tls-esni-25>

, and

,

,

,

.

C. A. Wood "TLS Encrypted Client Hello"

,

, 14 June 2025,

<https://

Laurie, B. Messeri, E.
,
RFC 9162 DOI 10.17487/RFC9162
,
info/rfc9162>

, and

.

R. Stradling "Certificate Transparency Version 2.0"
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, December 2021,

,

Appendix A.  Discussion on the Use of the "dns" Identifier Type

The reasons for utilizing the "dns" identifier type in ACME and not defining a new identifier type
for ".onion" may not seem obvious at first glance. After all, ".onion" Special-Use Domain Names
are not part of the DNS infrastructure and, as such, why should they use the "dns" identifier type?

 defines, and this document allows, using the http-01 or tls-

Appendix B.2.a.ii of [cabf-br]
alpn-01 validation methods already present in ACME (with some considerations). Given the
situation of a web server placed behind a Tor-terminating proxy (as per the setup suggested by
the Tor project
), existing ACME tooling can be blind to the fact that a
".onion" Special-Use Domain Name is being utilized, as they simply receive an incoming TCP
connection as they would regardless (albeit from the Tor-terminating proxy).

[onion-services-setup]

An example of this would be Certbot placing the ACME challenge response file in the webroot of
an NGINX web server. Neither Certbot nor NGINX would require any modification to be aware
of any special handling for ".onion" Special-Use Domain Names.

This does raise some questions regarding security within existing implementations; however,
the authors believe this is of little concern, as per Section 8.2.

Misell

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9799

ACME for ".onion"

June 2025

Acknowledgements

With thanks to the Open Technology Fund for funding the work that went into this document.

The authors also wish to thank the following for their input on this document:

• Iain Learmonth

• Jan-Frederik Rieckers

Author's Address

editor
)

Q Misell (
AS207960 Cyfyngedig
13 Pen-y-lan Terrace
Caerdydd
CF23 9EU
United Kingdom
Email:
URI:

q@as207960.net, q@magicalcodewit.ch

https://magicalcodewit.ch

Misell

Standards Track

Page 18

