Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9133
Standards Track
September 2021
2070-1721
K. Nishizuka
NTT Communications

M. Boucadair
Orange

T. Reddy.K
Akamai

T. Nagata
Lepidum

RFC 9133
Controlling Filtering Rules Using Distributed Denial-
of-Service Open Threat Signaling (DOTS) Signal
Channel

Abstract

This document speciﬁes an extension to the Distributed Denial-of-Service Open Threat Signaling
(DOTS) signal channel protocol so that DOTS clients can control their ﬁltering rules when an
attack mitigation is active.

Particularly, this extension allows a DOTS client to activate or deactivate existing ﬁltering rules
during a Distributed Denial-of-Service (DDoS) attack. The characterization of these ﬁltering rules
is conveyed by a DOTS client during an 'idle' time (i.e., no mitigation is active) by means of the
DOTS data channel protocol.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9133

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Nishizuka, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9133

DOTS Signal Filter Control

September 2021

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Nishizuka, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9133

DOTS Signal Filter Control

September 2021

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  The Problem

1.2.  Controlling Filtering Rules Using DOTS Signal Channel

2.  Terminology

3.  Controlling Filtering Rules of a DOTS Client

3.1.  Binding DOTS Data and Signal Channels

3.2.  DOTS Signal Channel Extension

3.2.1.  Parameters and Behaviors

3.2.2.  DOTS Signal Filtering Control Module

3.2.2.1.  Tree Structure

3.2.2.2.  YANG Module

4.  Some Examples

4.1.  Conﬂict Handling

4.2.  On-Demand Activation of an Accept-List Filter

4.3.  DOTS Servers/Mitigators Lacking Capacity

5.  IANA Considerations

5.1.  DOTS Signal Channel CBOR Key Values Subregistry

5.2.  A New YANG Module

6.  Security Considerations

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

Nishizuka, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9133

DOTS Signal Filter Control

September 2021

1.  Introduction

1.1.  The Problem

In the Distributed Denial-of-Service Open Threat Signaling (DOTS) architecture
clients and servers communicate using both a signal channel protocol
channel protocol

[RFC8783]
.

[RFC9132]

[RFC8811]

, DOTS

 and a data

[RFC8783]

 is used for bulk data exchange between DOTS agents

The DOTS data channel protocol
to improve the coordination of parties involved in the response to a Distributed Denial-of-Service
(DDoS) attack. Filter management, which is one of the tasks of the DOTS data channel protocol,
enables a DOTS client to retrieve the ﬁltering capabilities of a DOTS server and to manage
ﬁltering rules. Typically, these ﬁltering rules are used for dropping or rate-limiting unwanted
traﬃc, and permitting accept-listed traﬃc.

[RFC9132]

The DOTS signal channel protocol
 is designed to be resilient under extremely hostile
network conditions and provides continued contact between DOTS agents even as DDoS attack
traﬃc saturates the link. The DOTS signal channel can be established between two DOTS agents
prior to or during an attack. At any time, the DOTS client may send mitigation requests (as per
) to a DOTS server over the active signal channel. While mitigation is
Section 4.4 of [RFC9132]
active, the DOTS server periodically sends status messages to the DOTS client, including basic
mitigation feedback details. In case of a massive DDoS attack that saturates the incoming link(s)
to the DOTS client, all traﬃc from the DOTS server to the DOTS client will likely be dropped.
However, the DOTS server may still receive DOTS messages sent from the DOTS client over the
signaling channel thanks to the heartbeat requests keeping the channel active (as described in
Section 4.7 of [RFC9132]

).

Unlike the DOTS signal channel protocol, the DOTS data channel protocol is not expected to deal
with attack conditions. As such, an issue that might be encountered in some deployments is
when ﬁlters installed by means of the DOTS data channel protocol may not function as expected
during DDoS attacks or, worse, exacerbate an ongoing DDoS attack. In such conditions, the DOTS
data channel protocol cannot be used to change these ﬁlters, which may complicate DDoS
mitigation operations

[INTEROP]

.

A typical case is a conﬂict between ﬁltering rules installed by a DOTS client and the mitigation
actions of a DDoS mitigator. Consider, for instance, a DOTS client that conﬁgures during 'idle'
time (i.e., no mitigation is active) some ﬁltering rules using the DOTS data channel protocol to
permit traﬃc from accept-listed sources. However, during a volumetric DDoS attack, the DDoS
mitigator identiﬁes the source addresses/preﬁxes in the accept-listed ﬁltering rules are attacking
the target. For example, an attacker can spoof the IP addresses of accept-listed sources to
generate attack traﬃc, or the attacker can compromise the accept-listed sources and program
them to launch a DDoS attack.

Nishizuka, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9133

DOTS Signal Filter Control

September 2021

[RFC9132]
 is designed so that the DDoS server notiﬁes the above conﬂict to the DOTS client (that
is, the 'conﬂict-cause' parameter is set to 2 (conﬂict-with-acceptlist)), but the DOTS client may not
be able to withdraw the accept-list rules during the attack period due to the high-volume attack
traﬃc saturating the inbound link to the DOTS client domain. In other words, the DOTS client
cannot use the DOTS data channel protocol to withdraw the accept-list ﬁlters when a DDoS attack
is in progress.

1.2.  Controlling Filtering Rules Using DOTS Signal Channel

This speciﬁcation addresses the problems discussed in Section 1.1 by adding a capability for
managing ﬁltering rules using the DOTS signal channel protocol, which enables a DOTS client to
request the activation (or deactivation) of ﬁltering rules during a DDoS attack. Note that creating
these ﬁltering rules is still the responsibility of the DOTS data channel

.
[RFC8783]

The DOTS signal channel protocol is designed to enable a DOTS client to contact a DOTS server
for help even under severe network congestion conditions. Therefore, extending the DOTS signal
channel protocol to manage the ﬁltering rules during an attack will enhance the protection
capability oﬀered by DOTS protocols.

Note: The experiment at the IETF 103 hackathon
the inbound link is saturated by DDoS attack traﬃc, the DOTS client can signal
mitigation requests using the DOTS signal channel over the saturated link.

[INTEROP]

 showed that even when

Conﬂicts that are induced by ﬁlters installed by other DOTS clients of the same domain are not
discussed in this speciﬁcation.

An augmentation to the DOTS signal channel YANG module is deﬁned in Section 3.2.2.

Sample examples are provided in Section 4, in particular:

•

Section 4.1 illustrates how the ﬁlter control extension is used when conﬂicts with Access
Control Lists (ACLs) are detected and reported by a DOTS server.

•

Section 4.2 shows how a DOTS client can instruct a DOTS server to safely forward some
speciﬁc traﬃc in 'attack' time.

•

Section 4.3 shows how a DOTS client can react if the DDoS traﬃc is still being forwarded to
the DOTS client domain even if mitigation requests were sent to a DOTS server.

The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) encoding of YANG-modeled data
illustrate the examples.

[RFC7951]

 is used to

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

Nishizuka, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9133

DOTS Signal Filter Control

September 2021

The reader should be familiar with the terms deﬁned in

[RFC8612]
.

The terminology for describing YANG modules is deﬁned in
symbols in the tree diagram is deﬁned in

[RFC8340]

 and

.
[RFC8791]

[RFC7950]

. The meaning of the

3.  Controlling Filtering Rules of a DOTS Client

3.1.  Binding DOTS Data and Signal Channels

The ﬁltering rules eventually managed using the DOTS signal channel protocol are created a
priori by the same DOTS client using the DOTS data channel protocol. Managing conﬂicts with
ﬁlters installed by other DOTS clients of the same domain is out of scope.

Section 4.4.1 of [RFC9132]

As discussed in
DOTS signal and data channels. This requirement is meant to facilitate binding DOTS channels
used by the same DOTS client.

, a DOTS client must use the same 'cuid' for both the

The DOTS signal and data channels from a DOTS client may or may not use the same DOTS
server. Nevertheless, the scope of the mitigation request, alias, and ﬁltering rules are not
restricted to the DOTS server but to the DOTS server domain. To that aim, DOTS servers within a
domain are assumed to have a mechanism to coordinate the mitigation requests, aliases, and
ﬁltering rules to coordinate their decisions for better mitigation operation eﬃciency. The exact
details about such a mechanism is out of the scope of this document.

A ﬁltering rule controlled by the DOTS signal channel is identiﬁed by its ACL name (
[RFC8783]
the same name may be used by distinct DOTS clients.

Section 4.3 of
). Note that an ACL name unambiguously identiﬁes an ACL bound to a DOTS client, but

The activation or deactivation of an ACL by the DOTS signal channel overrides the 'activation-
type' (deﬁned in
DOTS data channel protocol.

) a priori conveyed with the ﬁltering rules using the

Section 4.3 of [RFC8783]

Once the attack is mitigated, the DOTS client may use the data channel to control the 'activation-
type' (e.g., revert to a default value) of some of the ﬁltering rules controlled by the DOTS signal
channel or delete some of these ﬁlters. This behavior is deployment speciﬁc.

3.2.  DOTS Signal Channel Extension

3.2.1.  Parameters and Behaviors

This speciﬁcation extends the mitigation request deﬁned in
the intended control of conﬁgured ﬁltering rules. Concretely, the DOTS client conveys the 'acl-list'
attribute with the following sub-attributes in the Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR)
body of a mitigation request (see the YANG structure in Section 3.2.2.1):

Section 4.4.1 of [RFC9132]

 to convey

acl-name:

A name of an access list deﬁned using the DOTS data channel (

Section 4.3 of

[RFC8783]

) that is associated with the DOTS client.

Nishizuka, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9133

DOTS Signal Filter Control

September 2021

As a reminder, an ACL is an ordered list of Access Control Entries (ACEs). Each ACE has a list
[RFC8783]
of match criteria and a list of actions
. The list of conﬁgured ACLs can be retrieved
using the DOTS data channel during 'idle' time.

This is a mandatory attribute when 'acl-list' is included.

activation-type:

An attribute indicating the activation type of an ACL overriding the existing

'activation-type' installed by the DOTS client using the DOTS data channel.

As a reminder, this attribute can be set to 'deactivate', 'immediate', or 'activate-when-
mitigating' as deﬁned in

[RFC8783]

.

Note that both 'immediate' and 'activate-when-mitigating' have an immediate eﬀect when a
mitigation request is being processed by the DOTS server.

This is an optional attribute.

By default, ACL-related operations are achieved using the DOTS data channel protocol when no
attack is ongoing. DOTS clients
 use the ﬁltering control over the DOTS signal channel
in 'idle' time; such requests

 be discarded by DOTS servers with 4.00 (Bad Request).

MUST NOT

MUST

During an attack time, DOTS clients may include 'acl-list', 'acl-name', and 'activation-type'
attributes in a mitigation request. This request may be the initial mitigation request for a given
mitigation scope or a new one overriding an existing request. In both cases, a new 'mid'
MUST
 to include ACL attributes in an initial mitigation
used. Nevertheless, it is
request for a given mitigation scope or in a mitigation request adjusting the mitigation scope.
This recommendation is meant to avoid delaying attack mitigations because of failures to process
ACL attributes.

NOT RECOMMENDED

 be

As the attack evolves, DOTS clients can adjust the 'activation-type' of an ACL conveyed in a
mitigation request or control other ﬁlters as necessary. This can be achieved by sending a PUT
request with a new 'mid' value.

It is
RECOMMENDED
mitigation, as detailed in
4.4.2.2 of [RFC9132]

 for a DOTS client to subscribe to asynchronous notiﬁcations of the attack
Section

. If not, the polling mechanism in

Section 4.4.2.1 of [RFC9132]
 has to be followed by the DOTS client.

A DOTS client relies on the information received from the DOTS server and/or local information
to the DOTS client domain to trigger a ﬁlter control request. Only ﬁlters that are pertinent for an
ongoing mitigation should be controlled by a DOTS client using the DOTS signal channel.

'acl-list', 'acl-name', and 'activation-type' are deﬁned as comprehension-required parameters.
Following the rules in
'acl-name', or 'activation-type' attributes, it responds with a 4.00 (Bad Request) error response
code.

, if the DOTS server does not understand the 'acl-list',

Section 6 of [RFC9132]

If the DOTS server does not ﬁnd the ACL name ('acl-name') conveyed in the mitigation request for
this DOTS client, it

 respond with a 4.04 (Not Found) error response code.

MUST

Nishizuka, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9133

DOTS Signal Filter Control

September 2021

, the DOTS server

Section 4.4.1 of [RFC9132]

If the DOTS server ﬁnds the ACL name for this DOTS client, and assuming the request passed the
validation checks in
'activation-type' update. The update is immediately enforced by the DOTS server and will be
maintained as the new activation type for the ACL name even after the termination of the
mitigation request. In addition, the DOTS server
ACL similar to the update when a refresh request is received using the DOTS data channel
(
Section 7.2 of [RFC8783]
MUST
update in the diagnostic payload of the response (an example is shown in Figure 1). Else, the
Section 4.4.1 of [RFC9132]
DOTS server replies with the appropriate response code deﬁned in

). If, for some reason, the DOTS server fails to apply the ﬁlter update, it
 respond with a 5.03 (Service Unavailable) error response code and include the failed ACL

 update the lifetime of the corresponding

 proceed with the

MUST

MUST

.

{
  "ietf-dots-signal-channel:mitigation-scope": {
    "scope": [
      {
        "mid": 123,
        "ietf-dots-signal-control:acl-list": [
          {
            "acl-name": "an-accept-list",
            "activation-type": "deactivate"
          }
        ]
      }
    ]
  }
}

Figure 1: Example of a Diagnostic Payload Including Failed ACL Update

The JSON/YANG mappings for DOTS ﬁlter control attributes are shown in Table 1. As a reminder,
the mapping for 'acl-name' is deﬁned in Table 5 of

[RFC9132]

.

Parameter Name

YANG Type

CBOR
Key

CBOR Major Type &
Information

activation-type

enumeration

52

0 unsigned

ietf-dots-signal-
control:acl-list

list

acl-name

leafref

53

23

4 array

3 text string

Table 1: JSON/YANG Mapping to CBOR for Filter Control Attributes

JSON
Type

String

Array

String

If the DOTS client receives a 5.03 (Service Unavailable) with a diagnostic payload indicating a
failed ACL update as a response to an initial mitigation or a mitigation with adjusted scope, the
DOTS client
failed mitigation request but without including the ACL attributes. After the expiry of Max-Age

 immediately send a new request that repeats all the parameters as sent in the

MUST

Nishizuka, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9133

DOTS Signal Filter Control

September 2021

returned in the 5.03 (Service Unavailable) response, the DOTS client retries with a new
mitigation request (i.e., a new 'mid') that repeats all the parameters as sent in the failed
mitigation request (i.e., the one including the ACL attributes).

If, during an active mitigation, the 'activation-type' is changed at the DOTS server (e.g., as a result
of an external action) for an ACL bound to a DOTS client, the DOTS server notiﬁes that DOTS
client of the change by including the corresponding ACL parameters in an asynchronous
notiﬁcation (the DOTS client is observing the active mitigation) or in a response to a polling
request (

Section 4.4.2.2 of [RFC9132]

).

If the DOTS signal and data channels of a DOTS client are not established with the same DOTS
server of a DOTS server domain, the above request processing operations are undertaken using
the coordination mechanism discussed in Section 3.1.

This speciﬁcation does not require any modiﬁcation to the eﬃcacy update and the withdrawal
procedures deﬁned in
request used to send an eﬃcacy update and DELETE requests.

. In particular, ACL-related clauses are not included in a PUT

[RFC9132]

3.2.2.  DOTS Signal Filtering Control Module

3.2.2.1.  Tree Structure

This document augments the "ietf-dots-signal-channel" YANG module deﬁned in
managing ﬁltering rules.

[RFC9132]

 for

This document deﬁnes the YANG module "ietf-dots-signal-control", which has the following tree
structure:

module: ietf-dots-signal-control
 augment-structure /dots-signal:dots-signal/dots-signal:message-type
                   /dots-signal:mitigation-scope/dots-signal:scope:
   +-- acl-list* [acl-name]
      +-- acl-name
      |       -> /data-channel:dots-data/dots-client/acls/acl/name
      +-- activation-type?   data-channel:activation-type

3.2.2.2.  YANG Module

This YANG module is not intended to be used via NETCONF/RESTCONF for DOTS server
management purposes; such a module is out of the scope of this document. It serves only to
provide a data model and encoding, but not a management data model.

Nishizuka, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9133

DOTS Signal Filter Control

September 2021

This module uses types deﬁned in

[RFC8783]
.

Nishizuka, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9133

DOTS Signal Filter Control

September 2021

<CODE BEGINS> file "ietf-dots-signal-control@2021-09-02.yang"

module ietf-dots-signal-control {
  yang-version 1.1;
  namespace "urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-dots-signal-control";
  prefix dots-control;

  import ietf-dots-signal-channel {
    prefix dots-signal;
    reference
      "RFC 9132: Distributed Denial-of-Service Open Threat
                 Signaling (DOTS) Signal Channel Specification";
  }

  import ietf-yang-structure-ext {
    prefix sx;
    reference
      "RFC 8791: YANG Data Structure Extensions";
  }

  import ietf-dots-data-channel {
    prefix data-channel;
    reference
      "RFC 8783: Distributed Denial-of-Service Open Threat
                 Signaling (DOTS) Data Channel Specification";
  }

  organization
    "IETF DDoS Open Threat Signaling (DOTS) Working Group";
  contact
    "WG Web:   <https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/dots/>
     WG List:  <mailto:dots@ietf.org>

     Author:  Kaname Nishizuka
              <mailto:kaname@nttv6.jp>

     Author:  Mohamed Boucadair
              <mailto:mohamed.boucadair@orange.com>

     Author:  Tirumaleswar Reddy.K
              <mailto:kondtir@gmail.com>

     Author:  Takahiko Nagata
              <mailto:nagata@lepidum.co.jp>";

  description
    "This module contains YANG definition for the signaling
     messages exchanged between a DOTS client and a DOTS server
     to control, by means of the DOTS signal channel, filtering
     rules configured using the DOTS data channel.

     Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identified as
     authors of the code.  All rights reserved.

     Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or
     without modification, is permitted pursuant to, and subject

Nishizuka, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9133

DOTS Signal Filter Control

September 2021

     to the license terms contained in, the Simplified BSD License
     set forth in Section 4.c of the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions
     Relating to IETF Documents
     (https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info).

     This version of this YANG module is part of RFC 9133; see
     the RFC itself for full legal notices.";

  revision 2021-09-02 {
    description
      "Initial revision.";
    reference
      "RFC 9133: Controlling Filtering Rules Using Distributed
                 Denial-of-Service Open Threat Signaling (DOTS)
                 Signal Channel";
  }

  sx:augment-structure "/dots-signal:dots-signal"
                     + "/dots-signal:message-type"
                     + "/dots-signal:mitigation-scope"
                     + "/dots-signal:scope" {

    description
      "ACL name and activation type.";

    list acl-list {
      key "acl-name";
      description
        "List of ACLs as defined using the DOTS data
         channel. ACLs bound to a DOTS client are uniquely
         identified by a name.";
      leaf acl-name {
        type leafref {
          path "/data-channel:dots-data/data-channel:dots-client"
             + "/data-channel:acls/data-channel:acl"
             + "/data-channel:name";
        }
        description
          "Reference to the ACL name bound to a DOTS client.";
      }
      leaf activation-type {
        type data-channel:activation-type;
        default "activate-when-mitigating";
        description
          "Sets the activation type of an ACL.";
      }
    }
  }
}

<CODE ENDS>

Nishizuka, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9133

DOTS Signal Filter Control

September 2021

4.  Some Examples

This section provides some examples to illustrate the behavior speciﬁed in Section 3.2.1. These
examples are provided for illustration purposes; they should not be considered as deployment
recommendations.

4.1.  Conﬂict Handling

Let's consider a DOTS client that contacts its DOTS server during 'idle' time to install an accept-list
allowing for UDP traﬃc issued from 2001:db8:1234::/48 with a destination port number 443 to be
forwarded to 2001:db8:6401::2/127. It does so by sending, for example, a PUT request as shown in
Figure 2.

Nishizuka, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9133

DOTS Signal Filter Control

September 2021

PUT /restconf/data/ietf-dots-data-channel:dots-data\
    /dots-client=paL8p4Zqo4SLv64TLPXrxA/acls\
    /acl=an-accept-list HTTP/1.1
Host: example.com
Content-Type: application/yang-data+json

{
  "ietf-dots-data-channel:acls": {
    "acl": [
      {
        "name": "an-accept-list",
        "type": "ipv6-acl-type",
        "activation-type": "activate-when-mitigating",
        "aces": {
          "ace": [
            {
              "name": "test-ace-ipv6-udp",
              "matches": {
                "ipv6": {
                  "destination-ipv6-network": "2001:db8:6401::2/127",
                  "source-ipv6-network": "2001:db8:1234::/48"
                },
                "udp": {
                  "destination-port-range-or-operator": {
                    "operator": "eq",
                    "port": 443
                  }
                }
              },
              "actions": {
                "forwarding": "accept"
              }
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}

Figure 2: DOTS Data Channel Request to Create a Filter

Sometime later, consider that a DDoS attack is detected by the DOTS client on
2001:db8:6401::2/127. Consequently, the DOTS client sends a mitigation request to its DOTS server
as shown in Figure 3.

Nishizuka, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9133

DOTS Signal Filter Control

September 2021

Header: PUT (Code=0.03)
Uri-Path: ".well-known"
Uri-Path: "dots"
Uri-Path: "mitigate"
Uri-Path: "cuid=paL8p4Zqo4SLv64TLPXrxA"
Uri-Path: "mid=123"
Content-Format: "application/dots+cbor"

{
  "ietf-dots-signal-channel:mitigation-scope": {
    "scope": [
      {
        "target-prefix": [
          "2001:db8:6401::2/127"
        ],
        "target-protocol": [
          17
        ],
        "lifetime": 3600
      }
    ]
  }
}

Figure 3: DOTS Signal Channel Mitigation Request

The DOTS server immediately accepts the request by replying with 2.01 (Created) (Figure 4
depicts the message body of the response).

{
  "ietf-dots-signal-channel:mitigation-scope": {
    "scope": [
      {
        "mid": 123,
        "lifetime": 3600
      }
    ]
  }
}

Figure 4: Status Response (Message Body)

Assuming the DOTS client subscribed to asynchronous notiﬁcations, when the DOTS server
concludes that some of the attack sources belong to 2001:db8:1234::/48, it sends a notiﬁcation
message with 'status' code set to 1 (attack-mitigation-in-progress) and 'conﬂict-cause' set to 2
(conﬂict-with-acceptlist) to the DOTS client to indicate that this mitigation request is in progress,
but a conﬂict is detected.

Upon receipt of the notiﬁcation message from the DOTS server, the DOTS client sends a PUT
request to deactivate the "an-accept-list" ACL as shown in Figure 5.

Nishizuka, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9133

DOTS Signal Filter Control

September 2021

The DOTS client can also decide to send a PUT request to deactivate the "an-accept-list" ACL if
suspect traﬃc is received from an accept-listed source (2001:db8:1234::/48). The structure of that
PUT is the same as the one shown in Figure 5.

Header: PUT (Code=0.03)
Uri-Path: ".well-known"
Uri-Path: "dots"
Uri-Path: "mitigate"
Uri-Path: "cuid=paL8p4Zqo4SLv64TLPXrxA"
Uri-Path: "mid=124"
Content-Format: "application/dots+cbor"

{
  "ietf-dots-signal-channel:mitigation-scope": {
    "scope": [
      {
        "target-prefix": [
          "2001:db8:6401::2/127"
        ],
        "target-protocol": [
          17
        ],
        "ietf-dots-signal-control:acl-list": [
          {
            "acl-name": "an-accept-list",
            "activation-type": "deactivate"
          }
        ],
        "lifetime": 3600
      }
    ]
  }
}

Figure 5: PUT for Deactivating a Conﬂicting Filter

Then, the DOTS server deactivates the "an-accept-list" ACL and replies with a 2.04 (Changed)
response to the DOTS client to conﬁrm the successful operation. The message body is similar to
the one depicted in Figure 4.

Once the attack is mitigated, the DOTS client may use the data channel to retrieve its ACLs
maintained by the DOTS server. As shown in Figure 6, the activation type is set to 'deactivate' as
set by the DOTS signal channel (Figure 5) instead of the type initially set using the DOTS data
channel (Figure 2).

Nishizuka, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9133

DOTS Signal Filter Control

September 2021

{
  "ietf-dots-data-channel:acls": {
    "acl": [
      {
        "name": "an-accept-list",
        "type": "ipv6-acl-type",
        "activation-type": "deactivate",
        "pending-lifetime": 10021,
        "aces": {
          "ace": [
            {
              "name": "test-ace-ipv6-udp",
              "matches": {
                "ipv6": {
                  "destination-ipv6-network": "2001:db8:6401::2/127",
                  "source-ipv6-network": "2001:db8:1234::/48"
                },
                "udp": {
                  "destination-port-range-or-operator": {
                    "operator": "eq",
                    "port": 443
                  }
                }
              },
              "actions": {
                "forwarding": "accept"
              }
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}

Figure 6: DOTS Data Channel GET Response after Mitigation (Message Body)

4.2.  On-Demand Activation of an Accept-List Filter

Let's consider a DOTS client that contacts its DOTS server during 'idle' time to install an accept-list
allowing for UDP traﬃc issued from 2001:db8:1234::/48 to be forwarded to 2001:db8:6401::2/127.
It does so by sending, for example, a PUT request shown in Figure 7. The DOTS server installs this
ﬁlter with a "deactivated" state.

Nishizuka, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9133

DOTS Signal Filter Control

September 2021

PUT /restconf/data/ietf-dots-data-channel:dots-data\
    /dots-client=ioiuLoZqo4SLv64TLPXrxA/acls\
    /acl=my-accept-list HTTP/1.1
Host: example.com
Content-Type: application/yang-data+json

{
  "ietf-dots-data-channel:acls": {
    "acl": [
      {
        "name": "my-accept-list",
        "type": "ipv6-acl-type",
        "activation-type": "deactivate",
        "aces": {
          "ace": [
            {
              "name": "an-ace",
              "matches": {
                "ipv6": {
                  "destination-ipv6-network": "2001:db8:6401::2/127",
                  "source-ipv6-network": "2001:db8:1234::/48",
                  "protocol": 17
                }
              },
              "actions": {
                "forwarding": "accept"
              }
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}

Figure 7: DOTS Data Channel Request to Create an Accept-List Filter

Sometime later, consider that a UDP DDoS attack is detected by the DOTS client on
2001:db8:6401::2/127 but the DOTS client wants to let the traﬃc from 2001:db8:1234::/48 be
accept-listed to the DOTS client domain. Consequently, the DOTS client sends a mitigation request
to its DOTS server as shown in Figure 8.

Nishizuka, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9133

DOTS Signal Filter Control

September 2021

Header: PUT (Code=0.03)
Uri-Path: ".well-known"
Uri-Path: "dots"
Uri-Path: "mitigate"
Uri-Path: "cuid=ioiuLoZqo4SLv64TLPXrxA"
Uri-Path: "mid=4879"
Content-Format: "application/dots+cbor"

{
  "ietf-dots-signal-channel:mitigation-scope": {
    "scope": [
      {
        "target-prefix": [
          "2001:db8:6401::2/127"
        ],
        "target-protocol": [
          17
        ],
        "ietf-dots-signal-control:acl-list": [
          {
            "acl-name": "my-accept-list",
            "activation-type": "immediate"
          }
        ],
        "lifetime": 3600
      }
    ]
  }
}

Figure 8: DOTS Signal Channel Mitigation Request with a Filter Control

The DOTS server activates the "my-accept-list" ACL and replies with a 2.01 (Created) response to
the DOTS client to conﬁrm the successful operation.

4.3.  DOTS Servers/Mitigators Lacking Capacity

This section describes a scenario in which a DOTS client activates a drop-list or a rate-limit ﬁlter
during an attack.

Consider a DOTS client that contacts its DOTS server during 'idle' time to install an accept-list that
rate-limits all (or a part thereof) traﬃc to be forwarded to 2001:db8:123::/48 as a last resort
countermeasure whenever required. Installing the accept-list can be done by sending, for
example, the PUT request shown in Figure 9. The DOTS server installs this ﬁlter with a
"deactivated" state.

Nishizuka, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9133

DOTS Signal Filter Control

September 2021

PUT /restconf/data/ietf-dots-data-channel:dots-data\
    /dots-client=OopPisZqo4SLv64TLPXrxA/acls\
    /acl=my-ratelimit-list HTTP/1.1
Host: example.com
Content-Type: application/yang-data+json

{
  "ietf-dots-data-channel:acls": {
    "acl": [
      {
        "name": "my-ratelimit-list",
        "type": "ipv6-acl-type",
        "activation-type": "deactivate",
        "aces": {
          "ace": [
            {
              "name": "my-ace",
              "matches": {
                "ipv6": {
                  "destination-ipv6-network": "2001:db8:123::/48"
                }
              },
              "actions": {
                "forwarding": "accept",
                "rate-limit": "20000.00"
              }
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}

Figure 9: DOTS Data Channel Request to Create a Rate-Limit Filter

Consider now that a DDoS attack is detected by the DOTS client on 2001:db8:123::/48.
Consequently, the DOTS client sends a mitigation request to its DOTS server (Figure 10).

Nishizuka, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9133

DOTS Signal Filter Control

September 2021

Header: PUT (Code=0.03)
Uri-Path: ".well-known"
Uri-Path: "dots"
Uri-Path: "mitigate"
Uri-Path: "cuid=OopPisZqo4SLv64TLPXrxA"
Uri-Path: "mid=85"
Content-Format: "application/dots+cbor"

{
  "ietf-dots-signal-channel:mitigation-scope": {
    "scope": [
      {
        "target-prefix": [
          "2001:db8:123::/48"
        ],
        "lifetime": 3600
      }
    ]
  }
}

Figure 10: DOTS Signal Channel Mitigation Request

For some reason (e.g., the DOTS server, or the mitigator, is lacking a capability or capacity), the
DOTS client is still receiving attack traﬃc, which saturates available links. To soften the problem,
the DOTS client decides to activate the ﬁlter that rate-limits the traﬃc destined to the DOTS client
domain. To that aim, the DOTS client sends the mitigation request to its DOTS server shown in
Figure 11.

Nishizuka, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9133

DOTS Signal Filter Control

September 2021

Header: PUT (Code=0.03)
Uri-Path: ".well-known"
Uri-Path: "dots"
Uri-Path: "mitigate"
Uri-Path: "cuid=OopPisZqo4SLv64TLPXrxA"
Uri-Path: "mid=86"
Content-Format: "application/dots+cbor"

{
  "ietf-dots-signal-channel:mitigation-scope": {
    "scope": [
      {
        "target-prefix": [
          "2001:db8:123::/48"
        ],
        "ietf-dots-signal-control:acl-list": [
          {
            "acl-name": "my-ratelimit-list",
            "activation-type": "immediate"
          }
        ],
        "lifetime": 3600
      }
    ]
  }
}

Figure 11: DOTS Signal Channel Mitigation Request to Activate a Rate-Limit Filter

Then, the DOTS server activates the "my-ratelimit-list" ACL and replies with a 2.04 (Changed)
response to the DOTS client to conﬁrm the successful operation.

As the attack mitigation evolves, the DOTS client may decide to deactivate the rate-limit policy
(e.g., upon receipt of a notiﬁcation status change from 'attack-exceeded-capability' to 'attack-
mitigation-in-progress'). Based on the mitigation status conveyed by the DOTS server, the DOTS
client can deactivate the rate-limit action. It does so by sending the request shown in Figure 12.

Nishizuka, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9133

DOTS Signal Filter Control

September 2021

Header: PUT (Code=0.03)
Uri-Path: ".well-known"
Uri-Path: "dots"
Uri-Path: "mitigate"
Uri-Path: "cuid=OopPisZqo4SLv64TLPXrxA"
Uri-Path: "mid=87"
Content-Format: "application/dots+cbor"

{
  "ietf-dots-signal-channel:mitigation-scope": {
    "scope": [
      {
        "target-prefix": [
          "2001:db8:123::/48"
        ],
        "ietf-dots-signal-control:acl-list": [
          {
            "acl-name": "my-ratelimit-list",
            "activation-type": "deactivate"
          }
        ],
        "lifetime": 3600
      }
    ]
  }
}

Figure 12: DOTS Signal Channel Mitigation Request to Deactivate a Rate-Limit Filter

5.  IANA Considerations

5.1.  DOTS Signal Channel CBOR Key Values Subregistry

Per this speciﬁcation, IANA has registered the following parameters in the "DOTS Signal Channel
CBOR Key Values" subregistry within the "Distributed Denial-of-Service Open Threat Signaling
(DOTS) Signal Channel" registry

[Key-Map]

.

Parameter Name

CBOR Key
Value

CBOR
Major Type

Change
Controller

Speciﬁcation
Document(s)

activation-type

ietf-dots-signal-
control:acl-list

Table 2

52

53

0

4

IESG

IESG

RFC 9133

RFC 9133

5.2.  A New YANG Module

IANA has registered the following URI in the "ns" subregistry within the "IETF XML Registry"
[RFC3688]
:

Nishizuka, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9133

DOTS Signal Filter Control

September 2021

urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-dots-signal-control

URI:
Registrant Contact:
XML:

The IESG.

N/A; the requested URI is an XML namespace.

IANA has registered the following YANG module in the "YANG Module Names" subregistry
[RFC6020]

 within the "YANG Parameters" registry.

urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-dots-signal-control

ietf-dots-signal-control

Name:
Namespace:
Maintained by IANA:
dots-control
Preﬁx:
Reference:

RFC 9133

N

6.  Security Considerations

The security considerations for the DOTS signal channel protocol are discussed in
[RFC9132]
[RFC8783]
signal channel extension deﬁned in this document.

, while those for the DOTS data channel protocol are discussed in
. The following discusses the security considerations that are speciﬁc to the DOTS

Section 10 of

Section 11 of

This speciﬁcation does not allow the creation of new ﬁltering rules, which is the responsibility of
the DOTS data channel. DOTS client domains should be adequately prepared prior to an attack,
e.g., by creating ﬁlters that will be activated on demand when an attack is detected.

A DOTS client is entitled to access only the resources it creates. In particular, a DOTS client can
not tweak ﬁltering rules created by other DOTS clients of the same DOTS client domain. As a
reminder, DOTS servers must associate ﬁltering rules with the DOTS client that created these
resources. Failure to ensure such association by a DOTS server will have severe impact on DOTS
client domains.

A compromised DOTS client can use the ﬁltering control capability to exacerbate an ongoing
attack. Likewise, such a compromised DOTS client may abstain from reacting to an ACL conﬂict
notiﬁcation received from the DOTS server during attacks. These are not new attack vectors, but
variations of threats discussed in
monitor and audit DOTS agents to detect misbehaviors and deter misuses.

. DOTS operators should carefully

[RFC8783]

[RFC9132]

 and

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Nishizuka, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9133

DOTS Signal Filter Control

September 2021

[RFC3688]

[RFC6020]

[RFC7950]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8783]

[RFC8791]

[RFC9132]

Mealling, M. "The IETF XML Registry" BCP 81 RFC 3688 DOI 10.17487/RFC3688
,
January 2004,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3688>

,
.

,

,

,

Bjorklund, M., Ed. "YANG - A Data Modeling Language for the Network
Conﬁguration Protocol (NETCONF)" RFC 6020 DOI 10.17487/RFC6020
,
2010,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6020>

,

.

, October

Bjorklund, M., Ed. "The YANG 1.1 Data Modeling Language" RFC 7950 DOI
,
10.17487/RFC7950
.
, August 2016,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7950>

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

,
Boucadair, M., Ed.
Threat Signaling (DOTS) Data Channel Speciﬁcation" RFC 8783 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8783

T. Reddy.K, Ed. "Distributed Denial-of-Service Open

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8783>

, May 2020,

,
.

 and

,

,
, and
Bierman, A. Björklund, M.
RFC 8791 DOI 10.17487/RFC8791
rfc8791>

,
.

K. Watsen "YANG Data Structure Extensions"
, June 2020,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

Boucadair, M., Ed. Shallow, J.
Open Threat Signaling (DOTS) Signal Channel Speciﬁcation" RFC 9132 DOI
10.17487/RFC9132

T. Reddy.K "Distributed Denial-of-Service

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9132>

, September 2021,

, and

,

,

,

,

.

7.2.  Informative References

[INTEROP]

[Key-Map]

[RFC7951]

[RFC8340]

[RFC8612]

[RFC8811]

,

Nishizuka, K. Shallow, J.
Hackathon"
slides-103-dots-interop-report-from-ietf-103-hackathon-00>

, and
, November 2018,

L. Xia "DOTS Interop test report, IETF 103
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/meeting/103/materials/

,

.

,

IANA "Distributed Denial-of-Service Open Threat Signaling (DOTS) Signal
Channel" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/dots>

,

.

Lhotka, L. "JSON Encoding of Data Modeled with YANG" RFC 7951 DOI
10.17487/RFC7951

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7951>

, August 2016,

,

,

,

.

Bjorklund, M.
 and
10.17487/RFC8340

L. Berger, Ed. "YANG Tree Diagrams" BCP 215 RFC 8340 DOI
, March 2018,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8340>

,

,

.

,

Mortensen, A. Reddy, T.
Requirements" RFC 8612 DOI 10.17487/RFC8612
editor.org/info/rfc8612>
.

, and
,

,
,

R. Moskowitz "DDoS Open Threat Signaling (DOTS)
, May 2019,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Mortensen, A., Ed. Reddy.K, T., Ed. Andreasen, F. Teague, N.
"DDoS Open Threat Signaling (DOTS) Architecture" RFC 8811 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8811

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8811>

, August 2020,

, and
,

R. Compton

,

,

,

,

.

,

Nishizuka, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9133

DOTS Signal Filter Control

September 2021

Acknowledgements

,
Many thanks to
Tim Chown Murray Kucherawy Roman Danyliw Erik Kline

,

,

,

,

,

,

Wei Pan Xia Liang Jon Shallow Dan Wing Christer Holmberg Shawn Emery

,
 for the comments.

,

, and

Éric Vyncke

Thanks to

Benjamin Kaduk

 for the AD review.

Authors' Addresses

Kaname Nishizuka
NTT Communications
GranPark 16F 3-4-1 Shibaura, Minato-ku Tokyo
108-8118
Japan
Email:

 kaname@nttv6.jp

,

Mohamed Boucadair
Orange
35000 Rennes
France
Email:

 mohamed.boucadair@orange.com

Tirumaleswar Reddy.K
Akamai
Embassy Golf Link Business Park
Bangalore 560071
Karnataka
India
Email:

 kondtir@gmail.com

Takahiko Nagata
Lepidum
Japan
Email:

 nagata@lepidum.co.jp

Nishizuka, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

