Stream:
RFC:
Obsoletes:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9708
8708
Standards Track
January 2025
2070-1721
R. Housley
Vigil Security

RFC 9708
Use of the HSS/LMS Hash-Based Signature Algorithm
in the Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS)

Abstract

This document specifies the conventions for using the Hierarchical Signature System (HSS) /
Leighton-Micali Signature (LMS) hash-based signature algorithm with the Cryptographic Message
Syntax (CMS). In addition, the algorithm identifier and public key syntax are provided. The HSS/
LMS algorithm is one form of hash-based digital signature; it is described in RFC 8554. This
document obsoletes RFC 8708.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9708
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Housley

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9708

Use of the HSS/LMS Hash-Based Signature

January 2025

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  ASN.1

1.2.  Terminology

1.3.  Motivation

1.4.  Changes Since RFC 8708

2.  HSS/LMS Hash-Based Signature Algorithm Overview

2.1.  Hierarchical Signature System (HSS)

2.2.  Leighton-Micali Signature (LMS)

2.3.  Leighton-Micali One-Time Signature (LM-OTS) Algorithm

3.  Algorithm Identifiers and Parameters

4.  HSS/LMS Public Key Identifier

5.  Signed-Data Conventions

6.  Security Considerations

7.  IANA Considerations

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

8.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  ASN.1 Module

Acknowledgements

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

2

3

3

3

3

4

4

5

6

6

7

8

9

9

9

9

10

12

13

13

This document specifies the conventions for using the Hierarchical Signature System (HSS) /
Leighton-Micali Signature (LMS) hash-based signature algorithm with the Cryptographic Message
Syntax (CMS)
signature that is a variant of the Merkle Tree Signature (MTS) scheme. The HSS is built on top of

 signed-data content type. The LMS system provides a one-time digital

[CMS]

Housley

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9708

Use of the HSS/LMS Hash-Based Signature

January 2025

the LMS system to efficiently scale for a larger number of signatures. The HSS/LMS algorithm is
one form of hash-based digital signature, and it is described in
signature algorithm can only be used for a fixed number of signing operations with a given
private key, and the number of signing operations depends upon the size of the tree. The HSS/
LMS signature algorithm uses small public keys, and it has low computational cost; however, the
signatures are quite large. The HSS/LMS private key can be very small when the signer is willing
to perform additional computation at signing time; alternatively, the private key can consume
additional memory and provide a faster signing time. The HSS/LMS signatures are defined in
[HASHSIG]

. Currently, parameter sets are defined that use SHA-256

 and SHAKE256

. The HSS/LMS

[HASHSIG]

[SHA3]
.

[SHS]

1.1.  ASN.1

CMS values are generated using ASN.1
Distinguished Encoding Rules (DER)

[ASN1-E]
.

[ASN1-B]

, using the Basic Encoding Rules (BER) and the

1.2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

1.3.  Motivation

Advances in cryptanalysis
[NAS2019]
is a need to prepare for a day when cryptosystems such as RSA and DSA that use discrete
logarithms and factoring cannot be depended upon.

 pose a future threat to widely deployed digital signature algorithms. As a result, there

 and progress in the development of quantum computers

[BH2013]

If cryptographically relevant quantum computers (CRQCs) are ever built, they will be able to
break many of the public key cryptosystems currently in use. A post-quantum cryptosystem
[PQC]
 is a system that is secure against quantum computers that have more than a trivial
number of quantum bits (qubits). It is open to conjecture when it will be feasible to build such
computers; however, RSA, DSA, Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm (ECDSA), and Edwards-
curve Digital Signature Algorithm (EdDSA) are all vulnerable if CRQCs are ever developed.

Since the HSS/LMS signature algorithm does not depend on the difficulty of discrete logarithms
or factoring, but on a second-preimage-resistant cryptographic hash function, the HSS/LMS
signature algorithm is considered to be post-quantum secure. One use of post-quantum-secure
signatures is the protection of software updates, perhaps using the format described in
[FWPROT]

, to enable deployment of software that implements new cryptosystems.

1.4.  Changes Since RFC 8708

At the time RFC 8708 was published, there were no plans to put an HSS/LMS public key in a
certificate. The expectation was that the HSS/LMS public key would be distributed by some other
means. Today, there are plans to put an HSS/LMS public key in a certificate

[X.509-S-HBS]

. The

Housley

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9708

Use of the HSS/LMS Hash-Based Signature

January 2025

KEY field of the pk-HSS-LMS-HashSig definition in the ASN.1 module does not come into play
when using HSS/LMS signatures in the CMS; however, it needs to be consistent with the
conventions for carrying an HSS/LMS public key in a certificate. The pk-HSS-LMS-HashSig
definition is updated to reflect no ASN.1 wrapping for the public key. These changes resolve
[Err7960]

[Err7963]
.

 and

Additional HSS/LMS tree sizes have been defined. The list in Section 2.2 was expanded to include
the recently defined ones.

Additional LM-OTS Signatures have been defined. The list in Section 2.3 was expanded to include
the recently defined ones.

More detail has been provided in Section 4 regarding allowed values in the X.509 certificate key
usage extension for an HSS/LMS public key.

2.  HSS/LMS Hash-Based Signature Algorithm Overview

The Merkle Tree Signature (MTS) scheme is a method for signing a large but fixed number of
messages. An MTS system depends on a one-time signature method and a collision-resistant hash
function.

This specification makes use of the hash-based algorithm specified in
[LM]
Leighton and Micali adaptation
signature system

[M1979] [M1987] [M1989a] [M1989b]
.

 of the original Lamport-Diffie-Winternitz-Merkle one-time

[HASHSIG]

, which is the

As implied by the name, the hash-based signature algorithm depends on a collision-resistant
hash function. The hash-based signature algorithm specified in
one-way hash function
registration of additional one-way hash functions in the future.

, but it establishes an IANA registry

 to permit the

[IANA-LMS]

[HASHSIG]

[SHS]

 uses only the SHA-256

2.1.  Hierarchical Signature System (HSS)

The MTS system specified in
Signature System (HSS) allows subordinate trees to be generated when needed by the signer.
Otherwise, generation of the entire tree might take weeks or longer.

 uses a hierarchy of trees. The N-time Hierarchical

[HASHSIG]

[HASHSIG]

An HSS signature as specified in
followed by that number of signed public keys, followed by the LMS signature as described in
Section 2.2. The public key for the topmost LMS tree is the public key of the HSS system. The LMS
private key in the parent tree signs the LMS public key in the child tree, and the LMS private key
in the bottom-most tree signs the actual message. The signature over the public key and the
signature over the actual message are LMS signatures as described in Section 2.2.

 carries the number of signed public keys (Nspk),

The elements of the HSS signature value for a standalone tree (a top tree with no children) can be
summarized as:

Housley

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9708

Use of the HSS/LMS Hash-Based Signature

January 2025

   u32str(0) ||
   lms_signature  /* signature of message */

where, u32str() and || are used as defined in

[HASHSIG]
.

The elements of the HSS signature value for a tree with Nspk signed public keys can be
summarized as:

   u32str(Nspk) ||
   signed_public_key[0] ||
   signed_public_key[1] ||
      ...
   signed_public_key[Nspk-2] ||
   signed_public_key[Nspk-1] ||
   lms_signature  /* signature of message */

where, as defined in
lms_signature over the public key, followed by the public key itself. Note that Nspk is the number
of levels in the hierarchy of trees minus 1.

, the signed_public_key structure contains the

Section 3.3 of [HASHSIG]

2.2.  Leighton-Micali Signature (LMS)

[HASHSIG]

 uses the Leighton-Micali Signature (LMS) system.

Each tree in the system specified in
LMS systems have two parameters. The first parameter is the height of the tree, h, which is the
number of levels in the tree minus one. The
parameter: h=5, h=10, h=15, h=20, and h=25. There are 2h leaves in the tree. The second
parameter, m, is the number of bytes output by the hash function, and it is the amount of data
[HASHSIG]
associated with each node in the tree. The
 specification supports the SHA-256 hash
function
[SHS]
, with m=32. Additional LMS Signature parameter sets have been registered at
[IANA-LMS]
.

 specification supports five values for this

[HASHSIG]

[HASHSIG]

As specified in
from the list above, the otstype to identify the Leighton-Micali One-Time Signature (LM-OTS) type
Section 5.3 of [HASHSIG]
as discussed in Section 2.3, the private key identifier (I) as described in
,
and the m-byte string associated with the root node of the tree (T[1]).

, the LMS public key consists of four elements: the lms_algorithm_type

The LMS public key can be summarized as:

   u32str(lms_algorithm_type) || u32str(otstype) || I || T[1]

[HASHSIG]

, an LMS signature consists of four elements: the number of the leaf (q)

As specified in
associated with the LM-OTS signature value, an LM-OTS signature value as described in Section
2.3, a typecode indicating the particular LMS algorithm, and an array of values that is associated
with the path through the tree from the leaf associated with the LM-OTS signature value to the
root. The array of values contains the siblings of the nodes on the path from the leaf to the root

Housley

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9708

Use of the HSS/LMS Hash-Based Signature

January 2025

but does not contain the nodes on the path itself. The array for a tree with height h will have h
values. The first value is the sibling of the leaf, the next value is the sibling of the parent of the
leaf, and so on up the path to the root.

The four elements of the LMS signature value can be summarized as:

   u32str(q) ||
   ots_signature ||
   u32str(type) ||
   path[0] || path[1] || ... || path[h-1]

2.3.  Leighton-Micali One-Time Signature (LM-OTS) Algorithm

Merkle Tree Signatures (MTS) depend on a one-time signature method, and
the use of the LM-OTS, which has five parameters:

[HASHSIG]

 specifies

n:

H:

w:

p:

ls:

The length in bytes of the hash function output.

A preimage-resistant hash function that accepts byte strings of any length and returns an n-
byte string.

The width in bits of the Winternitz coefficients.
parameter: w=1, w=2, w=4, and w=8.

[HASHSIG]

 supports four values for this

The number of n-byte string elements that make up the LM-OTS signature value.

The number of bits that are left-shifted in the final step of the checksum function, which is
defined in

Section 4.4 of [HASHSIG]

.

The values of p and ls are dependent on the choices of the parameters n and w, as described in
Appendix B of [HASHSIG]
.

[HASHSIG]
Signature parameter sets have been registered at

 specifies four LM-OTS variants (as listed in Table 1 of

[IANA-LMS]
.

[HASHSIG]

). Additional LM-OTS

Signing involves the generation of C, an n-byte random value.

The LM-OTS signature value can be summarized as the identifier of the LM-OTS variant, the
random value, and a sequence of hash values (y[0] through y[p-1]) that correspond to the
elements of the public key, as described in

Section 4.5 of [HASHSIG]
:

   u32str(otstype) || C || y[0] || ... || y[p-1]

3.  Algorithm Identifiers and Parameters

The algorithm identifier for an HSS/LMS hash-based signature is:

Housley

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9708

Use of the HSS/LMS Hash-Based Signature

January 2025

   id-alg-hss-lms-hashsig OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { iso(1)
       member-body(2) us(840) rsadsi(113549) pkcs(1) pkcs-9(9)
       smime(16) alg(3) 17 }

When this object identifier is used for an HSS/LMS signature, the AlgorithmIdentifier parameters
field
NULL).

 be absent (that is, the parameters are not present, and the parameters are not set to

MUST

In the CMS, the HSS/LMS signature value is a large OCTET STRING. The HSS/LMS signature
generation is described in Section 2 of this document. The signature format is designed for easy
parsing. The HSS, LMS, and LM-OTS components of the signature value each include a counter
and a typecode that indirectly provide all of the information that is needed to parse the value
during signature validation.

The signature value identifies the hash function used in the HSS/LMS tree.

4.  HSS/LMS Public Key Identifier

The AlgorithmIdentifier for an HSS/LMS public key uses the id-alg-hss-lms-hashsig object
identifier, and the parameters field

 be absent.

MUST

When this AlgorithmIdentifier appears in the SubjectPublicKeyInfo field of a certification
 contain at
authority (CA) X.509 certificate
least one of the following values: digitalSignature, nonRepudiation, keyCertSign, and cRLSign.
However, it

, the certificate key usage extension

 contain other values.

[RFC5280]

MUST NOT

MUST

When this AlgorithmIdentifier appears in the SubjectPublicKeyInfo field of an end-entity X.509
certificate
following: digitalSignature, nonRepudiation, or cRLSign. However, it
values.

, the certificate key usage extension

 contain at least one of the

 contain other

[RFC5280]

MUST NOT

MUST

   pk-HSS-LMS-HashSig PUBLIC-KEY ::= {
       IDENTIFIER id-alg-hss-lms-hashsig
       -- KEY no ASN.1 wrapping --
       PARAMS ARE absent
       CERT-KEY-USAGE
         { digitalSignature, nonRepudiation, keyCertSign, cRLSign } }

   HSS-LMS-HashSig-PublicKey ::= OCTET STRING

The id-alg-hss-lms-hashsig algorithm identifier is also referred to as id-alg-mts-hashsig. This
synonym is based on the terminology used in an early draft version of the document that became
[HASHSIG]
.

When the public key appears outside a certificate, it is an OCTET STRING. Like the signature
format, it is designed for easy parsing. The value is the number of levels in the public key, L,
followed by the LMS public key.

Housley

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9708

Use of the HSS/LMS Hash-Based Signature

January 2025

The HSS/LMS public key value can be described as:

      u32str(L) || lms_public_key

The public key for the topmost LMS tree is the public key of the HSS system. When L=1, the HSS
system is a single tree.

5.  Signed-Data Conventions

[CMS]

As specified in
private key. The signature is computed over different values depending on whether signed
attributes are absent or present.

, the digital signature is produced from the message digest and the signer's

When signed attributes are absent, the HSS/LMS signature is computed over the content. When
signed attributes are present, a hash is computed over the content using the same hash function
that is used in the HSS/LMS tree, then a message-digest attribute is constructed with the hash of
the content, and then the HSS/LMS signature is computed over the DER-encoded set of signed
attributes (which
summary:

 include a content-type attribute and a message-digest attribute). In

MUST

   IF (signed attributes are absent)
   THEN HSS_LMS_Sign(content)
   ELSE message-digest attribute = Hash(content);
        HSS_LMS_Sign(DER(SignedAttributes))

When using

[HASHSIG]

, the fields in the SignerInfo are used as follows:

•

MUST

digestAlgorithm
convenience, the AlgorithmIdentifier for SHA-256 from
AlgorithmIdentifier for SHAKE256 from

[RFC8692]

[PKIXASN1]

 and the

 are repeated here:

 contain the one-way hash function used in the HSS/LMS tree. For

         mda-sha256 DIGEST-ALGORITHM ::= {
             IDENTIFIER id-sha256
             PARAMS TYPE NULL ARE preferredAbsent }

         id-sha256 OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { joint-iso-itu-t(2)
             country(16) us(840) organization(1) gov(101) csor(3)
             nistAlgorithms(4) hashalgs(2) 1 }

         mda-shake256 DIGEST-ALGORITHM ::= {
             IDENTIFIER id-shake256 }

         id-shake256 OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { joint-iso-itu-t(2)
             country(16) us(840) organization(1) gov(101) csor(3)
             nistAlgorithm(4) hashAlgs(2) 12 }

Housley

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9708

Use of the HSS/LMS Hash-Based Signature

January 2025

•

signatureAlgorithm
 be absent.
MUST

MUST

 contain id-alg-hss-lms-hashsig, and the algorithm parameters field

•

signature contains the single HSS/LMS signature value resulting from the signing operation
as specified in

[HASHSIG]

.

6.  Security Considerations

MUST

 protect the private keys. Compromise of the private keys will result in the

Implementations
ability to forge signatures. Along with the private key, the implementation
 keep track of
which leaf nodes in the tree have been used. Loss of integrity of this tracking data can cause a
one-time key to be used more than once. As a result, when a private key and the tracking data
are stored on non-volatile media or in a virtual machine environment, failed writes, virtual
machine snapshotting or cloning, and other operational concerns must be considered to ensure
confidentiality and integrity.

MUST

When generating an LMS key pair, an implementation
independently of all other key pairs in the HSS tree.

MUST

 generate each key pair

An implementation
one time and ensure that it cannot be used for any other purpose.

MUST

 ensure that an LM-OTS private key is used to generate a signature only

The generation of private keys relies on random numbers. The use of inadequate pseudorandom
number generators (PRNGs) to generate these values can result in little or no security. An
attacker may find it much easier to reproduce the PRNG environment that produced the keys,
searching the resulting small set of possibilities, rather than brute-force searching the whole key
space. The generation of quality random numbers is difficult, and
guidance in this area.

 offers important

[RFC4086]

The generation of hash-based signatures also depends on random numbers. While the
consequences of an inadequate PRNG to generate these values is much less severe than in the
generation of private keys, the guidance in

 remains important.

[RFC4086]

When computing signatures, the same hash function
digest of the content and the signed attributes, if they are present.

SHOULD

 be used to compute the message

7.  IANA Considerations

In the "SMI Security for S/MIME Module Identifier (1.2.840.113549.1.9.16.0)" registry, IANA has
changed the reference for value 64 to this document.

In the "SMI Security for S/MIME Algorithms (1.2.840.113549.1.9.16.3)" registry, IANA has changed
the reference for value 17 to this document.

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

Housley

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9708

Use of the HSS/LMS Hash-Based Signature

January 2025

[ASN1-B]

[ASN1-E]

[CMS]

[HASHSIG]

[RFC2119]

[RFC5280]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8692]

[SHA3]

[SHS]

,

ITU-T "Information technology - Abstract Syntax Notation One (ASN.1):
Specification of basic notation" ITU-T Recommendation X.680 ISO/IEC
8824-1:2021

<https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.680-202102-I>

, February 2021,

,

,

.

,

ITU-T "Information technology - ASN.1 encoding rules: Specification of Basic
Encoding Rules (BER), Canonical Encoding Rules (CER) and Distinguished
Encoding Rules (DER)" ITU-T Recommendation X.690 ISO/IEC 8825-1:2021
February 2021,

<https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.690-202102-I>

,

,

,

.

Housley, R. "Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS)" STD 70 RFC 5652 DOI
10.17487/RFC5652

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5652>

, September 2009,

,

,

,

,

.

McGrew, D. Curcio, M.
,
RFC 8554 DOI 10.17487/RFC8554
rfc8554>

, and

,
.

,
, April 2019,

S. Fluhrer "Leighton-Micali Hash-Based Signatures"
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

,

Cooper, D. Santesson, S. Farrell, S. Boeyen, S. Housley, R.
"Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certificate and Certificate Revocation
List (CRL) Profile" RFC 5280 DOI 10.17487/RFC5280
editor.org/info/rfc5280>

, May 2008,

<https://www.rfc-

W. Polk

, and

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

 and

Q. Dang "Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure:

Kampanakis, P.
Additional Algorithm Identifiers for RSASSA-PSS and ECDSA Using SHAKEs" RFC
8692 DOI 10.17487/RFC8692
,
rfc8692>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, December 2019,

,

,

.

National Institute of Standards and Technology "SHA-3 Standard: Permutation-
Based Hash and Extendable-Output Functions" DOI 10.6028/NIST.FIPS.202 FIPS
PUB 202

<https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.FIPS.202>

, August 2015,

,
,

,

.

National Institute of Standards and Technology "Secure Hash Standard (SHS)"
FIPS PUB 180-4 DOI 10.6028/NIST.FIPS.180-4
10.6028/NIST.FIPS.180-4>

<https://doi.org/

, August 2015,

,

,

.

,

8.2.  Informative References

[BH2013]

,

Ptacek, T. Ritter, T. Samuel, J.
for the Cryptopocalypse"
Stamos-The-Factoring-Dead.pdf>

, and
, August 2013,

,

.

A. Stamos "The Factoring Dead: Preparing

,

<https://media.blackhat.com/us-13/us-13-

Housley

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9708

Use of the HSS/LMS Hash-Based Signature

January 2025

[CMSASN1]

[CMSASN1U]

[Err7960]

[Err7963]

[FWPROT]

[IANA-LMS]

[LM]

[M1979]

[M1987]

[M1989a]

[M1989b]

[NAS2019]

[PKIXASN1]

J. Schaad "New ASN.1 Modules for Cryptographic Message

 and

Hoffman, P.
Syntax (CMS) and S/MIME" RFC 5911 DOI 10.17487/RFC5911
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5911>

, June 2010,

,

,

,

.

<https://

,

 and

S. Turner "Additional New ASN.1 Modules for the Cryptographic

Schaad, J.
Message Syntax (CMS) and the Public Key Infrastructure Using X.509 (PKIX)"
,
RFC 6268 DOI 10.17487/RFC6268
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, July 2011,
rfc6268>

,
.

RFC Errata, Erratum ID 7960 RFC 8708 <https://www.rfc-editor.org/errata/
eid7960>

,

,

.

RFC Errata, Erratum ID 7963 RFC 8708 <https://www.rfc-editor.org/errata/
eid7963>

,

,

.

Housley, R. "Using Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS) to Protect Firmware
Packages" RFC 4108 DOI 10.17487/RFC4108
editor.org/info/rfc4108>

<https://www.rfc-

, August 2005,

,
,

,

.

,

IANA "Leighton-Micali Signatures (LMS)" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/
leighton-micali-signatures/>

,

.

Leighton, T.
schemes based on secure hash functions" U.S. Patent 5,432,852

S. Micali "Large provably fast and secure digital signature
, July 1995.

 and

,

,

Merkle, R. "Secrecy, Authentication, and Public Key Systems" Information
Systems Laboratory, Stanford University Technical Report No. 1979-1

, 1979.

,

,

,

,

Merkle, R. "A Digital Signature Based on a Conventional Encryption Function"
,
Advances in Cryptology -- CRYPTO '87 Proceedings Lecture Notes in Computer
Science, Vol. 293 DOI 10.1007/3-540-48184-2_32
10.1007/3-540-48184-2_32>

,
, 1988,

<https://doi.org/

,

.

,

Merkle, R. "A Certified Digital Signature" Advances in Cryptology -- CRYPTO '89
Proceedings Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 435 DOI
,
10.1007/0-387-34805-0_21

<https://doi.org/10.1007/0-387-34805-0_21>

, 1990,

,

,

.

,

Merkle, R. "One Way Hash Functions and DES" Advances in Cryptology --
CRYPTO '89 Proceedings Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 435 DOI
,
<https://doi.org/10.1007/0-387-34805-0_40>
10.1007/0-387-34805-0_40

, 1990,

,

,

.

National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine "Quantum
Computing: Progress and Prospects" The National Academies Press DOI
,
10.17226/25196

<https://doi.org/10.17226/25196>

, 2019,

,

.

,

 and

J. Schaad "New ASN.1 Modules for the Public Key

Hoffman, P.
Infrastructure Using X.509 (PKIX)" RFC 5912 DOI 10.17487/RFC5912
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5912>

,

,

.

, June 2010,

Housley

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9708

Use of the HSS/LMS Hash-Based Signature

January 2025

[PQC]

[RFC4086]

[X.509-S-HBS]

,

Bernstein, D. "Introduction to post-quantum cryptography" Post-Quantum
Cryptography, Springer, pp. 1-14 DOI 10.1007/978-3-540-88702-7_1
,
<https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-88702-7_1>

, 2009,

,

.

,

Eastlake 3rd, D. Schiller, J.
Security" BCP 106 RFC 4086 DOI 10.17487/RFC4086
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4086>

, and
,

,

,

.

S. Crocker "Randomness Requirements for

,

, June 2005,

<https://

,

,

Van Geest, D. Bashiri, K. Fluhrer, S. Gazdag, S.
,
and XMSS Hash-Based Signature Algorithms in Internet X.509 Public Key
Infrastructure" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-lamps-x509-shbs-13
12 December 2024,
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-lamps-x509-
shbs-13>
.

S. Kousidis "Use of the HSS

, and

,

,

,

,

Appendix A.  ASN.1 Module

The ASN.1 module in this appendix builds upon the modules in

[CMSASN1]

 and

[CMSASN1U]
.

<CODE BEGINS>
MTS-HashSig-2013
  { iso(1) member-body(2) us(840) rsadsi(113549) pkcs(1) pkcs-9(9)
    id-smime(16) id-mod(0) id-mod-mts-hashsig-2013(64) }

DEFINITIONS IMPLICIT TAGS ::= BEGIN

EXPORTS ALL;

IMPORTS
  PUBLIC-KEY, SIGNATURE-ALGORITHM, SMIME-CAPS
    FROM AlgorithmInformation-2009  -- RFC 5911 [CMSASN1]
      { iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1)
        security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) id-mod(0)
        id-mod-algorithmInformation-02(58) } ;

--
-- Object Identifiers
--

id-alg-hss-lms-hashsig OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { iso(1)
    member-body(2) us(840) rsadsi(113549) pkcs(1) pkcs-9(9)
    smime(16) alg(3) 17 }

id-alg-mts-hashsig OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= id-alg-hss-lms-hashsig

--
-- Signature Algorithm and Public Key
--

sa-HSS-LMS-HashSig SIGNATURE-ALGORITHM ::= {
    IDENTIFIER id-alg-hss-lms-hashsig
    PARAMS ARE absent
    PUBLIC-KEYS { pk-HSS-LMS-HashSig }
    SMIME-CAPS { IDENTIFIED BY id-alg-hss-lms-hashsig } }

Housley

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9708

Use of the HSS/LMS Hash-Based Signature

January 2025

pk-HSS-LMS-HashSig PUBLIC-KEY ::= {
    IDENTIFIER id-alg-hss-lms-hashsig
    -- KEY no ASN.1 wrapping --
    PARAMS ARE absent
    CERT-KEY-USAGE
        { digitalSignature, nonRepudiation, keyCertSign, cRLSign } }

HSS-LMS-HashSig-PublicKey ::= OCTET STRING

--
-- Expand the signature algorithm set used by CMS [CMSASN1U]
--

SignatureAlgorithmSet SIGNATURE-ALGORITHM ::=
    { sa-HSS-LMS-HashSig, ... }

--
-- Expand the S/MIME capabilities set used by CMS [CMSASN1]
--

SMimeCaps SMIME-CAPS ::=
    { sa-HSS-LMS-HashSig.&smimeCaps, ... }

END

<CODE ENDS>

Acknowledgements

Many thanks to the people that provided comments on the draft documents that resulted in RFC
Joe Clarke Roman Danyliw Scott Fluhrer Jonathan Hammell Ben Kaduk Panos
8708. Thanks to
Kampanakis Barry Leiba John Mattsson Jim Schaad Sean Turner Daniel Van Geest
,
Worley

 for their careful review and comments.

,
Dale
, and

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Many thanks to

Daniel Van Geest

 for motivating the creation of this document.

Author's Address

Russ Housley
Vigil Security, LLC
516 Dranesville Road
Herndon VA 20170
,
United States of America
Email:

housley@vigilsec.com

Housley

Standards Track

Page 13

