Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9449
Standards Track
September 2023
2070-1721
D. Fett
Authlete

B. Campbell
Ping Identity

J. Bradley
Yubico

Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

D. Waite
Ping Identity

T. Lodderstedt
Tuconic

M. Jones
Self-Issued Consulting

RFC 9449
OAuth 2.0 Demonstrating Proof of Possession (DPoP)

Abstract

This document describes a mechanism for sender-constraining OAuth 2.0 tokens via a proof-of-
possession mechanism on the application level. This mechanism allows for the detection of
replay attacks with access and refresh tokens.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9449
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Fett, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9449

OAuth DPoP

September 2023

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Conventions and Terminology

2.  Objectives

3.  Concept

4.  DPoP Proof JWTs

4.1.  The DPoP HTTP Header

4.2.  DPoP Proof JWT Syntax

4.3.  Checking DPoP Proofs

5.  DPoP Access Token Request

5.1.  Authorization Server Metadata

5.2.  Client Registration Metadata

6.  Public Key Confirmation

6.1.  JWK Thumbprint Confirmation Method

6.2.  JWK Thumbprint Confirmation Method in Token Introspection

7.  Protected Resource Access

7.1.  The DPoP Authentication Scheme

7.2.  Compatibility with the Bearer Authentication Scheme

7.3.  Client Considerations

8.  Authorization Server-Provided Nonce

8.1.  Nonce Syntax

8.2.  Providing a New Nonce Value

9.  Resource Server-Provided Nonce

10. Authorization Code Binding to a DPoP Key

10.1.  DPoP with Pushed Authorization Requests

11. Security Considerations

11.1.  DPoP Proof Replay

11.2.  DPoP Proof Pre-generation

4

4

5

6

8

8

9

10

11

14

14

14

15

15

16

17

20

21

22

23

23

24

25

25

26

26

27

Fett, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9449

OAuth DPoP

September 2023

11.3.  DPoP Nonce Downgrade

11.4.  Untrusted Code in the Client Context

11.5.  Signed JWT Swapping

11.6.  Signature Algorithms

11.7.  Request Integrity

11.8.  Access Token and Public Key Binding

11.9.  Authorization Code and Public Key Binding

11.10. Hash Algorithm Agility

11.11. Binding to Client Identity

12. IANA Considerations

12.1.  OAuth Access Token Types Registration

12.2.  OAuth Extensions Error Registration

12.3.  OAuth Parameters Registration

12.4.  HTTP Authentication Schemes Registration

12.5.  Media Type Registration

12.6.  JWT Confirmation Methods Registration

12.7.  JSON Web Token Claims Registration

12.7.1.  "nonce" Registration Update

12.8.  Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) Field Name Registration

12.9.  OAuth Authorization Server Metadata Registration

12.10. OAuth Dynamic Client Registration Metadata

13. References

13.1.  Normative References

13.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

27

27

28

28

28

29

29

29

30

30

30

30

31

31

31

32

32

33

34

34

34

35

35

36

38

38

Fett, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9449

OAuth DPoP

September 2023

1.  Introduction

[RFC6749]

Demonstrating Proof of Possession (DPoP) is an application-level mechanism for sender-
constraining OAuth
 access and refresh tokens. It enables a client to prove the
possession of a public/private key pair by including a DPoP header in an HTTP request. The value
[RFC7519]
of the header is a JSON Web Token (JWT)
 that enables the authorization server to bind
issued tokens to the public part of a client's key pair. Recipients of such tokens are then able to
verify the binding of the token to the key pair that the client has demonstrated that it holds via
the DPoP header, thereby providing some assurance that the client presenting the token also
possesses the private key. In other words, the legitimate presenter of the token is constrained to
be the sender that holds and proves possession of the private part of the key pair.

 or

[TOKEN-BINDING]

, are not available or desirable. For example, due to a sub-par

The mechanism specified herein can be used in cases where other methods of sender-
constraining tokens that utilize elements of the underlying secure transport layer, such as
[RFC8705]
user experience of TLS client authentication in user agents and a lack of support for HTTP token
binding, neither mechanism can be used if an OAuth client is an application that is dynamically
downloaded and executed in a web browser (sometimes referred to as a "single-page
application"). Additionally, applications that are installed and run directly on a user's device are
well positioned to benefit from DPoP-bound tokens that guard against the misuse of tokens by a
compromised or malicious resource. Such applications often have dedicated protected storage
for cryptographic keys.

DPoP can be used to sender-constrain access tokens regardless of the client authentication
method employed, but DPoP itself is not used for client authentication. DPoP can also be used to
sender-constrain refresh tokens issued to public clients (those without authentication credentials
associated with the client_id).

1.1.  Conventions and Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

This specification uses the Augmented Backus-Naur Form (ABNF) notation of

[RFC5234]
.

This specification uses the terms "access token", "refresh token", "authorization server", "resource
server", "authorization endpoint", "authorization request", "authorization response", "token
endpoint", "grant type", "access token request", "access token response", "client", "public client",
and "confidential client" defined by "The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework"

[RFC6749]
.

The terms "request", "response", "header field", and "target URI" are imported from

[RFC9110]
.

The terms "JOSE" and "JOSE Header" are imported from

[RFC7515]
.

Fett, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9449

OAuth DPoP

September 2023

This document contains non-normative examples of partial and complete HTTP messages. Some
examples use a single trailing backslash to indicate line wrapping for long values, as per
[RFC8792]
. The character and leading spaces on wrapped lines are not part of the value.

2.  Objectives

The primary aim of DPoP is to prevent unauthorized or illegitimate parties from using leaked or
stolen access tokens, by binding a token to a public key upon issuance and requiring that the
client proves possession of the corresponding private key when using the token. This constrains
the legitimate sender of the token to only the party with access to the private key and gives the
server receiving the token added assurances that the sender is legitimately authorized to use it.

Access tokens that are sender-constrained via DPoP thus stand in contrast to the typical bearer
token, which can be used by any party in possession of such a token. Although protections
generally exist to prevent unintended disclosure of bearer tokens, unforeseen vectors for leakage
have occurred due to vulnerabilities and implementation issues in other layers in the protocol or
software stack (see, e.g., Compression Ratio Info-leak Made Easy (CRIME)
Reconnaissance and Exfiltration via Adaptive Compression of Hypertext (BREACH)
, and the Cloudflare parser bug
Heartbleed
[GitHub.Tokens]
numerous published token theft attacks on OAuth implementations themselves (
is just one high-profile example). DPoP provides a general defense in depth against the impact of
unanticipated token leakage. DPoP is not, however, a substitute for a secure transport and
MUST
always be used in conjunction with HTTPS.

). There have also been

[Cloudbleed]

[Heartbleed]

[BREACH]
,

, Browser

[CRIME]

The very nature of the typical OAuth protocol interaction necessitates that the client discloses the
[SECURITY-TOPICS]
access token to the protected resources that it accesses. The attacker model in
describes cases where a protected resource might be counterfeit, malicious, or compromised and
plays received tokens against other protected resources to gain unauthorized access. Audience-
[RFC7519]
restricted access tokens (e.g., using the JWT
However, doing so in practice has proven to be prohibitively cumbersome for many deployments
(despite extensions such as
straightforward mechanism to prevent such token replay at a different endpoint, and DPoP is an
accessible application-layer means of doing so.

). Sender-constraining access tokens is a more robust and

 aud claim) can prevent such misuse.

[RFC8707]

Due to the potential for cross-site scripting (XSS), browser-based OAuth clients bring to bear
added considerations with respect to protecting tokens. The most straightforward XSS-based
attack is for an attacker to exfiltrate a token and use it themselves completely independent of the
legitimate client. A stolen access token is used for protected resource access, and a stolen refresh
token is used for obtaining new access tokens. If the private key is non-extractable (as is possible
with

), DPoP renders exfiltrated tokens alone unusable.

[W3C.WebCryptoAPI]

XSS vulnerabilities also allow an attacker to execute code in the context of the browser-based
client application and maliciously use a token indirectly through the client. That execution
context has access to utilize the signing key; thus, it can produce DPoP proofs to use in

Fett, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9449

OAuth DPoP

September 2023

conjunction with the token. At this application layer, there is most likely no feasible defense
against this threat except generally preventing XSS; therefore, it is considered out of scope for
DPoP.

Malicious XSS code executed in the context of the browser-based client application is also in a
position to create DPoP proofs with timestamp values in the future and exfiltrate them in
conjunction with a token. These stolen artifacts can later be used independent of the client
application to access protected resources. To prevent this, servers can optionally require clients
to include a server-chosen value into the proof that cannot be predicted by an attacker (nonce).
In the absence of the optional nonce, the impact of pre-computed DPoP proofs is limited
somewhat by the proof being bound to an access token on protected resource access. Because a
proof covering an access token that does not yet exist cannot feasibly be created, access tokens
obtained with an exfiltrated refresh token and pre-computed proofs will be unusable.

Additional security considerations are discussed in Section 11.

3.  Concept

The main data structure introduced by this specification is a DPoP proof JWT that is sent as a
header in an HTTP request, as described in detail below. A client uses a DPoP proof JWT to prove
the possession of a private key corresponding to a certain public key.

Roughly speaking, a DPoP proof is a signature over:

•

some data of the HTTP request to which it is attached,

•

a timestamp,

•

a unique identifier,

•

an optional server-provided nonce, and

•

a hash of the associated access token when an access token is present within the request.

Fett, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9449

OAuth DPoP

September 2023

+--------+                                          +---------------+
|        |--(A)-- Token Request ------------------->|               |
| Client |        (DPoP Proof)                      | Authorization |
|        |                                          |     Server    |
|        |<-(B)-- DPoP-Bound Access Token ----------|               |
|        |        (token_type=DPoP)                 +---------------+
|        |
|        |
|        |                                          +---------------+
|        |--(C)-- DPoP-Bound Access Token --------->|               |
|        |        (DPoP Proof)                      |    Resource   |
|        |                                          |     Server    |
|        |<-(D)-- Protected Resource ---------------|               |
|        |                                          +---------------+
+--------+

Figure 1: Basic DPoP Flow

The basic steps of an OAuth flow with DPoP (without the optional nonce) are shown in Figure 1.

A.

In the token request, the client sends an authorization grant (e.g., an authorization code,
refresh token, etc.) to the authorization server in order to obtain an access token (and
potentially a refresh token). The client attaches a DPoP proof to the request in an HTTP
header.

B.

The authorization server binds (sender-constrains) the access token to the public key
claimed by the client in the DPoP proof; that is, the access token cannot be used without
proving possession of the respective private key. If a refresh token is issued to a public client,
it is also bound to the public key of the DPoP proof.

C.

To use the access token, the client has to prove possession of the private key by, again, adding
a header to the request that carries a DPoP proof for that request. The resource server needs
to receive information about the public key to which the access token is bound. This
information may be encoded directly into the access token (for JWT-structured access
tokens) or provided via token introspection endpoint (not shown). The resource server
verifies that the public key to which the access token is bound matches the public key of the
DPoP proof. It also verifies that the access token hash in the DPoP proof matches the access
token presented in the request.

D.

The resource server refuses to serve the request if the signature check fails or if the data in
the DPoP proof is wrong, e.g., the target URI does not match the URI claim in the DPoP proof
JWT. The access token itself, of course, must also be valid in all other respects.

The DPoP mechanism presented herein is not a client authentication method. In fact, a primary
use case of DPoP is for public clients (e.g., single-page applications and applications on a user's
device) that do not use client authentication. Nonetheless, DPoP is designed to be compatible
with private_key_jwt and all other client authentication methods.

DPoP does not directly ensure message integrity, but it relies on the TLS layer for that purpose.
See Section 11 for details.

Fett, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9449

OAuth DPoP

September 2023

4.  DPoP Proof JWTs

DPoP introduces the concept of a DPoP proof, which is a JWT created by the client and sent with
an HTTP request using the DPoP header field. Each HTTP request requires a unique DPoP proof.

A valid DPoP proof demonstrates to the server that the client holds the private key that was used
to sign the DPoP proof JWT. This enables authorization servers to bind issued tokens to the
corresponding public key (as described in Section 5) and enables resource servers to verify the
key-binding of tokens that it receives (see Section 7.1), which prevents said tokens from being
used by any entity that does not have access to the private key.

The DPoP proof demonstrates possession of a key and, by itself, is not an authentication or access
control mechanism. When presented in conjunction with a key-bound access token as described
in Section 7.1, the DPoP proof provides additional assurance about the legitimacy of the client to
present the access token. However, a valid DPoP proof JWT is not sufficient alone to make access
control decisions.

4.1.  The DPoP HTTP Header

A DPoP proof is included in an HTTP request using the following request header field.

DPoP:

A JWT that adheres to the structure and syntax of Section 4.2.

Figure 2 shows an example DPoP HTTP header field. The example uses "\" line wrapping per
[RFC8792]
.

DPoP: eyJ0eXAiOiJkcG9wK2p3dCIsImFsZyI6IkVTMjU2IiwiandrIjp7Imt0eSI6Ik\
 VDIiwieCI6Imw4dEZyaHgtMzR0VjNoUklDUkRZOXpDa0RscEJoRjQyVVFVZldWQVdCR\
 nMiLCJ5IjoiOVZFNGpmX09rX282NHpiVFRsY3VOSmFqSG10NnY5VERWclUwQ2R2R1JE\
 QSIsImNydiI6IlAtMjU2In19.eyJqdGkiOiItQndDM0VTYzZhY2MybFRjIiwiaHRtIj\
 oiUE9TVCIsImh0dSI6Imh0dHBzOi8vc2VydmVyLmV4YW1wbGUuY29tL3Rva2VuIiwia\
 WF0IjoxNTYyMjYyNjE2fQ.2-GxA6T8lP4vfrg8v-FdWP0A0zdrj8igiMLvqRMUvwnQg\
 4PtFLbdLXiOSsX0x7NVY-FNyJK70nfbV37xRZT3Lg

Figure 2: Example DPoP Header

[RFC9110]

Note that per
all valid and equivalent header field names. However, case is significant in the header field
value.

, header field names are case insensitive; thus, DPoP, DPOP, dpop, etc., are

The DPoP HTTP header field value uses the token68 syntax defined in
and is repeated below in Figure 3 for ease of reference.

Section 11.2 of [RFC9110]

Fett, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9449

OAuth DPoP

September 2023

DPoP       = token68
token68    = 1*( ALPHA / DIGIT /
                 "-" / "." / "_" / "~" / "+" / "/" ) *"="

Figure 3: DPoP Header Field ABNF

4.2.  DPoP Proof JWT Syntax

A DPoP proof is a JWT
a private key chosen by the client (see below). The JOSE Header of a DPoP JWT
least the following parameters:

 that is signed (using JSON Web Signature (JWS)

[RFC7519]

[RFC7515]

) with

MUST

 contain at

typ:

A field with the value dpop+jwt, which explicitly types the DPoP proof JWT as

recommended in

Section 3.11 of [RFC8725]

.

alg:

An identifier for a JWS asymmetric digital signature algorithm from

. It
 be none or an identifier for a symmetric algorithm (Message Authentication Code

[IANA.JOSE.ALGS]

MUST NOT
(MAC)).

jwk:

Represents the public key chosen by the client in JSON Web Key (JWK)
. It

Section 4.1.3 of [RFC7515] MUST NOT

 contain a private key.

defined in

[RFC7517]

 format as

The payload of a DPoP proof

MUST

 contain at least the following claims:

jti:

Unique identifier for the DPoP proof JWT. The value

MUST

 be assigned such that there is a

negligible probability that the same value will be assigned to any other DPoP proof used in the
same context during the time window of validity. Such uniqueness can be accomplished by
encoding (base64url or any other suitable encoding) at least 96 bits of pseudorandom data or
by using a version 4 Universally Unique Identifier (UUID) string according to
. The
jti can be used by the server for replay detection and prevention; see Section 11.1.

[RFC4122]

htm:

The value of the HTTP method (

Section 9.1 of [RFC9110]

) of the request to which the JWT is

attached.

htu:

The HTTP target URI (

Section 7.1 of [RFC9110]

) of the request to which the JWT is attached,

without query and fragment parts.

iat:

Creation timestamp of the JWT (

Section 4.1.6 of [RFC7519]

).

When the DPoP proof is used in conjunction with the presentation of an access token in
protected resource access (see Section 7), the DPoP proof

 also contain the following claim:

MUST

ath:

Hash of the access token. The value
Section 2 of [RFC7515]
) the SHA-256

MUST
[SHS]

 be the result of a base64url encoding (as defined
 hash of the ASCII encoding of the associated

in
access token's value.

Fett, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9449

OAuth DPoP

September 2023

When the authentication server or resource server provides a DPoP-Nonce HTTP header in a
response (see Sections 8 and 9), the DPoP proof

 also contain the following claim:

MUST

nonce:

A recent nonce provided via the DPoP-Nonce HTTP header.

A DPoP proof
profile, or deployment-specific requirements.

MAY

 contain other JOSE Header Parameters or claims as defined by extension,

Figure 4 is a conceptual example showing the decoded content of the DPoP proof in Figure 2. The
JSON of the JWT header and payload are shown, but the signature part is omitted. As usual, line
breaks and extra spaces are included for formatting and readability.

{
  "typ":"dpop+jwt",
  "alg":"ES256",
  "jwk": {
    "kty":"EC",
    "x":"l8tFrhx-34tV3hRICRDY9zCkDlpBhF42UQUfWVAWBFs",
    "y":"9VE4jf_Ok_o64zbTTlcuNJajHmt6v9TDVrU0CdvGRDA",
    "crv":"P-256"
  }
}
.
{
  "jti":"-BwC3ESc6acc2lTc",
  "htm":"POST",
  "htu":"https://server.example.com/token",
  "iat":1562262616
}

Figure 4: Example JWT Content of a DPoP Proof

Of the HTTP request, only the HTTP method and URI are included in the DPoP JWT; therefore,
only these two message parts are covered by the DPoP proof. The idea is to sign just enough of
the HTTP data to provide reasonable proof of possession with respect to the HTTP request. This
design approach of using only a minimal subset of the HTTP header data is to avoid the
substantial difficulties inherent in attempting to normalize HTTP messages. Nonetheless, DPoP
proofs can be extended to contain other information of the HTTP request (see also Section 11.7).

4.3.  Checking DPoP Proofs

To validate a DPoP proof, the receiving server

MUST

 ensure the following:

1.

There is not more than one DPoP HTTP request header field.

2.

The DPoP HTTP request header field value is a single and well-formed JWT.

3.

All required claims per Section 4.2 are contained in the JWT.

4.

The typ JOSE Header Parameter has the value dpop+jwt.

Fett, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9449

OAuth DPoP

September 2023

5.

The alg JOSE Header Parameter indicates a registered asymmetric digital signature
algorithm
per local policy.

, is not none, is supported by the application, and is acceptable

[IANA.JOSE.ALGS]

6.

The JWT signature verifies with the public key contained in the jwk JOSE Header Parameter.

7.

The jwk JOSE Header Parameter does not contain a private key.

8.

The htm claim matches the HTTP method of the current request.

9.

The htu claim matches the HTTP URI value for the HTTP request in which the JWT was
received, ignoring any query and fragment parts.

10.

If the server provided a nonce value to the client, the nonce claim matches the server-
provided nonce value.

11.

The creation time of the JWT, as determined by either the iat claim or a server managed
timestamp via the nonce claim, is within an acceptable window (see Section 11.1).

12.

If presented to a protected resource in conjunction with an access token,

◦
ensure that the value of the ath claim equals the hash of that access token, and
◦
confirm that the public key to which the access token is bound matches the public key
from the DPoP proof.

To reduce the likelihood of false negatives, servers
Section 6.2.2 of [RFC3986]
(
comparing the htu claim.

) and scheme-based normalization (

SHOULD

 employ syntax-based normalization
) before

Section 6.2.3 of [RFC3986]

These checks may be performed in any order.

5.  DPoP Access Token Request

To request an access token that is bound to a public key using DPoP, the client
MUST
valid DPoP proof JWT in a DPoP header when making an access token request to the
authorization server's token endpoint. This is applicable for all access token requests regardless
of grant type (e.g., the common authorization_code and refresh_token grant types and
extension grants such as the JWT authorization grant
Figure 5 illustrates such an access token request using an authorization code grant with a DPoP
proof JWT in the DPoP header. Figure 5 uses "\" line wrapping per

). The HTTP request shown in

[RFC8792]
.

[RFC7523]

 provide a

Fett, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9449

OAuth DPoP

September 2023

POST /token HTTP/1.1
Host: server.example.com
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
DPoP: eyJ0eXAiOiJkcG9wK2p3dCIsImFsZyI6IkVTMjU2IiwiandrIjp7Imt0eSI6Ik\
 VDIiwieCI6Imw4dEZyaHgtMzR0VjNoUklDUkRZOXpDa0RscEJoRjQyVVFVZldWQVdCR\
 nMiLCJ5IjoiOVZFNGpmX09rX282NHpiVFRsY3VOSmFqSG10NnY5VERWclUwQ2R2R1JE\
 QSIsImNydiI6IlAtMjU2In19.eyJqdGkiOiItQndDM0VTYzZhY2MybFRjIiwiaHRtIj\
 oiUE9TVCIsImh0dSI6Imh0dHBzOi8vc2VydmVyLmV4YW1wbGUuY29tL3Rva2VuIiwia\
 WF0IjoxNTYyMjYyNjE2fQ.2-GxA6T8lP4vfrg8v-FdWP0A0zdrj8igiMLvqRMUvwnQg\
 4PtFLbdLXiOSsX0x7NVY-FNyJK70nfbV37xRZT3Lg

grant_type=authorization_code\
&client_id=s6BhdRkqt\
&code=SplxlOBeZQQYbYS6WxSbIA
&redirect_uri=https%3A%2F%2Fclient%2Eexample%2Ecom%2Fcb\
&code_verifier=bEaL42izcC-o-xBk0K2vuJ6U-y1p9r_wW2dFWIWgjz-

Figure 5: Token Request for a DPoP Sender-Constrained Token Using an Authorization Code

The DPoP HTTP header field
the authorization server issues an error response per
invalid_dpop_proof as the value of the error parameter.

MUST

 contain a valid DPoP proof JWT. If the DPoP proof is invalid,

Section 5.2 of [RFC6749]

 with

To sender-constrain the access token after checking the validity of the DPoP proof, the
authorization server associates the issued access token with the public key from the DPoP proof,
 be included in
which can be accomplished as described in Section 6. A token_type of DPoP
the access token response to signal to the client that the access token was bound to its DPoP key
and can be used as described in Section 7.1. The example response shown in Figure 6 illustrates
such a response.

MUST

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json
Cache-Control: no-store

{
 "access_token": "Kz~8mXK1EalYznwH-LC-1fBAo.4Ljp~zsPE_NeO.gxU",
 "token_type": "DPoP",
 "expires_in": 2677,
 "refresh_token": "Q..Zkm29lexi8VnWg2zPW1x-tgGad0Ibc3s3EwM_Ni4-g"
}

Figure 6: Access Token Response

The example response in Figure 6 includes a refresh token that the client can use to obtain a new
access token when the previous one expires. Refreshing an access token is a token request using
the refresh_token grant type made to the authorization server's token endpoint. As with all
access token requests, the client makes it a DPoP request by including a DPoP proof, as shown in
Figure 7. Figure 7 uses "\" line wrapping per

[RFC8792]
.

Fett, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9449

OAuth DPoP

September 2023

POST /token HTTP/1.1
Host: server.example.com
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
DPoP: eyJ0eXAiOiJkcG9wK2p3dCIsImFsZyI6IkVTMjU2IiwiandrIjp7Imt0eSI6Ik\
 VDIiwieCI6Imw4dEZyaHgtMzR0VjNoUklDUkRZOXpDa0RscEJoRjQyVVFVZldWQVdCR\
 nMiLCJ5IjoiOVZFNGpmX09rX282NHpiVFRsY3VOSmFqSG10NnY5VERWclUwQ2R2R1JE\
 QSIsImNydiI6IlAtMjU2In19.eyJqdGkiOiItQndDM0VTYzZhY2MybFRjIiwiaHRtIj\
 oiUE9TVCIsImh0dSI6Imh0dHBzOi8vc2VydmVyLmV4YW1wbGUuY29tL3Rva2VuIiwia\
 WF0IjoxNTYyMjY1Mjk2fQ.pAqut2IRDm_De6PR93SYmGBPXpwrAk90e8cP2hjiaG5Qs\
 GSuKDYW7_X620BxqhvYC8ynrrvZLTk41mSRroapUA

grant_type=refresh_token\
&client_id=s6BhdRkqt\
&refresh_token=Q..Zkm29lexi8VnWg2zPW1x-tgGad0Ibc3s3EwM_Ni4-g

Figure 7: Token Request for a DPoP-Bound Token Using a Refresh Token

When an authorization server supporting DPoP issues a refresh token to a public client that
presents a valid DPoP proof at the token endpoint, the refresh token
 be validated when the refresh token is later presented to
respective public key. The binding
get new access tokens. As a result, such a client
 present a DPoP proof for the same key that
was used to obtain the refresh token each time that refresh token is used to obtain a new access
token. The implementation details of the binding of the refresh token are at the discretion of the
authorization server. Since the authorization server both produces and validates its refresh
tokens, there is no interoperability consideration in the specific details of the binding.

 be bound to the

MUST

MUST

MUST

MAY

 elect to issue access tokens that are not DPoP bound, which is

An authorization server
signaled to the client with a value of Bearer in the token_type parameter of the access token
response per
of DPoP-binding the refresh token alone, which can improve the security posture even when
protected resources are not updated to support DPoP.

. For a public client that is also issued a refresh token, this has the effect

[RFC6750]

If the access token response contains a different token_type value than DPoP, the access token
protection provided by DPoP is not given. The client
protection is deemed important for the security of the application; otherwise, the client may
continue as in a regular OAuth interaction.

 discard the response in this case if this

MUST

[RFC6749]

Refresh tokens issued to confidential clients (those having established authentication credentials
with the authorization server) are not bound to the DPoP proof public key because they are
already sender-constrained with a different existing mechanism. The OAuth 2.0 Authorization
 already requires that an authorization server bind refresh tokens to the
Framework
client to which they were issued and that confidential clients authenticate to the authorization
server when presenting a refresh token. As a result, such refresh tokens are sender-constrained
by way of the client identifier and the associated authentication requirement. This existing
sender-constraining mechanism is more flexible (e.g., it allows credential rotation for the client
without invalidating refresh tokens) than binding directly to a particular public key.

Fett, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9449

OAuth DPoP

September 2023

5.1.  Authorization Server Metadata

This document introduces the following authorization server metadata
signal support for DPoP in general and the specific JWS alg values the authorization server
supports for DPoP proof JWTs.

[RFC8414]

 parameter to

dpop_signing_alg_values_supported:

A JSON array containing a list of the JWS alg values
 registry) supported by the authorization server for DPoP proof

(from the
JWTs.

[IANA.JOSE.ALGS]

5.2.  Client Registration Metadata

[RFC7591]

The Dynamic Client Registration Protocol
OAuth 2.0 client metadata with authorization servers. The metadata defined by
registered extensions to it, also imply a general data model for clients that is useful for
authorization server implementations even when the Dynamic Client Registration Protocol isn't
in play. Such implementations will typically have some sort of user interface available for
managing client configuration.

 defines an API for dynamically registering
, and

[RFC7591]

This document introduces the following client registration metadata
indicate that the client always uses DPoP when requesting tokens from the authorization server.

 parameter to

[RFC7591]

dpop_bound_access_tokens:

A boolean value specifying whether the client always uses DPoP

for token requests. If omitted, the default value is false.

If the value is true, the authorization server
not contain the DPoP header.

MUST

 reject token requests from the client that do

6.  Public Key Confirmation

MUST

 be able to reliably identify whether an access token is DPoP-bound and

Resource servers
ascertain sufficient information to verify the binding to the public key of the DPoP proof (see
Section 7.1). Such a binding is accomplished by associating the public key with the token in a way
that can be accessed by the protected resource, such as embedding the JWK hash in the issued
access token directly, using the syntax described in Section 6.1, or through token introspection as
described in Section 6.2. Other methods of associating a public key with an access token are
possible per an agreement by the authorization server and the protected resource; however, they
are beyond the scope of this specification.

Resource servers supporting DPoP
the one bound to the access token.

MUST

 ensure that the public key from the DPoP proof matches

Fett, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9449

OAuth DPoP

September 2023

6.1.  JWK Thumbprint Confirmation Method

When access tokens are represented as JWTs
represented using the jkt confirmation method member defined herein. To convey the hash of a
public key in a JWT, this specification introduces the following JWT Confirmation Method
[RFC7800]

 member for use under the cnf claim.

, the public key information is

[RFC7519]

jkt:

JWK SHA-256 Thumbprint confirmation method. The value of the jkt member
[RFC7515]

) of the JWK SHA-256 Thumbprint (according

MUST

 be

the base64url encoding (as defined in
to

[RFC7638]

) of the DPoP public key (in JWK format) to which the access token is bound.

The following example JWT in Figure 8 with a decoded JWT payload shown in Figure 9 contains a
cnf claim with the jkt JWK Thumbprint confirmation method member. The jkt value in these
examples is the hash of the public key from the DPoP proofs in the examples shown in Section 5.
The example uses "\" line wrapping per

[RFC8792]
.

eyJhbGciOiJFUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6IkJlQUxrYiJ9.eyJzdWIiOiJzb21lb25lQGV4YW1\
wbGUuY29tIiwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9zZXJ2ZXIuZXhhbXBsZS5jb20iLCJuYmYiOjE\
1NjIyNjI2MTEsImV4cCI6MTU2MjI2NjIxNiwiY25mIjp7ImprdCI6IjBaY09DT1JaTll\
5LURXcHFxMzBqWnlKR0hUTjBkMkhnbEJWM3VpZ3VBNEkifX0.3Tyo8VTcn6u_PboUmAO\
YUY1kfAavomW_YwYMkmRNizLJoQzWy2fCo79Zi5yObpIzjWb5xW4OGld7ESZrh0fsrA

Figure 8: JWT Containing a JWK SHA-256 Thumbprint Confirmation

{
  "sub":"someone@example.com",
  "iss":"https://server.example.com",
  "nbf":1562262611,
  "exp":1562266216,
  "cnf":
  {
    "jkt":"0ZcOCORZNYy-DWpqq30jZyJGHTN0d2HglBV3uiguA4I"
  }
}

Figure 9: JWT Claims Set with a JWK SHA-256 Thumbprint Confirmation

6.2.  JWK Thumbprint Confirmation Method in Token Introspection

"OAuth 2.0 Token Introspection"
authorization server about the active state of an access token. The protected resource also
determines metainformation about the token.

 defines a method for a protected resource to query an

[RFC7662]

For a DPoP-bound access token, the hash of the public key to which the token is bound is
conveyed to the protected resource as metainformation in a token introspection response. The
hash is conveyed using the same cnf content with jkt member structure as the JWK Thumbprint

Fett, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9449

OAuth DPoP

September 2023

confirmation method, described in Section 6.1, as a top-level member of the introspection
response JSON. Note that the resource server does not send a DPoP proof with the introspection
request, and the authorization server does not validate an access token's DPoP binding at the
introspection endpoint. Rather, the resource server uses the data of the introspection response to
validate the access token binding itself locally.

If the token_type member is included in the introspection response, it
DPoP.

MUST

 contain the value

The example introspection request in Figure 10 and corresponding response in Figure 11
illustrate an introspection exchange for the example DPoP-bound access token that was issued in
Figure 6.

POST /as/introspect.oauth2 HTTP/1.1
Host: server.example.com
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
Authorization: Basic cnM6cnM6TWt1LTZnX2xDektJZHo0ZnNON2tZY3lhK1Rp

token=Kz~8mXK1EalYznwH-LC-1fBAo.4Ljp~zsPE_NeO.gxU

Figure 10: Example Introspection Request

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json
Cache-Control: no-store

{
  "active": true,
  "sub": "someone@example.com",
  "iss": "https://server.example.com",
  "nbf": 1562262611,
  "exp": 1562266216,
  "cnf":
  {
    "jkt": "0ZcOCORZNYy-DWpqq30jZyJGHTN0d2HglBV3uiguA4I"
  }
}

Figure 11: Example Introspection Response for a DPoP-Bound Access Token

7.  Protected Resource Access

Requests to DPoP-protected resources
access token as described in Section 7.1. The DPoP proof
hash of the associated access token.

MUST

 include both a DPoP proof as per Section 4 and the

MUST

 include the ath claim with a valid

Binding the token value to the proof in this way prevents a proof to be used with multiple
different access token values across different requests. For example, if a client holds tokens
bound to two different resource owners, AT1 and AT2, and uses the same key when talking to the

Fett, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9449

OAuth DPoP

September 2023

authorization server, it's possible that these tokens could be swapped. Without the ath field to
bind it, a captured signature applied to AT1 could be replayed with AT2 instead, changing the
rights and access of the intended request. This same substitution prevention remains for rotated
access tokens within the same combination of client and resource owner -- a rotated token value
would require the calculation of a new proof. This binding additionally ensures that a proof
intended for use with the access token is not usable without an access token, or vice-versa.

The resource server is required to calculate the hash of the token value presented and verify that
it is the same as the hash value in the ath field as described in Section 4.3. Since the ath field
value is covered by the DPoP proof's signature, its inclusion binds the access token value to the
holder of the key used to generate the signature.

Note that the ath field alone does not prevent replay of the DPoP proof or provide binding to the
request in which the proof is presented, and it is still important to check the time window of the
proof as well as the included message parameters, such as htm and htu.

7.1.  The DPoP Authentication Scheme

A DPoP-bound access token is sent using the Authorization request header field per
11.6.2 of [RFC9110]
header field for the DPoP scheme uses the token68 syntax defined in
credentials and is repeated below for ease of reference. The ABNF notation syntax for DPoP
authentication scheme credentials is as follows:

Section
 with an authentication scheme of DPoP. The syntax of the Authorization
Section 11.2 of [RFC9110]

 for

token68    = 1*( ALPHA / DIGIT /
                 "-" / "." / "_" / "~" / "+" / "/" ) *"="

credentials = "DPoP" 1*SP token68

Figure 12: DPoP Authentication Scheme ABNF

For such an access token, a resource server
the DPoP header field of the HTTP request, check the DPoP proof according to the rules in Section
4.3, and check that the public key of the DPoP proof matches the public key to which the access
token is bound per Section 6.

 check that a DPoP proof was also received in

MUST

The resource server

MUST NOT

 grant access to the resource unless all checks are successful.

Figure 13 shows an example request to a protected resource with a DPoP-bound access token in
the Authorization header and the DPoP proof in the DPoP header. The example uses "\" line
wrapping per
. Figure 14 shows the decoded content of that DPoP proof. The JSON of
the JWT header and payload are shown, but the signature part is omitted. As usual, line breaks
and indentation are included for formatting and readability.

[RFC8792]

Fett, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9449

OAuth DPoP

September 2023

GET /protectedresource HTTP/1.1
Host: resource.example.org
Authorization: DPoP Kz~8mXK1EalYznwH-LC-1fBAo.4Ljp~zsPE_NeO.gxU
DPoP: eyJ0eXAiOiJkcG9wK2p3dCIsImFsZyI6IkVTMjU2IiwiandrIjp7Imt0eSI6Ik\
 VDIiwieCI6Imw4dEZyaHgtMzR0VjNoUklDUkRZOXpDa0RscEJoRjQyVVFVZldWQVdCR\
 nMiLCJ5IjoiOVZFNGpmX09rX282NHpiVFRsY3VOSmFqSG10NnY5VERWclUwQ2R2R1JE\
 QSIsImNydiI6IlAtMjU2In19.eyJqdGkiOiJlMWozVl9iS2ljOC1MQUVCIiwiaHRtIj\
 oiR0VUIiwiaHR1IjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9yZXNvdXJjZS5leGFtcGxlLm9yZy9wcm90ZWN0Z\
 WRyZXNvdXJjZSIsImlhdCI6MTU2MjI2MjYxOCwiYXRoIjoiZlVIeU8ycjJaM0RaNTNF\
 c05yV0JiMHhXWG9hTnk1OUlpS0NBcWtzbVFFbyJ9.2oW9RP35yRqzhrtNP86L-Ey71E\
 OptxRimPPToA1plemAgR6pxHF8y6-yqyVnmcw6Fy1dqd-jfxSYoMxhAJpLjA

Figure 13: DPoP-Protected Resource Request

{
  "typ":"dpop+jwt",
  "alg":"ES256",
  "jwk": {
    "kty":"EC",
    "x":"l8tFrhx-34tV3hRICRDY9zCkDlpBhF42UQUfWVAWBFs",
    "y":"9VE4jf_Ok_o64zbTTlcuNJajHmt6v9TDVrU0CdvGRDA",
    "crv":"P-256"
  }
}
.
{
  "jti":"e1j3V_bKic8-LAEB",
  "htm":"GET",
  "htu":"https://resource.example.org/protectedresource",
  "iat":1562262618,
  "ath":"fUHyO2r2Z3DZ53EsNrWBb0xWXoaNy59IiKCAqksmQEo"
}

Figure 14: Decoded Content of the DPoP Proof JWT in Figure 13

Upon receipt of a request to a protected resource within the protection space requiring DPoP
authentication, the server can respond with a challenge to the client to provide DPoP
authentication information if the request does not include valid credentials or does not contain
an access token sufficient for access. Such a challenge is made using the 401 (Unauthorized)
response status code (
[RFC9110], Section 11.6.1
(
other conditions as well.

 include the WWW-Authenticate header in response to

) and the WWW-Authenticate header field

[RFC9110], Section 15.5.2

). The server

MAY

In such challenges:

•

The scheme name is DPoP.

•

The authentication parameter realm
the manner described in

[RFC9110], Section 11.5

.

MAY

 be included to indicate the scope of protection in

•

A scope authentication parameter

MAY

 be included as defined in

[RFC6750], Section 3

.

Fett, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9449

OAuth DPoP

September 2023

•

)

[RFC6750], Section 3 SHOULD

 be included to indicate the reason why
An error parameter (
the request was declined, if the request included an access token but failed authentication.
The error parameter values described in
appropriate values defined by extension. The value use_dpop_nonce can be used as
described in Section 9 to signal that a nonce is needed in the DPoP proof of a subsequent
request(s). Additionally, invalid_dpop_proof is used to indicate that the DPoP proof itself
was deemed invalid based on the criteria of Section 4.3.

 are suitable, as are any

[RFC6750], Section 3.1

•

An error_description parameter (
error parameter to provide developers a human-readable explanation that is not meant to
be displayed to end-users.

 be included along with the

[RFC6750], Section 3 MAY

)

•

An algs parameter
 be included to signal to the client the JWS algorithms that are
acceptable for the DPoP proof JWT. The value of the parameter is a space-delimited list of
JWS alg (Algorithm) header values (

[RFC7515], Section 4.1.1

SHOULD

).

•

Additional authentication parameters
ignored by recipients.

MAY

 be used, and unknown parameters

MUST

 be

Figure 15 shows a response to a protected resource request without authentication.

 HTTP/1.1 401 Unauthorized
 WWW-Authenticate: DPoP algs="ES256 PS256"

Figure 15: HTTP 401 Response to a Protected Resource Request without Authentication

Figure 16 shows a response to a protected resource request that was rejected due to the failed
confirmation of the DPoP binding in the access token. Figure 16 uses "\" line wrapping per
[RFC8792]
.

HTTP/1.1 401 Unauthorized
WWW-Authenticate: DPoP error="invalid_token", \
   error_description="Invalid DPoP key binding", algs="ES256"

Figure 16: HTTP 401 Response to a Protected Resource Request with an Invalid Token

Note that browser-based client applications using Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS)
[WHATWG.Fetch]
order for the application to obtain and use the WWW-Authenticate HTTP response header value,
the server needs to make it available to the application by including WWW-Authenticate in the
Access-Control-Expose-Headers response header list value.

 only have access to CORS-safelisted response HTTP headers by default. In

This authentication scheme is for origin-server authentication only. Therefore, this
 be used with the Proxy-Authenticate or Proxy-
authentication scheme
Authorization header fields.

MUST NOT

Fett, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9449

OAuth DPoP

September 2023

Note that the syntax of the Authorization header field for this authentication scheme follows
the usage of the Bearer scheme defined in
credential syntax of
therein and is used for consistency and familiarity with the Bearer scheme.

, it is compatible with the general authentication framework

Section 2.1 of [RFC6750]

. While it is not the preferred

[RFC9110]

7.2.  Compatibility with the Bearer Authentication Scheme

Protected resources simultaneously supporting both the DPoP and Bearer schemes need to
update how the evaluation process is performed for bearer tokens to prevent downgraded usage
of a DPoP-bound access token. Specifically, such a protected resource
 reject a DPoP-bound
access token received as a bearer token per

[RFC6750]
.

MUST

Section 11.6.1 of [RFC9110]
authentication schemes (i.e., Bearer and DPoP) with the WWW-Authenticate header field of a 401
(Unauthorized) response.

 allows a protected resource to indicate support for multiple

[RFC7662]

[RFC6750]

 and is unaware of DPoP would most

A protected resource that supports only
presumably accept a DPoP-bound access token as a bearer token (JWT
unrecognized claims, Introspection
 is effectively silent on the
placing no functional requirements on their presence, and
content of the access token since it relates to validity). As such, a client can send a DPoP-bound
access token using the Bearer scheme upon receipt of a WWW-Authenticate: Bearer challenge
from a protected resource (or it can send a DPoP-bound access token if it has prior knowledge of
the capabilities of the protected resource). The effect of this likely simplifies the logistics of
phased upgrades to protected resources in their support DPoP or prolonged deployments of
protected resources with mixed token type support.

 says that other parameters might be present while

 says to ignore

[RFC6750]

[RFC7519]

If a protected resource supporting both Bearer and DPoP schemes elects to respond with multiple
WWW-Authenticate challenges, attention should be paid to which challenge(s) should deliver the
actual error information. It is

 that the following rules be adhered to:

RECOMMENDED

•

If no authentication information has been included with the request, then the challenges
SHOULD NOT
[RFC6750]

 include an error code or other error information, as per

Section 3.1 of

 (Figure 17).

•

If the mechanism used to attempt authentication could be established unambiguously, then
the corresponding challenge

 be used to deliver error information (Figure 18).

SHOULD

•

Otherwise, both Bearer and DPoP challenges
(Figure 19).

MAY

 be used to deliver error information

The following examples use "\" line wrapping per

[RFC8792]
.

Fett, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9449

OAuth DPoP

September 2023

GET /protectedresource HTTP/1.1
Host: resource.example.org

HTTP/1.1 401 Unauthorized
WWW-Authenticate: Bearer, DPoP algs="ES256 PS256"

Figure 17: HTTP 401 Response to a Protected Resource Request without Authentication

GET /protectedresource HTTP/1.1
Host: resource.example.org
Authorization: Bearer INVALID_TOKEN

HTTP/1.1 401 Unauthorized
WWW-Authenticate: Bearer error="invalid_token", \
    error_description="Invalid token", DPoP algs="ES256 PS256"

Figure 18: HTTP 401 Response to a Protected Resource Request with Invalid Authentication

GET /protectedresource HTTP/1.1
Host: resource.example.org
Authorization: Bearer Kz~8mXK1EalYznwH-LC-1fBAo.4Ljp~zsPE_NeO.gxU
Authorization: DPoP Kz~8mXK1EalYznwH-LC-1fBAo.4Ljp~zsPE_NeO.gxU

HTTP/1.1 400 Bad Request
WWW-Authenticate: Bearer error="invalid_request", \
 error_description="Multiple methods used to include access token", \
 DPoP algs="ES256 PS256", error="invalid_request", \
 error_description="Multiple methods used to include access token"

Figure 19: HTTP 400 Response to a Protected Resource Request with Ambiguous Authentication

7.3.  Client Considerations

Authorization including a DPoP proof may not be idempotent (depending on server enforcement
of jti, iat, and nonce claims). Consequently, all previously idempotent requests for protected
resources that were previously idempotent may no longer be idempotent. It is
RECOMMENDED
that clients generate a unique DPoP proof, even when retrying idempotent requests in response
to HTTP errors generally understood as transient.

Clients that encounter frequent network errors may experience additional challenges when
interacting with servers with stricter nonce validation implementations.

Fett, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9449

OAuth DPoP

September 2023

8.  Authorization Server-Provided Nonce

This section specifies a mechanism using opaque nonces provided by the server that can be used
to limit the lifetime of DPoP proofs. Without employing such a mechanism, a malicious party
controlling the client (potentially including the end-user) can create DPoP proofs for use
arbitrarily far in the future.

Including a nonce value contributed by the authorization server in the DPoP proof
by authorization servers to limit the lifetime of DPoP proofs. The server determines when to
issue a new DPoP nonce challenge and if it is needed, thereby requiring the use of the nonce
value in subsequent DPoP proofs. The logic through which the server makes that determination
is out of scope of this document.

 be used

MAY

MAY

 supply a nonce value to be included by the client in DPoP proofs

An authorization server
sent. In this case, the authorization server responds to requests that do not include a nonce with
an HTTP 400 (Bad Request) error response per
 using use_dpop_nonce as
the error code value. The authorization server includes a DPoP-Nonce HTTP header in the
response supplying a nonce value to be used when sending the subsequent request. Nonce values
MUST
there was a nonce mismatch. The client will typically retry the request with the new nonce value
supplied upon receiving a use_dpop_nonce error with an accompanying nonce value.

 be unpredictable. This same error code is used when supplying a new nonce value when

Section 5.2 of [RFC6749]

For example, in response to a token request without a nonce when the authorization server
requires one, the authorization server can respond with a DPoP-Nonce value such as the
following to provide a nonce value to include in the DPoP proof:

 HTTP/1.1 400 Bad Request
 DPoP-Nonce: eyJ7S_zG.eyJH0-Z.HX4w-7v

 {
  "error": "use_dpop_nonce",
  "error_description":
    "Authorization server requires nonce in DPoP proof"
 }

Figure 20: HTTP 400 Response to a Token Request without a Nonce

Other HTTP headers and JSON fields
NOT

 be more than one DPoP-Nonce header.

MAY

 also be included in the error response, but there

MUST

Upon receiving the nonce, the client is expected to retry its token request using a DPoP proof
including the supplied nonce value in the nonce claim of the DPoP proof. An example unencoded
JWT payload of such a DPoP proof including a nonce is shown below.

Fett, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9449

OAuth DPoP

September 2023

 {
  "jti": "-BwC3ESc6acc2lTc",
  "htm": "POST",
  "htu": "https://server.example.com/token",
  "iat": 1562262616,
  "nonce": "eyJ7S_zG.eyJH0-Z.HX4w-7v"
 }

Figure 21: DPoP Proof Payload including a Nonce Value

The nonce is opaque to the client.

If the nonce claim in the DPoP proof does not exactly match a nonce recently supplied by the
authorization server to the client, the authorization server
response
subsequent requests.

 include a DPoP-Nonce HTTP header providing a new nonce value to use for

 reject the request. The rejection

MUST

MAY

The intent is that clients need to keep only one nonce value and servers need to keep a window
of recent nonces. That said, transient circumstances may arise in which the stored nonce values
for the server and the client differ. However, this situation is self-correcting. With any rejection
message, the server can send the client the nonce value it wants to use to the client, and the
client can store that nonce value and retry the request with it. Even if the client and/or server
discard their stored nonce values, that situation is also self-correcting because new nonce values
can be communicated when responding to or retrying failed requests.

Note that browser-based client applications using CORS
CORS-safelisted response HTTP headers by default. In order for the application to obtain and use
the DPoP-Nonce HTTP response header value, the server needs to make it available to the
application by including DPoP-Nonce in the Access-Control-Expose-Headers response header
list value.

 only have access to

[WHATWG.Fetch]

8.1.  Nonce Syntax

The nonce syntax in ABNF as used by
shown below.

[RFC6749]

 (which is the same as the scope-token syntax) is

nonce = 1*NQCHAR

Figure 22: Nonce ABNF

8.2.  Providing a New Nonce Value

It is up to the authorization server when to supply a new nonce value for the client to use. The
client is expected to use the existing supplied nonce in DPoP proofs until the server supplies a
new nonce value.

Fett, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9449

OAuth DPoP

September 2023

 supply the new nonce in the same way that the initial one was
The authorization server
supplied: by using a DPoP-Nonce HTTP header in the response. The DPoP-Nonce HTTP header
field uses the nonce syntax defined in Section 8.1. Each time this happens, it requires an extra
protocol round trip.

MAY

A more efficient manner of supplying a new nonce value is also defined by including a DPoP-
Nonce HTTP header in the HTTP 200 (OK) response from the previous request. The client
use the new nonce value supplied for the next token request and for all subsequent token
requests until the authorization server supplies a new nonce.

MUST

Responses that include the DPoP-Nonce HTTP header should be uncacheable (e.g., using Cache-
Control: no-store in response to a GET request) to prevent the response from being used to
serve a subsequent request and a stale nonce value from being used as a result.

An example 200 OK response providing a new nonce value is shown below.

 HTTP/1.1 200 OK
 Cache-Control: no-store
 DPoP-Nonce: eyJ7S_zG.eyJbYu3.xQmBj-1

Figure 23: HTTP 200 Response Providing the Next Nonce Value

9.  Resource Server-Provided Nonce

Resource servers can also choose to provide a nonce value to be included in DPoP proofs sent to
them. They provide the nonce using the DPoP-Nonce header in the same way that authorization
servers do as described in Sections 8 and 8.2. The error signaling is performed as described in
Section 7.1. Resource servers use an HTTP 401 (Unauthorized) error code with an accompanying
WWW-Authenticate: DPoP value and DPoP-Nonce value to accomplish this.

For example, in response to a resource request without a nonce when the resource server
requires one, the resource server can respond with a DPoP-Nonce value such as the following to
provide a nonce value to include in the DPoP proof. The example below uses "\" line wrapping
per

[RFC8792]
.

 HTTP/1.1 401 Unauthorized
 WWW-Authenticate: DPoP error="use_dpop_nonce", \
   error_description="Resource server requires nonce in DPoP proof"
 DPoP-Nonce: eyJ7S_zG.eyJH0-Z.HX4w-7v

Figure 24: HTTP 401 Response to a Resource Request without a Nonce

Note that the nonces provided by an authorization server and a resource server are different and
should not be confused with one another since nonces will be only accepted by the server that
issued them. Likewise, should a client use multiple authorization servers and/or resource

Fett, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9449

OAuth DPoP

September 2023

servers, a nonce issued by any of them should be used only at the issuing server. Developers
should also be careful to not confuse DPoP nonces with the OpenID Connect
Token nonce.

[OpenID.Core]

 ID

10.  Authorization Code Binding to a DPoP Key

Binding the authorization code issued to the client's proof-of-possession key can enable end-to-
end binding of the entire authorization flow. This specification defines the dpop_jkt
authorization request parameter for this purpose. The value of the dpop_jkt authorization
request parameter is the JWK Thumbprint
the SHA-256 hash function, which is the same value as used for the jkt confirmation method
defined in Section 6.1.

 of the proof-of-possession public key using

[RFC7638]

When a token request is received, the authorization server computes the JWK Thumbprint of the
proof-of-possession public key in the DPoP proof and verifies that it matches the dpop_jkt
parameter value in the authorization request. If they do not match, it

 reject the request.

MUST

An example authorization request using the dpop_jkt authorization request parameter is shown
[RFC8792]
.
below and uses "\" line wrapping per

GET /authorize?response_type=code&client_id=s6BhdRkqt3&state=xyz\
    &redirect_uri=https%3A%2F%2Fclient%2Eexample%2Ecom%2Fcb\
    &code_challenge=E9Melhoa2OwvFrEMTJguCHaoeK1t8URWbuGJSstw-cM\
    &code_challenge_method=S256\
    &dpop_jkt=NzbLsXh8uDCcd-6MNwXF4W_7noWXFZAfHkxZsRGC9Xs HTTP/1.1
Host: server.example.com

Figure 25: Authorization Request Using the dpop_jkt Parameter

Use of the dpop_jkt authorization request parameter is
authorization request parameter
Exchange (PKCE)
to authorization code injection. The dpop_jkt authorization request parameter only provides
similar protections when a unique DPoP key is used for each authorization request.

. Note that the dpop_jkt
 also be used in combination with Proof Key for Code
[SECURITY-TOPICS]

, which is recommended by

[RFC7636]

OPTIONAL

MAY

 as a countermeasure

10.1.  DPoP with Pushed Authorization Requests

When Pushed Authorization Requests (PARs)
are two ways in which the DPoP key can be communicated in the PAR request:

[RFC9126]

 are used in conjunction with DPoP, there

•

The dpop_jkt parameter can be used as described in Section 10 to bind the issued
authorization code to a specific key. In this case, dpop_jkt
authorization request parameters in the POST body of the PAR request.

MUST

 be included alongside other

•

Alternatively, the DPoP header can be added to the PAR request. In this case, the
authorization server
 further behave as if the contained public key's thumbprint was provided using
MUST
dpop_jkt, i.e., reject the subsequent token request unless a DPoP proof for the same key is

 check the provided DPoP proof JWT as defined in Section 4.3. It

MUST

Fett, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9449

OAuth DPoP

September 2023

provided. This can help to simplify the implementation of the client, as it can "blindly" attach
the DPoP header to all requests to the authorization server regardless of the type of request.
Additionally, it provides a stronger binding, as the DPoP header contains a proof of
possession of the private key.

Both mechanisms
both mechanisms are used at the same time, the authorization server
the JWK Thumbprint in dpop_jkt does not match the public key in the DPoP header.

 be supported by an authorization server that supports PAR and DPoP. If
 reject the request if

MUST

MUST

Allowing both mechanisms ensures that clients using dpop_jkt do not need to distinguish
between front-channel and pushed authorization requests, and at the same time, clients that
only have one code path for protecting all calls to authorization server endpoints do not need to
distinguish between requests to the PAR endpoint and the token endpoint.

11.  Security Considerations

[RFC6125]

In DPoP, the prevention of token replay at a different endpoint (see Section 2) is achieved through
authentication of the server per
and HTTP method. However, DPoP has a somewhat different nature of protection than TLS-based
methods such as OAuth Mutual TLS
also Sections 11.1 and 11.7). TLS-based mechanisms can leverage a tight integration between the
TLS layer and the application layer to achieve strong message integrity, authenticity, and replay
protection.

 and the binding of the DPoP proof to a certain URI

 or OAuth Token Binding

[TOKEN-BINDING]

[RFC8705]

 (see

11.1.  DPoP Proof Replay

If an adversary is able to get hold of a DPoP proof JWT, the adversary could replay that token at
the same endpoint (the HTTP endpoint and method are enforced via the respective claims in the
JWTs). To limit this, servers
 only accept DPoP proofs for a limited time after their creation
(preferably only for a relatively brief period on the order of seconds or minutes).

MUST

In the context of the target URI, servers can store the jti value of each DPoP proof for the time
window in which the respective DPoP proof JWT would be accepted to prevent multiple uses of
the same DPoP proof. HTTP requests to the same URI for which the jti value has been seen
before would be declined. When strictly enforced, such a single-use check provides a very strong
protection against DPoP proof replay, but it may not always be feasible in practice, e.g., when
multiple servers behind a single endpoint have no shared state.

In order to guard against memory exhaustion attacks, a server that is tracking jti values should
reject DPoP proof JWTs with unnecessarily large jti values or store only a hash thereof.

Note: To accommodate for clock offsets, the server
 accept DPoP proofs that carry an iat
time in the reasonably near future (on the order of seconds or minutes). Because clock skews
between servers and clients may be large, servers
server-provided nonce values containing the time at the server rather than comparing the client-
supplied iat time to the time at the server. Nonces created in this way yield the same result even
in the face of arbitrarily large clock skews.

 limit DPoP proof lifetimes by using

MAY

MAY

Fett, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9449

OAuth DPoP

September 2023

Server-provided nonces are an effective means for further reducing the chances for successful
DPoP proof replay. Unlike cryptographic nonces, it is acceptable for clients to use the same nonce
multiple times and for the server to accept the same nonce multiple times. As long as the jti
value is tracked and duplicates are rejected for the lifetime of the nonce, there is no additional
risk of token replay.

11.2.  DPoP Proof Pre-generation

An attacker in control of the client can pre-generate DPoP proofs for specific endpoints
arbitrarily far into the future by choosing the iat value in the DPoP proof to be signed by the
proof-of-possession key. Note that one such attacker is the person who is the legitimate user of
the client. The user may pre-generate DPoP proofs to exfiltrate from the machine possessing the
proof-of-possession key upon which they were generated and copy them to another machine that
does not possess the key. For instance, a bank employee might pre-generate DPoP proofs on a
bank computer and then copy them to another machine for use in the future, thereby bypassing
bank audit controls. When DPoP proofs can be pre-generated and exfiltrated, all that is actually
being proved in DPoP protocol interactions is possession of a DPoP proof -- not of the proof-of-
possession key.

Use of server-provided nonce values that are not predictable by attackers can prevent this attack.
By providing new nonce values at times of its choosing, the server can limit the lifetime of DPoP
proofs, preventing pre-generated DPoP proofs from being used. When server-provided nonces
are used, possession of the proof-of-possession key is being demonstrated -- not just possession of
a DPoP proof.

The ath claim limits the use of pre-generated DPoP proofs to the lifetime of the access token.
Deployments that do not utilize the nonce mechanism
constrained access tokens, preferring instead to use short-lived access tokens and refresh tokens.
Whilst an attacker could pre-generate DPoP proofs to use the refresh token to obtain a new
access token, they would be unable to realistically pre-generate DPoP proofs to use a newly
issued access token.

 issue long-lived DPoP

SHOULD NOT

11.3.  DPoP Nonce Downgrade

A server
MUST NOT
been provided to the client.

 accept any DPoP proofs without the nonce claim when a DPoP nonce has

11.4.  Untrusted Code in the Client Context

If an adversary is able to run code in the client's execution context, the security of DPoP is no
longer guaranteed. Common issues in web applications leading to the execution of untrusted
code are XSS and remote code inclusion attacks.

If the private key used for DPoP is stored in such a way that it cannot be exported, e.g., in a
hardware or software security module, the adversary cannot exfiltrate the key and use it to
create arbitrary DPoP proofs. The adversary can, however, create new DPoP proofs as long as the

Fett, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9449

OAuth DPoP

September 2023

client is online and uses these proofs (together with the respective tokens) either on the victim's
device or on a device under the attacker's control to send arbitrary requests that will be accepted
by servers.

To send requests even when the client is offline, an adversary can try to pre-compute DPoP
proofs using timestamps in the future and exfiltrate these together with the access or refresh
token.

An adversary might further try to associate tokens issued from the token endpoint with a key
pair under the adversary's control. One way to achieve this is to modify existing code, e.g., by
replacing cryptographic APIs. Another way is to launch a new authorization grant between the
client and the authorization server in an iframe. This grant needs to be "silent", i.e., not require
interaction with the user. With code running in the client's origin, the adversary has access to the
resulting authorization code and can use it to associate their own DPoP keys with the tokens
returned from the token endpoint. The adversary is then able to use the resulting tokens on their
own device even if the client is offline.

Therefore, protecting clients against the execution of untrusted code is extremely important even
if DPoP is used. Besides secure coding practices, Content Security Policy
 can be used as
a second layer of defense against XSS.

[W3C.CSP]

11.5.  Signed JWT Swapping

 verify that the typ field is dpop+jwt in the
Servers accepting signed DPoP proof JWTs
MUST
headers of the JWTs to ensure that adversaries cannot use JWTs created for other purposes.

11.6.  Signature Algorithms

MUST

Implementers
 ensure that only asymmetric digital signature algorithms (such as ES256)
that are deemed secure can be used for signing DPoP proofs. In particular, the algorithm none
MUST NOT

 be allowed.

11.7.  Request Integrity

DPoP does not ensure the integrity of the payload or headers of requests. The DPoP proof only
contains claims for the HTTP URI and method, but not the message body or general request
headers, for example.

This is an intentional design decision intended to keep DPoP simple to use, but as described, it
makes DPoP potentially susceptible to replay attacks where an attacker is able to modify message
contents and headers. In many setups, the message integrity and confidentiality provided by TLS
is sufficient to provide a good level of protection.

Note: While signatures covering other parts of requests are out of the scope of this specification,
additional information to be signed can be added into DPoP proofs.

Fett, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 9449

OAuth DPoP

September 2023

11.8.  Access Token and Public Key Binding

The binding of the access token to the DPoP public key, as specified in Section 6, uses a
cryptographic hash of the JWK representation of the public key. It relies on the hash function
having sufficient second-preimage resistance so as to make it computationally infeasible to find
or create another key that produces to the same hash output value. The SHA-256 hash function
was used because it meets the aforementioned requirement while being widely available.

Similarly, the binding of the DPoP proof to the access token uses a hash of that access token as the
value of the ath claim in the DPoP proof (see Section 4.2). This relies on the value of the hash
being sufficiently unique so as to reliably identify the access token. The collision resistance of
SHA-256 meets that requirement.

11.9.  Authorization Code and Public Key Binding

Cryptographic binding of the authorization code to the DPoP public key is specified in Section 10.
This binding prevents attacks in which the attacker captures the authorization code and creates
a DPoP proof using a proof-of-possession key other than the one held by the client and redeems
the authorization code using that DPoP proof. By ensuring end to end that only the client's DPoP
key can be used, this prevents captured authorization codes from being exfiltrated and used at
locations other than the one to which the authorization code was issued.

Authorization codes can, for instance, be harvested by attackers from places where the HTTP
messages containing them are logged. Even when efforts are made to make authorization codes
one-time-use, in practice, there is often a time window during which attackers can replay them.
For instance, when authorization servers are implemented as scalable replicated services, some
replicas may temporarily not yet have the information needed to prevent replay. DPoP binding of
the authorization code solves these problems.

If an authorization server does not (or cannot) strictly enforce the single-use limitation for
authorization codes and an attacker can access the authorization code (and if PKCE is used, the
code_verifier), the attacker can create a forged token request, binding the resulting token to an
attacker-controlled key. For example, using XSS, attackers might obtain access to the
authorization code and PKCE parameters. Use of the dpop_jkt parameter prevents this attack.

The binding of the authorization code to the DPoP public key uses a JWK Thumbprint of the
public key, just as the access token binding does. The same JWK Thumbprint considerations
apply.

11.10.  Hash Algorithm Agility

The jkt confirmation method member, the ath JWT claim, and the dpop_jkt authorization
request parameter defined herein all use the output of the SHA-256 hash function as their value.
The use of a single hash function by this specification was intentional and aimed at simplicity
and avoidance of potential security and interoperability issues arising from common mistakes
implementing and deploying parameterized algorithm agility schemes. However, the use of a

Fett, et al.

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 9449

OAuth DPoP

September 2023

different hash function is not precluded if future circumstances change and make SHA-256
insufficient for the requirements of this specification. Should that need arise, it is expected that a
short specification will be produced that updates this one. Using the output of an appropriate
hash function as the value, that specification will likely define a new confirmation method
member, a new JWT claim, and a new authorization request parameter. These items will be used
in place of, or alongside, their respective counterparts in the same message structures and flows
of the larger protocol defined by this specification.

11.11.  Binding to Client Identity

In cases where DPoP is used with client authentication, it is only bound to authentication by
being coincident in the same TLS tunnel. Since the DPoP proof is not directly bound to the
authentication cryptographically, it's possible that the authentication or the DPoP messages were
copied into the tunnel. While including the URI in the DPoP can partially mitigate some of this
risk, modifying the authentication mechanism to provide cryptographic binding between
authentication and DPoP could provide better protection. However, providing additional binding
with authentication through the modification of authentication mechanisms or other means is
beyond the scope of this specification.

12.  IANA Considerations

12.1.  OAuth Access Token Types Registration

IANA has registered the following access token type in the "OAuth Access Token Types" registry
[RFC6749]
[IANA.OAuth.Params]
.

 established by

Name:

DPoP

Additional Token Endpoint Response Parameters:

(none)

HTTP Authentication Scheme(s):

DPoP

Change Controller:

IETF

Reference:

RFC 9449

12.2.  OAuth Extensions Error Registration

IANA has registered the following error values in the "OAuth Extensions Error" registry
[IANA.OAuth.Params]

 established by

[RFC6749]
.

Invalid DPoP proof:

Name:

invalid_dpop_proof

Usage Location:

token error response, resource access error response

Protocol Extension:

Demonstrating Proof of Possession (DPoP)

Fett, et al.

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 9449

OAuth DPoP

September 2023

Change Controller:

IETF

Reference:

RFC 9449

Use DPoP nonce:

Name:

use_dpop_nonce

Usage Location:

token error response, resource access error response

Protocol Extension:

Demonstrating Proof of Possession (DPoP)

Change Controller:

IETF

Reference:

RFC 9449

12.3.  OAuth Parameters Registration

IANA has registered the following authorization request parameter in the "OAuth Parameters"
registry

[IANA.OAuth.Params]

 established by

[RFC6749]
.

Name:

dpop_jkt

Parameter Usage Location:

authorization request

Change Controller:

IETF

Reference:

Section 10 of RFC 9449

12.4.  HTTP Authentication Schemes Registration

IANA has registered the following scheme in the "HTTP Authentication Schemes" registry
[IANA.HTTP.AuthSchemes]

[RFC9110], Section 16.4.1
.

 established by

Authentication Scheme Name:

DPoP

Reference:

Section 7.1 of RFC 9449

12.5.  Media Type Registration

IANA has registered the application/dpop+jwt media type
registry
the content is a DPoP JWT.

 in the manner described in

[IANA.MediaTypes]

[RFC2046]

 in the "Media Types"
, which is used to indicate that

[RFC6838]

Type name:

application

Subtype name:

dpop+jwt

Required parameters:

n/a

Fett, et al.

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 9449

OAuth DPoP

September 2023

Optional parameters:

n/a

Encoding considerations:

binary. A DPoP JWT is a JWT; JWT values are encoded as a series of
base64url-encoded values (some of which may be the empty string) separated by period ('.')
characters.

Security considerations:

See Section 11 of RFC 9449

Interoperability considerations:

n/a

Published specification:

RFC 9449

Applications that use this media type:

Applications using RFC 9449 for application-level proof of

possession

Fragment identifier considerations:

n/a

Additional information:

File extension(s):
Macintosh file type code(s):

n/a

n/a

Person & email address to contact for further information:

Michael B. Jones,

michael_b_jones@hotmail.com

Intended usage:

COMMON

Restrictions on usage:

none

Author:

Michael B. Jones, michael_b_jones@hotmail.com

Change controller:

IETF

12.6.  JWT Confirmation Methods Registration

IANA has registered the following JWT cnf member value in the "JWT Confirmation Methods"
registry

 established by

[IANA.JWT]

[RFC7800]
.

Confirmation Method Value:

jkt

Confirmation Method Description:

JWK SHA-256 Thumbprint

Change Controller:

IETF

Reference:

Section 6 of RFC 9449

12.7.  JSON Web Token Claims Registration

IANA has registered the following Claims in the "JSON Web Token Claims" registry
established by

[RFC7519]
.

[IANA.JWT]

HTTP method:

Fett, et al.

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 9449

OAuth DPoP

September 2023

Claim Name:

htm

Claim Description:

The HTTP method of the request

Change Controller:

IETF

Reference:

Section 4.2 of RFC 9449

HTTP URI:

Claim Name:

htu

Claim Description:

The HTTP URI of the request (without query and fragment parts)

Change Controller:

IETF

Reference:

Section 4.2 of RFC 9449

Access token hash:

Claim Name:

ath

Claim Description:

The base64url-encoded SHA-256 hash of the ASCII encoding of the

associated access token's value

Change Controller:

IETF

Reference:

Section 4.2 of RFC 9449

12.7.1.  "nonce" Registration Update

The Internet Security Glossary
non-repeating value that is included in data exchanged by a protocol, usually for the purpose of
guaranteeing liveness and thus detecting and protecting against replay attacks.

 provides a useful definition of nonce as a random or

[RFC4949]

However, the initial registration of the nonce claim by
contextually specific to that application, which was potentially limiting to its general
applicability.

[OpenID.Core]

 used language that was

Therefore, IANA has updated the entry for nonce in the "JSON Web Token Claims" registry
[IANA.JWT]
other contexts and with the addition of this document as a reference, as follows.

 with an expanded definition to reflect that the claim can be used appropriately in

Claim Name:

nonce

Claim Description:

Value used to associate a Client session with an ID Token (

MAY

 also be used

for nonce values in other applications of JWTs)

Change Controller:

OpenID Foundation Artifact Binding Working Group, openid-specs-

ab@lists.openid.net

Fett, et al.

Standards Track

Page 33

RFC 9449

OAuth DPoP

September 2023

Specification Document(s):

Section 2 of [OpenID.Core]

 and RFC 9449

12.8.  Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) Field Name Registration

IANA has registered the following HTTP header fields, as specified by this document, in the
"Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) Field Name Registry"
[RFC9110]
:

[IANA.HTTP.Fields]

 established by

DPoP:

Field Name:

DPoP

Status:

permanent

Reference:

RFC 9449

DPoP-Nonce:

Field Name:

DPoP-Nonce

Status:

permanent

Reference:

RFC 9449

12.9.  OAuth Authorization Server Metadata Registration

IANA has registered the following value in the "OAuth Authorization Server Metadata" registry
[RFC8414]
[IANA.OAuth.Params]
.

 established by

Metadata Name:

dpop_signing_alg_values_supported

Metadata Description:

JSON array containing a list of the JWS algorithms supported for DPoP

proof JWTs

Change Controller:

IETF

Reference:

Section 5.1 of RFC 9449

12.10.  OAuth Dynamic Client Registration Metadata

IANA has registered the following value in the IANA "OAuth Dynamic Client Registration
Metadata" registry

[IANA.OAuth.Params]

 established by

[RFC7591]
.

Client Metadata Name:

dpop_bound_access_tokens

Client Metadata Description:

Boolean value specifying whether the client always uses DPoP for

token requests

Change Controller:

IETF

Fett, et al.

Standards Track

Page 34

RFC 9449

OAuth DPoP

September 2023

Reference: Section 5.2 of RFC 9449

13.  References

13.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC3986]

[RFC5234]

[RFC6125]

[RFC6749]

[RFC6750]

[RFC7515]

[RFC7517]

[RFC7519]

[RFC7638]

[RFC7800]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Berners-Lee, T. Fielding, R.
, and
Generic Syntax" STD 66 RFC 3986 DOI 10.17487/RFC3986
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3986>

,

,

,

.

L. Masinter "Uniform Resource Identifier (URI):

,

, January 2005,

Crocker, D., Ed.
 and
ABNF" STD 68 RFC 5234 DOI 10.17487/RFC5234
,
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5234>

,

.

P. Overell "Augmented BNF for Syntax Specifications:

,

, January 2008,

<https://

,

 and

J. Hodges "Representation and Verification of Domain-Based

Saint-Andre, P.
Application Service Identity within Internet Public Key Infrastructure Using X.
509 (PKIX) Certificates in the Context of Transport Layer Security (TLS)" RFC
6125 DOI 10.17487/RFC6125
,
rfc6125>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, March 2011,

,

.

Hardt, D., Ed. "The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework" RFC 6749 DOI
10.17487/RFC6749

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6749>

, October 2012,

,

,

,

.

 and

Jones, M.
Usage" RFC 6750 DOI 10.17487/RFC6750
editor.org/info/rfc6750>

,

,

,

.

D. Hardt "The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework: Bearer Token

, October 2012,

<https://www.rfc-

Jones, M. Bradley, J.
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC7515

N. Sakimura "JSON Web Signature (JWS)" RFC 7515
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7515>

, May 2015,

,

,

, and

,

Jones, M. "JSON Web Key (JWK)" RFC 7517 DOI 10.17487/RFC7517
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7517>

,

,

.

, May 2015,

Jones, M. Bradley, J.
,
10.17487/RFC7519

, and

N. Sakimura "JSON Web Token (JWT)" RFC 7519 DOI

,

,

,

, May 2015,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7519>

.

Jones, M.
10.17487/RFC7638

N. Sakimura "JSON Web Key (JWK) Thumbprint" RFC 7638 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7638>
.

,
, September 2015,

 and

,

,

Jones, M. Bradley, J.
,
JSON Web Tokens (JWTs)" RFC 7800 DOI 10.17487/RFC7800
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7800>

H. Tschofenig "Proof-of-Possession Key Semantics for
<https://
,

, April 2016,

, and

,

,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Fett, et al.

Standards Track

Page 35

RFC 9449

OAuth DPoP

September 2023

[SHS]

National Institute of Standards and Technology "Secure Hash Standard (SHS)"
FIPS PUB 180-4 DOI 10.6028/NIST.FIPS.180-4
10.6028/NIST.FIPS.180-4>

<http://dx.doi.org/

, August 2015,

.

,

,

,

13.2.  Informative References

[BREACH]

[Cloudbleed]

,

CVE "CVE-2013-3587" <https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?
,
name=CVE-2013-3587>

.

Graham-Cumming, J. "Incident report on memory leak caused by Cloudflare
parser bug"
<https://blog.cloudflare.com/incident-report-on-
memory-leak-caused-by-cloudflare-parser-bug/>

, February 2017,

,

.

[CRIME]

,

CVE "CVE-2012-4929" <https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?
,
name=cve-2012-4929>
.

[GitHub.Tokens]

Hanley, M. "Security alert: Attack campaign involving stolen OAuth user

,

tokens issued to two third-party integrators"
2022-04-15-security-alert-stolen-oauth-user-tokens/>

, April 2022,

.

<https://github.blog/

[Heartbleed]

"CVE-2014-0160" <https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?
name=cve-2014-0160>

,

.

[IANA.HTTP.AuthSchemes]

IANA "Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) Authentication Scheme

,

Registry" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/http-authschemes/>

,

.

[IANA.HTTP.Fields]

IANA "Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) Field Name Registry" <https://

,

,

www.iana.org/assignments/http-fields/>

.

[IANA.JOSE.ALGS]

IANA "JSON Web Signature and Encryption Algorithms" <https://

,

,

www.iana.org/assignments/jose/>

.

[IANA.JWT]

IANA "JSON Web Token Claims" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/jwt/>

,

,

.

[IANA.MediaTypes]

IANA "Media Types" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/media-types/>

,

,

.

[IANA.OAuth.Params]

IANA "OAuth Parameters" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/oauth-

,

parameters/>

,
.

[OpenID.Core]

[RFC2046]

[RFC4122]

,

Sakimura, N. Bradley, J. Jones, M. de Medeiros, B.
,
Connect Core 1.0 incorporating errata set 1"
openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html>

, and
, November 2014,

,

.

C. Mortimore "OpenID

,
<https://

 and

Freed, N.
,
Part Two: Media Types" RFC 2046 DOI 10.17487/RFC2046
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2046>

N. Borenstein "Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME)
, November 1996,

,

,

.

,

Leach, P. Mealling, M.
, and
Namespace" RFC 4122 DOI 10.17487/RFC4122
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc4122>

.

R. Salz "A Universally Unique IDentifier (UUID) URN

,

, July 2005,

<https://www.rfc-

Fett, et al.

Standards Track

Page 36

RFC 9449

OAuth DPoP

September 2023

[RFC4949]

[RFC6838]

[RFC7523]

[RFC7591]

[RFC7636]

[RFC7662]

[RFC8414]

[RFC8705]

[RFC8707]

[RFC8725]

[RFC8792]

[RFC9110]

[RFC9126]

Shirey, R. "Internet Security Glossary, Version 2" FYI 36 RFC 4949 DOI
,
10.17487/RFC4949

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4949>

, August 2007,

,

,

,

.

Freed, N. Klensin, J.
,
Procedures" BCP 13 RFC 6838 DOI 10.17487/RFC6838
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6838>

, and
,

,

,

.

T. Hansen "Media Type Specifications and Registration

,

, January 2013,

<https://

,

Jones, M. Campbell, B.
OAuth 2.0 Client Authentication and Authorization Grants" RFC 7523 DOI
10.17487/RFC7523

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7523>

C. Mortimore "JSON Web Token (JWT) Profile for

, May 2015,

, and

,

,

.

,

Richer, J., Ed. Jones, M. Bradley, J. Machulak, M.
, and
,
Dynamic Client Registration Protocol" RFC 7591 DOI 10.17487/RFC7591
,
2015,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7591>

P. Hunt "OAuth 2.0

,

,

,

.

, July

,

Sakimura, N., Ed. Bradley, J.
OAuth Public Clients" RFC 7636 DOI 10.17487/RFC7636
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7636>

, and
,

,

.

N. Agarwal "Proof Key for Code Exchange by

,

, September 2015,

Richer, J., Ed. "OAuth 2.0 Token Introspection" RFC 7662 DOI 10.17487/RFC7662
,
,
October 2015,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7662>

,
.

,

,

Jones, M. Sakimura, N.
Metadata" RFC 8414 DOI 10.17487/RFC8414
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc8414>

, and

.

J. Bradley "OAuth 2.0 Authorization Server
, June 2018,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

Campbell, B. Bradley, J. Sakimura, N.
, and
TLS Client Authentication and Certificate-Bound Access Tokens" RFC 8705 DOI
10.17487/RFC8705

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8705>

T. Lodderstedt "OAuth 2.0 Mutual-

, February 2020,

,

,

,

.

,

Campbell, B. Bradley, J.
RFC 8707 DOI 10.17487/RFC8707
info/rfc8707>

, and

,

.

H. Tschofenig "Resource Indicators for OAuth 2.0"

,

,

, February 2020,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

Sheffer, Y. Hardt, D.
,
BCP 225 RFC 8725 DOI 10.17487/RFC8725
,
editor.org/info/rfc8725>

, and

,

,

.

M. Jones "JSON Web Token Best Current Practices"
<https://www.rfc-
, February 2020,

,

,

Watsen, K. Auerswald, E. Farrel, A.
Content of Internet-Drafts and RFCs" RFC 8792 DOI 10.17487/RFC8792
2020,

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8792>
.

Q. Wu "Handling Long Lines in

, and
,

,

, June

,

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
97 RFC 9110 DOI 10.17487/RFC9110
rfc9110>

,

,

.

, and
, June 2022,

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP Semantics" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

,

Lodderstedt, T. Campbell, B. Sakimura, N. Tonge, D.
Pushed Authorization Requests" RFC 9126 DOI 10.17487/RFC9126
,
2021,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9126>

, and

,
,

,

.

F. Skokan "OAuth 2.0
,

, September

Fett, et al.

Standards Track

Page 37

RFC 9449

OAuth DPoP

September 2023

[SECURITY-TOPICS]

Lodderstedt, T. Bradley, J. Labunets, A.

,

, and

D. Fett "OAuth 2.0 Security

,

Best Current Practice" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-oauth-
security-topics-23
oauth-security-topics-23>

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-

, 5 June 2023,

.

,

[TOKEN-BINDING]

Jones, M. Campbell, B. Bradley, J.

,

, and

W. Denniss "OAuth 2.0 Token

,

,

Binding" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-oauth-token-binding-08
October 2018,
binding-08>

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-token-

.

, 19

,
,

,
,

[W3C.CSP]

,

West, M. "Content Security Policy Level 3" W3C Working Draft
<https://www.w3.org/TR/CSP3/>
.

,

, July 2023,

[W3C.WebCryptoAPI]
2017,

Watson, M. "Web Cryptography API" W3C Recommendation

,

,

, January

<https://www.w3.org/TR/2017/REC-WebCryptoAPI-20170126>

.

[WHATWG.Fetch]

WHATWG "Fetch Living Standard"

,

, July 2023,

<https://

fetch.spec.whatwg.org/>

.

Acknowledgements

,

,

,

,
,

Brock Allen Annabelle Backman Dominick Baier Spencer Balogh
,

We would like to thank
Vittorio Bertocci Jeff Corrigan Domingos Creado Philippe De Ryck Andrii Deinega William
,
Denniss Vladimir Dzhuvinov Mike Engan Nikos Fotiou Mark Haine Dick Hardt Joseph Heenan
,
Bjorn Hjelm Jacob Ideskog Jared Jennings Benjamin Kaduk Pieter Kasselman Neil Madden
Rohan Mahy Karsten Meyer zu Selhausen Nicolas Mora Steinar Noem Mark Nottingham Rob
,
Otto Aaron Parecki Michael Peck Roberto Polli Paul Querna Justin Richer Joseph Salowey
,
Rifaat Shekh-Yusef Filip Skokan Dmitry Telegin Dave Tonge Jim Willeke
,
valuable input, feedback, and general support of this work.

, and others for their

,
,
,

,
,

,
,

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

This document originated from discussions at the 4th OAuth Security Workshop in Stuttgart,
Germany. We thank the organizers of this workshop (

Guido Schmitz

Ralf Küsters

 and

).

Authors' Addresses

Daniel Fett
Authlete
Email:

 mail@danielfett.de

Brian Campbell
Ping Identity
Email:

 bcampbell@pingidentity.com

John Bradley
Yubico
Email:

 ve7jtb@ve7jtb.com

Fett, et al.

Standards Track

Page 38

RFC 9449

OAuth DPoP

September 2023

Torsten Lodderstedt
Tuconic
Email:

 torsten@lodderstedt.net

Michael Jones
Self-Issued Consulting
Email:
URI:

 https://self-issued.info/

 michael_b_jones@hotmail.com

David Waite
Ping Identity
Email:

 david@alkaline-solutions.com

Fett, et al.

Standards Track

Page 39

