Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9536
Standards Track
April 2024
2070-1721
M. Loffredo
IIT-CNR/Registro.it

M. Martinelli
IIT-CNR/Registro.it

RFC 9536
Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP) Reverse
Search

Abstract

The Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP) does not include query capabilities for finding the
list of domains related to a set of entities matching a given search pattern. Considering that an
RDAP entity can be associated with any defined object class and other relationships between
RDAP object classes exist, a reverse search can be applied to other use cases besides the classic
domain-entity scenario. This document describes an RDAP extension that allows servers to
provide a reverse search feature based on the relationship defined in RDAP between an object
class for search and any related object class. The reverse search based on the domain-entity
relationship is treated as a particular case.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9536
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Loffredo & Martinelli

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9536

RDAP Reverse Search

April 2024

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Background

1.2.  Conventions Used in This Document

2.  Reverse Search Path Segment Specification

3.  Reverse Search Definition

4.  Reverse Search Properties Discovery

5.  Reverse Search Properties Mapping

6.  Reverse Search Response Specification

7.  Reverse Search Query Processing

8.  Reverse Searches Based on Entity Details

9.  RDAP Conformance

10. Implementation Considerations

11. IANA Considerations

11.1.  RDAP Extensions Registry

11.2.  RDAP Reverse Search Registries

11.2.1.  Creation of the RDAP Reverse Search Registries

11.2.2.  Submit Requests to IANA

11.2.3.  RDAP Reverse Search Registry

11.2.3.1.  Template

11.2.3.2.  Initial Content

11.2.4.  RDAP Reverse Search Mapping Registry

11.2.4.1.  Template

11.2.4.2.  Initial Content

12. Privacy Considerations

3

3

4

4

5

5

6

6

7

7

10

10

10

10

11

11

11

11

11

12

12

12

13

13

Loffredo & Martinelli

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9536

RDAP Reverse Search

April 2024

13. Security Considerations

14. References

14.1.  Normative References

14.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Paradigms to Enforce Access Control on Reverse Search in RDAP

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

14

14

14

15

16

17

17

The protocol described in this specification aims to extend the RDAP query capabilities and
response to enable reverse search based on the relationships defined in RDAP between an object
class for search and a related object class. The reverse search based on the domain-entity
relationship is treated as a particular case of such a generic model.

RDAP providers willing to implement this specification should carefully consider its implications
on the efficiency (see Section 10), the security (see Section 13), and the compliance with privacy
regulations (see Section 12) of their RDAP service.

1.1.  Background

Reverse WHOIS is a service provided by many web applications that allows users to find domain
names owned by an individual or a company starting from the owner's details, such as name and
email. Even if it has been considered useful for some legal purposes (e.g., uncovering trademark
[RFC3912]
infringements and detecting cybercrimes), its availability as a standardized WHOIS
capability has been objected to for two main reasons, which now don't seem to conflict with an
RDAP implementation.

 that provide access to sensitive data under some permissible purposes and in

The first objection concerns the potential risks of privacy violation. However, the domain name
community is considering a new generation of Registration Directory Services
[ICANN-RA]
accordance with appropriate policies for requestor accreditation, authentication, and
authorization. RDAP's reliance on HTTP means that it can make use of common HTTP-based
approaches to authentication and authorization, making it more useful than WHOIS in the
context of such directory services. Since RDAP consequently permits a reverse search
implementation complying with privacy protection principles, this first objection is not well-
founded.

[ICANN-RDS]

The second objection to the implementation of a reverse search capability has been connected
with its impact on server processing. However, the core RDAP specifications already define
search queries, with similar processing requirements, so the basis of this objection is not clear.

Loffredo & Martinelli

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9536

RDAP Reverse Search

April 2024

Reverse searches, such as finding the list of domain names associated with contacts or
nameservers, may be useful to registrars as well. Usually, registries adopt out-of-band solutions
to provide results to registrars asking for reverse searches on their domains. Possible reasons for
such requests are:

•

the loss of synchronization between the registrar database and the registry database and

•

the need for such data to perform bulk Extensible Provisioning Protocol (EPP)
updates (e.g., changing the contacts of a set of domains, etc.).

[RFC5730]

[RFC9082]

Currently, RDAP does not provide any means for a client to search for the collection of domains
associated with an entity
. A query (lookup or search) on domains can return the array
of entities related to a domain with different roles (registrant, registrar, administrative, technical,
reseller, etc.), but the reverse operation is not allowed. Only reverse searches to find the
collection of domains related to a nameserver (ldhName or ip) can be requested. Since an entity
can be in relationship with any RDAP object
largely intended can be common to all the object classes allowed for search. Through a further
step of generalization, the meaning of reverse search in the RDAP context can be extended to
include any query for retrieving all the objects that relates to another query matching a given
search pattern.

, the availability of a reverse search as

[RFC9083]

1.2.  Conventions Used in This Document

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Reverse Search Path Segment Specification

A generic reverse search path is described by the syntax:

{searchable-resource-type}/reverse_search/{related-resource-type}?<search-condition>

The path segments are defined as follows:

"searchable-resource-type":

Section
 (i.e., "domains", "nameservers", and "entities") or a resource type extension.

 be one of the resource types for search defined in

MUST

It

3.2 of [RFC9082]

"related-resource-type":

It

MUST

 be one of the resource types for lookup defined in

Section 3.1

of [RFC9082]
extension.

 (i.e., "domain", "nameserver", "entity", "ip", and "autnum") or a resource type

"search-condition":

A sequence of "property=search pattern" predicates separated by the

ampersand character ('&', US-ASCII value 0x0026).

Loffredo & Martinelli

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9536

RDAP Reverse Search

April 2024

While related-resource-type is defined as having one of a number of different values, the only
reverse searches defined in this document are for a related-resource-type of "entity". Reverse
searches for the other resource types specified in
defined by future documents.

 and resource type extensions may be

[RFC9082]

3.  Reverse Search Definition

Based on the content of Section 2, defining a reverse search means to define the triple
<searchable resource type, related resource type, property> and the mapping with the
corresponding RDAP object member. The mapping is done through the use of a JSONPath
expression
Section 11.2.3), whereas reverse search mappings are registered in the "RDAP Reverse Search
Mapping" registry (see Section 11.2.4). The reason for having two registries is that it may be
possible for a single type of reverse search to rely on different members, depending on the
server's configuration (see Section 5).

. Reverse searches are registered in the "RDAP Reverse Search" registry (see

[RFC9535]

All of the reverse searches defined by this document (see Section 8) have property names that are
the same as the name of the RDAP object member that is the subject of the search. For example,
the reverse search with the property name "fn" relies on the value of the "fn" member inside the
jCard of an entity object. However, it is not necessary that these two names be the same. In
particular, remapping of searches as part of the deprecation of an existing member (see Section
5) will typically lead to a member with a different name being used for the search.

Servers
MUST NOT
not registered with IANA.

 provide or implement reverse searches or reverse search mappings that are

4.  Reverse Search Properties Discovery

Servers complying with this specification
MUST
"reverse_search_properties" member that contains an array of objects with the following
mandatory child members:

 extend the help response

[RFC9083]

 with the

"searchableResourceType":

the searchable resource type of the reverse search query, as defined

in Section 2

"relatedResourceType":

the related resource type of the reverse search query, as defined in

Section 2

"property":

the reverse search property used in the predicate of the reverse search query, as

defined in Section 2

An example of the help response including the "reverse_search_properties" member is shown in
Figure 2

Loffredo & Martinelli

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9536

RDAP Reverse Search

April 2024

5.  Reverse Search Properties Mapping

To permit clients to determine the member used by the server for a reverse search, servers
detail the mapping that is occurring by adding the "reverse_search_properties_mapping"
member to the topmost object of a reverse search response. This data structure is included in the
search response, rather than in the help response, because it may differ depending on the query
that is sent to the server.

MUST

Documents that deprecate or restructure RDAP responses such that a registered reverse search is
no longer able to be used
 either note that the relevant reverse search is no longer available
(in the case of deprecation) or describe how to continue supporting the relevant search by
adding another mapping for the reverse search property (in the case of restructuring).

MUST

The "reverse_search_properties_mapping" member contains an array of objects with the
following mandatory child members:

"property":

the reverse search property used in the predicate of the current query, as defined in

Section 2

"propertyPath":

the JSONPath expression of the object member (or members) corresponding to

the reverse search property

The searchable and the related resource types are derived from the query, so there is no need to
include them in addition to the property in this member.

MUST

 be included for all properties used in the search, regardless of whether that
This member
property has multiple registered mappings as at the time of the search, because new mappings
may be registered at any time.

When applied to an object, the JSONPath expression
is a JSON number or string.

MUST

 produce a list of values, each of which

An example of a reverse search response including the "reverse_search_properties_mapping"
member is shown in Figure 3.

6.  Reverse Search Response Specification

Reverse search responses use the formats defined in
the searchable resource types defined in Section 2.

Section 8 of [RFC9083]

, which correspond to

Loffredo & Martinelli

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9536

RDAP Reverse Search

April 2024

7.  Reverse Search Query Processing

To process a reverse search, the server returns the objects from its data store that are of type
searchable-resource-type and that match each of the predicates from the search conditions. To
determine whether an object matches a predicate, the server:

•

applies the mapping it uses for the reverse search property to the object in order to generate
a list of values, each of which

 be a JSON number or string and

MUST

•

checks whether the search pattern matches one or more of those values.

A search pattern matches a value where it equals the string representation of the value or where
it is a match for the value in accordance with the partial string matching behavior defined in
Section 4.1 of [RFC9082]
.

Objects are only included in the search results if they satisfy all included predicates. This
includes predicates that are for the same property; in such a case, it is necessary for the related
object to match against each of those predicates.

MUST

Servers
unsupported reverse searches.

 return an HTTP 501 (Not Implemented)

[RFC9110]

 response to inform clients of

Based on their policy, servers
condition by returning a 400 (Bad Request) response when a problematic request is received.

 restrict how predicates are used to make a valid search

MAY

A given reverse search or reverse search mapping
behavior past that set out in this section.

MAY

 define additional or alternative search

8.  Reverse Searches Based on Entity Details

Since an entity can be associated with any other object class in RDAP, the most common kind of
reverse search is one based on an entity's details. Such reverse searches arise from the query
model by setting the related resource type to "entity".

By selecting a specific searchable resource type, the resulting reverse search aims at retrieving
all the objects (e.g., all the domains) that are related to any entity object matching the search
conditions.

This section defines the reverse search properties servers
nameserver, entity-searchable resource types, and entity-related resource type:

SHOULD

 support for the domain,

Reverse search property:
RDAP member path:
Reference:

$.entities[*].roles
Section 10.2.4 of [RFC9083]

role

Reverse search property:

handle

Loffredo & Martinelli

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9536

RDAP Reverse Search

April 2024

RDAP member path:
Reference:

Section 5.1 of [RFC9083]

$.entities[*].handle

Reverse search property:
RDAP member path:
Reference:

fn

Section 6.2.1 of [RFC6350]

$.entities[*].vcardArray[1][?(@[0]=='fn')][3]

Reverse search property:
RDAP member path:
Reference:

Section 6.4.2 of [RFC6350]

email

$.entities[*].vcardArray[1][?(@[0]=='email')][3]

The presence of a predicate on the reverse search property "role" means that the RDAP response
property "roles"

 contain at least the specified role.

MUST

The last two properties are related to jCard elements
vCard

, since jCard is the JSON format for vCard.

[RFC6350]

[RFC7095]

, but the field references are to

Examples of reverse search paths based on the domain-entity relationship are presented in
Figure 1.

 /domains/reverse_search/entity?handle=CID-40*&role=technical

 /domains/reverse_search/entity?fn=Bobby*&role=registrant

 /domains/reverse_search/entity?handle=RegistrarX&role=registrar

Figure 1: Examples of Reverse Search Queries

An example of the help response including the supported reverse search properties is shown in
Figure 2.

Loffredo & Martinelli

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9536

RDAP Reverse Search

April 2024

   {
     "rdapConformance": [
       "rdap_level_0",
       "reverse_search"
     ],
     ...
     "reverse_search_properties": [
       {
         "searchableResourceType": "domains",
         "relatedResourceType": "entity",
         "property": "fn"
       },
       {
         "searchableResourceType": "domains",
         "relatedResourceType": "entity",
         "property": "handle"
       },
       {
         "searchableResourceType": "domains",
         "relatedResourceType": "entity",
         "property": "email"
       },
       {
         "searchableResourceType": "domains",
         "relatedResourceType": "entity",
         "property": "role"
       }
     ],
     ...
   }

Figure 2: An Example of the Help Response including the "reverse_search_properties" Member

An example of a response including the mapping that is occurring for the first reverse search in
Figure 1 is shown below.

Loffredo & Martinelli

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9536

RDAP Reverse Search

April 2024

   {
     "rdapConformance": [
       "rdap_level_0",
       "reverse_search"
     ],
     ...
     "reverse_search_properties_mapping": [
       {
         "property": "handle",
         "propertyPath": "$.entities[*].handle"
       },
       {
         "property": "role",
         "propertyPath": "$.entities[*].roles"
       }
     ],
     ...
   }

Figure 3: An Example of an RDAP Response including the "reverse_search_properties_mapping"
Member

9.  RDAP Conformance

Servers complying with this specification
 and any other response including the
rdapConformance property of the help response
"reverse_search_properties_mapping" member. The information needed to register this value in
the "RDAP Extensions" registry is described in Section 11.1.

 include the value "reverse_search" in the

[RFC9083]

MUST

10.  Implementation Considerations

To limit the impact of processing the search predicates, servers are
of techniques to speed up the data retrieval in their underlying data store, such as indexes or
similar. In addition, risks with respect to performance degradation or result set generation can
be mitigated by adopting practices used for standard searches, e.g., restricting the search
functionality, limiting the rate of search requests according to the user's authorization,
[RFC8982]
.
truncating and paging the results

, and returning partial responses

RECOMMENDED

[RFC8977]

 to make use

11.  IANA Considerations

11.1.  RDAP Extensions Registry

IANA has registered the following value in the "RDAP Extensions" registry:

Extension Identifier:

reverse_search

Registry Operator:

Any

Loffredo & Martinelli

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9536

RDAP Reverse Search

April 2024

Specification:

RFC 9536

Contact:

IETF <iesg@ietf.org>

Intended Usage:

This extension identifier is used for both URI path segments and response

extensions related to the reverse search in RDAP.

11.2.  RDAP Reverse Search Registries

11.2.1.  Creation of the RDAP Reverse Search Registries

IANA has created the "RDAP Reverse Search" and "RDAP Reverse Search Mapping" registries
within the "Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP)" category in the protocol registries.

These registries follow the Specification Required registration policy, as defined in
[RFC8126]
.

Section 4.6 of

The designated expert should prevent collisions and confirm that suitable documentation, as
described in

, is available to ensure interoperability.

Section 4.5 of [RFC8126]

Creators of either new RDAP reverse searches or new mappings for registered reverse searches
 replicate functionality already available by way of other documents referenced in
SHOULD NOT
these registries. Creators
properties, but they
with a meaning other than that of the response fields referenced by the mappings already
registered for that property. In other words, all the mappings for a reverse search property
point to response fields with the same meaning.

 map a registered reverse search property to a response field

 register additional reverse search mappings for existing

SHOULD NOT

MAY

MUST

11.2.2.  Submit Requests to IANA

Registration requests can be sent to <iana@iana.org>.

11.2.3.  RDAP Reverse Search Registry

11.2.3.1.  Template

Property:

The name of the reverse search property.

Description:

A brief human-readable text describing the reverse search property.

Searchable Resource Type:

The searchable resource type of the reverse search query (Section 2)

including the reverse search property. Multiple reverse search properties differing only by
this field can be grouped together by listing all the searchable resource types separated by
comma (see Section 11.2.3.2).

Related Resource Type:

The related resource type of the reverse search query (Section 2)

including the reverse search property.

Registrant:

The name of the person registering the reverse search property.

Loffredo & Martinelli

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9536

RDAP Reverse Search

April 2024

Contact Information:

An email address, postal address, or some other information to be used to

contact the registrant.

Reference:

Document (e.g., the RFC number) and section reference where the reverse search

property is specified.

The combination of Searchable Resource Type, Related Resource Type, and Property
unique across the registry entries.

MUST

 be

11.2.3.2.  Initial Content

IANA has registered the following entries in the "RDAP Reverse Search" registry. For all entries,
the common values are shown in Table 1, whereas the specific values are shown in Table 2.

Registry Property

Value

Searchable Resource Type

domains, nameservers, entities

Related Resource Type

entity

Registrant

IETF

Contact Information

iesg@ietf.org

Reference

RFC 9536

Table 1: Common Values for All Entries in the RDAP Reverse
Search Registry

Property Description

fn

The server supports the domain/nameserver/entity search based on the full
name (a.k.a. formatted name) of an associated entity

handle

The server supports the domain/nameserver/entity search based on the handle
of an associated entity

email

role

The server supports the domain/nameserver/entity search based on the email
address of an associated entity

The server supports the domain/nameserver/entity search based on the role of
an associated entity

Table 2: Specific Values for Entries in the RDAP Reverse Search Registry

11.2.4.  RDAP Reverse Search Mapping Registry

11.2.4.1.  Template

Property:

The same as defined in the "RDAP Reverse Search" registry.

Loffredo & Martinelli

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9536

RDAP Reverse Search

April 2024

Property Path:

The JSONPath of the RDAP property this reverse search property maps to.

Searchable Resource Type:

The same as defined in the "RDAP Reverse Search" registry.

Related Resource Type:

The same as defined in the "RDAP Reverse Search" registry.

Registrant:

The name of the person registering this reverse search property mapping.

Contact Information:

The same as defined in the "RDAP Reverse Search" registry.

Reference:

Document (e.g., the RFC number) and section reference where this reverse search

property mapping is specified.

The combination of Searchable Resource Type, Related Resource Type, Property, and Property
Path

 be unique across the registry entries.

MUST

11.2.4.2.  Initial Content

IANA has registered the following entries in the "RDAP Reverse Search Mapping" registry. For all
entries, the common values are the same as defined in the "RDAP Reverse Search" registry (see
Table 1), whereas the specific values are shown below (see Table 3).

Property

Property Path

fn

$.entities[*].vcardArray[1][?(@[0]=='fn')][3]

handle

$.entities[*].handle

email

$.entities[*].vcardArray[1][?(@[0]=='email')][3]

role

$.entities[*].roles

Table 3: Specific Values for Entries in the RDAP Reverse Search
Mapping Registry

12.  Privacy Considerations

The search functionality defined in this document may affect the privacy of entities in the
registry (and elsewhere) in various ways; see
 for a general treatment of privacy in
protocol specifications. Registry operators should be aware of the trade-offs that result from
implementing this functionality.

[RFC6973]

Many jurisdictions have laws or regulations that restrict the use of "personal data", per the
definition in
. Given that, registry operators should ascertain whether the regulatory
environment in which they operate permits implementation of the functionality defined in this
document.

[RFC6973]

In those cases where this functionality makes use of sensitive information, the information
only be accessible to authorized users under a lawful basis.

MUST

Loffredo & Martinelli

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9536

RDAP Reverse Search

April 2024

Since reverse search requests and responses could contain Personally Identifiable Information
(PII), reverse search functionality

 be available over HTTPS only.

MUST

Providing reverse search in RDAP carries the following threats as described in

[RFC6973]
:

•

Correlation

•

Disclosure

•

Misuse of data

Therefore, RDAP providers need to mitigate the risk of those threats by implementing
appropriate measures supported by security services (see Section 13).

13.  Security Considerations

Security services that are required to provide controlled access to the operations specified in this
. A non-exhaustive list of access control paradigms an RDAP
document are described in
provider can implement is presented in Appendix A.

[RFC7481]

As an additional measure to enforce security by preventing reverse searches to be accessed from
unauthorized users, the RDAP providers may consider physically separating the reverse search
endpoints from the other ones by configuring a proxy routing the reverse searches to a dedicated
backend server and leveraging further security services offered by other protocol layers, such as
digital certificates and IP allow-listing.

Finally, the specification of the relationship within the reverse search path allows the RDAP
servers to implement different authorization policies on a per-relationship basis.

14.  References

14.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC6350]

[RFC7095]

[RFC7481]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Perreault, S. "vCard Format Specification" RFC 6350 DOI 10.17487/RFC6350
,
August 2011,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6350>

.

,

,

Kewisch, P. "jCard: The JSON Format for vCard" RFC 7095 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7095

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7095>

, January 2014,

,

,

,

.

Hollenbeck, S.
 and
Protocol (RDAP)" STD 95 RFC 7481 DOI 10.17487/RFC7481
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7481>

,

,

.

N. Kong "Security Services for the Registration Data Access

,

, March 2015,

<https://

Loffredo & Martinelli

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9536

RDAP Reverse Search

April 2024

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

[RFC9082]

[RFC9083]

[RFC9110]

[RFC9535]

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

, June

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Hollenbeck, S.
Format" STD 95 RFC 9082 DOI 10.17487/RFC9082
editor.org/info/rfc9082>
.

A. Newton "Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP) Query
<https://www.rfc-

, June 2021,

 and
,

,

,

,

Hollenbeck, S.
,
 and
Protocol (RDAP)" STD 95 RFC 9083 DOI 10.17487/RFC9083
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9083>

,

,

.

A. Newton "JSON Responses for the Registration Data Access

, June 2021,

<https://

,

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
97 RFC 9110 DOI 10.17487/RFC9110
rfc9110>

,

,

.

, and
, June 2022,

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP Semantics" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

,

Gössner, S., Ed. Normington, G., Ed.
Expressions for JSON" RFC 9535 DOI 10.17487/RFC9535
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9535>
.

, and

,

C. Bormann, Ed. "JSONPath: Query
,

, February 2024,

<https://

14.2.  Informative References

[ICANN-RA]

[ICANN-RDS]

[OIDCC]

[RFC3912]

[RFC5730]

[RFC6973]

[RFC8977]

,

ICANN "Base Registry Agreement"
registry-agreements/base-agreement>

.

, January 2024,

<https://www.icann.org/en/

,

ICANN "Final Report from the Expert Working Group on gTLD Directory
Services: A Next-Generation Registration Directory Service (RDS)"
<https://www.icann.org/en/system/files/files/final-report-06jun14-en.pdf>

.

, June 2014,

,

Sakimura, N. Bradley, J. Jones, M. de Medeiros, B.
,
Connect Core 1.0 incorporating errata set 2"
specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html>

,

.

, and
, December 2023,

C. Mortimore "OpenID

,
<http://openid.net/

Daigle, L. "WHOIS Protocol Specification" RFC 3912 DOI 10.17487/RFC3912
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3912>
September 2004,

.

,

,

,

,

Hollenbeck, S. "Extensible Provisioning Protocol (EPP)" STD 69 RFC 5730 DOI
10.17487/RFC5730

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5730>

, August 2009,

,
.

,

,

,

,

Cooper, A. Tschofenig, H. Aboba, B. Peterson, J. Morris, J. Hansen, M.
R.
Smith "Privacy Considerations for Internet Protocols" RFC 6973 DOI 10.17487/
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6973>
RFC6973

, July 2013,

, and

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

.

Loffredo, M. Martinelli, M.
,
Protocol (RDAP) Query Parameters for Result Sorting and Paging" RFC 8977 DOI
10.17487/RFC8977

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8977>

S. Hollenbeck "Registration Data Access

, January 2021,

, and

,

,

,

.

Loffredo & Martinelli

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9536

RDAP Reverse Search

April 2024

[RFC8982]

M. Martinelli "Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP) Partial

,

 and

Loffredo, M.
Response" RFC 8982 DOI 10.17487/RFC8982
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc8982>

.

, February 2021,

<https://www.rfc-

Appendix A.  Paradigms to Enforce Access Control on Reverse
Search in RDAP

Access control can be implemented according to different paradigms introducing increasingly
stringent rules. The paradigms listed below leverage the capabilities that are either built in or
provided as extensions by the OpenID Connect

[OIDCC]
:

Role-Based Access Control (RBAC):

Access rights are granted depending on roles. Generally, this
is done by grouping users into fixed categories and assigning static grants to each category. A
more dynamic approach can be implemented by using the OpenID Connect "scope" claim.

Purpose-Based Access Control (PBAC):

Access rules are based on the notion of purpose, being

the intended use of some data by a user. It can be implemented by tagging a request with the
usage purpose and making the RDAP server check the compliance between the given purpose
and the control rules applied to the data to be returned.

Attribute-Based Access Control (ABAC):

Rules to manage access rights are evaluated and applied
according to specific attributes describing the context within which data are requested. It can
be implemented within an out-of-band process by setting additional OpenID Connect claims
that describe the request context and make the RDAP server check for compliance between
the given context and the control rules that are applied to the data to be returned.

Time-Based Access Control (TBAC):

Data access is allowed for a limited time only. It can be

implemented by assigning users temporary credentials linked to access grants with limited
scopes.

With regard to the privacy threats reported in Section 12, correlation and disclosure can be
mitigated by minimizing both the request features and the response data based on user roles
(i.e., RBAC). Misuse can be mitigated by checking for the purpose of the request (i.e., PBAC). It can
be accomplished according to the following approaches:

Full Trust:

The registry trusts the fairness of an accredited user. The requestor is always
legitimized to submit their requests under a lawful basis. Additionally, they can be required to
specify the purpose as either a claim of their account or a query parameter. In the former
case, the purpose is assumed to be the same for every request. In the latter case, the purpose
must be one of those associated to the user.

Zero Trust:

The registry requires documents that assess whether the requestor is legitimized to

submit a given request. It can be implemented by assigning the requestor a temporary
OpenID account linked to the given request (i.e., TBAC) and describing the request through a
set of claims (i.e., ABAC). The association between the temporary account and the claims

Loffredo & Martinelli

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9536

RDAP Reverse Search

April 2024

about the request is made by an out-of-band application. In so doing, the RDAP server is able
to check that the incoming request is consistent with the request claims linked to the
temporary account.

The two approaches can be used together:

•

The former is suitable for users carrying out a task in the public interest or exercising their
official authority (e.g., an officer of a cybercrime agency). Similarly, registrars can submit
reverse searches on their domains and contacts based on their contractual relationship with
the domain holders. In this case, the query results can be restricted to those pertaining to a
registrar by adding an implicit predicate to the search condition.

•

The latter can be taken to allow domain name dispute resolution service providers to request
information in defense of the legitimate interests of complainants.

Acknowledgements

The authors would like to acknowledge the following individuals for their contributions to this
document:
,
Alvarez Ulrich Wisser James Gould

Francesco Donini Scott Hollenbeck Francisco Arias Gustavo Lozano Eduardo

Pawel Kowalik
.

, and

,

,

,

,

,

Tom Harrison
implementation of this proposal. Their contributions have been greatly appreciated.

 provided relevant feedback and constant support to the

Jasdip Singh

 and

Authors' Addresses

Mario Loffredo
IIT-CNR/Registro.it
Via Moruzzi,1
56124 Pisa
Italy
Email:
URI:

 mario.loffredo@iit.cnr.it

 http://www.iit.cnr.it

Maurizio Martinelli
IIT-CNR/Registro.it
Via Moruzzi,1
56124 Pisa
Italy
Email:
URI:

 http://www.iit.cnr.it

 maurizio.martinelli@iit.cnr.it

Loffredo & Martinelli

Standards Track

Page 17

