Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9250
Standards Track
May 2022
2070-1721
C. Huitema
Private Octopus Inc.

S. Dickinson
Sinodun IT

A. Mankin
Salesforce

RFC 9250
DNS over Dedicated QUIC Connections

Abstract

This document describes the use of QUIC to provide transport conﬁdentiality for DNS. The
encryption provided by QUIC has similar properties to those provided by TLS, while QUIC
transport eliminates the head-of-line blocking issues inherent with TCP and provides more
eﬃcient packet-loss recovery than UDP. DNS over QUIC (DoQ) has privacy properties similar to
DNS over TLS (DoT) speciﬁed in RFC 7858, and latency characteristics similar to classic DNS over
UDP. This speciﬁcation describes the use of DoQ as a general-purpose transport for DNS and
includes the use of DoQ for stub to recursive, recursive to authoritative, and zone transfer
scenarios.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9250
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Huitema, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9250

DNS over Dedicated QUIC

May 2022

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Key Words

3.  Design Considerations

3.1.  Provide DNS Privacy

3.2.  Design for Minimum Latency

3.3.  Middlebox Considerations

3.4.  No Server-Initiated Transactions

4.  Speciﬁcations

4.1.  Connection Establishment

4.1.1.  Port Selection

4.2.  Stream Mapping and Usage

4.2.1.  DNS Message IDs

4.3.  DoQ Error Codes

4.3.1.  Transaction Cancellation

4.3.2.  Transaction Errors

4.3.3.  Protocol Errors

4.3.4.  Alternative Error Codes

4.4.  Connection Management

4.5.  Session Resumption and 0-RTT

4.6.  Message Sizes

5.  Implementation Requirements

5.1.  Authentication

5.2.  Fallback to Other Protocols on Connection Failure

5.3.  Address Validation

5.4.  Padding

Huitema, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9250

DNS over Dedicated QUIC

May 2022

5.5.  Connection Handling

5.5.1.  Connection Reuse

5.5.2.  Resource Management

5.5.3.  Using 0-RTT and Session Resumption

5.5.4.  Controlling Connection Migration for Privacy

5.6.  Processing Queries in Parallel

5.7.  Zone Transfer

5.8.  Flow Control Mechanisms

6.  Security Considerations

7.  Privacy Considerations

7.1.  Privacy Issues with 0-RTT data

7.2.  Privacy Issues with Session Resumption

7.3.  Privacy Issues with Address Validation Tokens

7.4.  Privacy Issues with Long Duration Sessions

7.5.  Traﬃc Analysis

8.  IANA Considerations

8.1.  Registration of a DoQ Identiﬁcation String

8.2.  Reservation of a Dedicated Port

8.3.  Reservation of an Extended DNS Error Code: Too Early

8.4.  DNS-over-QUIC Error Codes Registry

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  The NOTIFY Service

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

Huitema, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9250

DNS over Dedicated QUIC

May 2022

1.  Introduction

Domain Name System (DNS) concepts are speciﬁed in "Domain names - concepts and facilities"
[RFC1034]
"Domain names - implementation and speciﬁcation"

. The transmission of DNS queries and responses over UDP and TCP is speciﬁed in

[RFC1035]

.

This document presents a mapping of the DNS protocol over the QUIC transport
[RFC9001]
TERMS]

. DNS over QUIC is referred to here as DoQ, in line with "DNS Terminology"

[RFC9000]
[DNS-

.

The goals of the DoQ mapping are:

1.

Provide the same DNS privacy protection as DoT
client to authenticate the server by means of an authentication domain name as speciﬁed in
"Usage Proﬁles for DNS over TLS and DNS over DTLS"

. This includes an option for the

[RFC7858]

[RFC8310]

.

2.

Provide an improved level of source address validation for DNS servers compared to classic
DNS over UDP.

3.

Provide a transport that does not impose path MTU limitations on the size of DNS responses
it can send.

In order to achieve these goals, and to support ongoing work on encryption of DNS, the scope of
this document includes:

•

the "stub to recursive resolver" scenario (also called the "stub to recursive" scenario in this
document)

•

the "recursive resolver to authoritative nameserver" scenario (also called the "recursive to
authoritative" scenario in this document), and

•

the "nameserver to nameserver" scenario (mainly used for zone transfers (XFR)
[RFC5936]

).

[RFC1995]

In other words, this document speciﬁes QUIC as a general-purpose transport for DNS.

The speciﬁc non-goals of this document are:

1.

No attempt is made to evade potential blocking of DoQ traﬃc by middleboxes.

2.

No attempt to support server-initiated transactions, which are used only in DNS Stateful
Operations (DSO)

[RFC8490]

.

Specifying the transmission of an application over QUIC requires specifying how the application's
messages are mapped to QUIC streams, and generally how the application will use QUIC. This is
. The purpose of this
done for HTTP in "Hypertext Transfer Protocol Version 3 (HTTP/3)"
[HTTP/3]
document is to deﬁne the way DNS messages can be transmitted over QUIC.

Huitema, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9250

DNS over Dedicated QUIC

May 2022

[RFC8484]

 can be used with HTTP/3 to get some of the beneﬁts of QUIC.

DNS over HTTPS (DoH)
However, a lightweight direct mapping for DoQ can be regarded as a more natural ﬁt for both the
recursive to authoritative and zone transfer scenarios, which rarely involve intermediaries. In
these scenarios, the additional overhead of HTTP is not oﬀset by, for example, beneﬁts of HTTP
proxying and caching behavior.

In this document, Section 3 presents the reasoning that guided the proposed design. Section 4
speciﬁes the actual mapping of DoQ. Section 5 presents guidelines on the implementation, usage,
and deployment of DoQ.

2.  Key Words

The key words "
", "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
", "
"
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

3.  Design Considerations

This section and its subsections present the design guidelines that were used for DoQ. While all
other sections in this document are normative, this section is informative in nature.

3.1.  Provide DNS Privacy

[RFC7858]

 deﬁnes how to mitigate some of the issues described in "DNS Privacy

DoT
Considerations"
Proﬁles for DNS over TLS and DNS over DTLS"
proﬁles for DoT including how stub resolvers can authenticate recursive resolvers.

 by specifying how to transmit DNS messages over TLS. The "Usage

 specify Strict and Opportunistic usage

[RFC8310]

[RFC9076]

QUIC connection setup includes the negotiation of security parameters using TLS, as speciﬁed in
, enabling encryption of the QUIC transport. Transmitting
"Using TLS to Secure QUIC"
[RFC7858]
DNS messages over QUIC will provide essentially the same privacy protections as DoT
including Strict and Opportunistic usage proﬁles
in Section 7.

. Further discussion on this is provided

[RFC9001]

[RFC8310]

3.2.  Design for Minimum Latency

QUIC is speciﬁcally designed to reduce protocol-induced delays, with features such as:

1.

Support for 0-RTT data during session resumption.

2.

Support for advanced packet-loss recovery procedures as speciﬁed in "QUIC Loss Detection
and Congestion Control"

[RFC9002]

.

3.

Mitigation of head-of-line blocking by allowing parallel delivery of data on multiple streams.

Huitema, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9250

DNS over Dedicated QUIC

May 2022

This mapping of DNS to QUIC will take advantage of these features in three ways:

1.

Optional support for sending 0-RTT data during session resumption (the security and privacy
implications of this are discussed in later sections).

2.

Long-lived QUIC connections over which multiple DNS transactions are performed,
generating the sustained traﬃc required to beneﬁt from advanced recovery features.

3.

Mapping of each DNS Query/Response transaction to a separate stream, to mitigate head-of-
line blocking. This enables servers to respond to queries "out of order". It also enables clients
to process responses as soon as they arrive, without having to wait for in-order delivery of
responses previously posted by the server.

These considerations are reﬂected in the mapping of DNS traﬃc to QUIC streams in Section 4.2.

3.3.  Middlebox Considerations

Using QUIC might allow a protocol to disguise its purpose from devices on the network path using
encryption and traﬃc analysis resistance techniques like padding, traﬃc pacing, and traﬃc
shaping. This speciﬁcation does not include any measures that are designed to avoid such
classiﬁcation; the padding mechanisms deﬁned in Section 5.4 are intended to obfuscate the
speciﬁc records contained in DNS queries and responses, but not the fact that this is DNS traﬃc.
Consequently, ﬁrewalls and other middleboxes might be able to distinguish DoQ from other
protocols that use QUIC, like HTTP, and apply diﬀerent treatment.

The lack of measures in this speciﬁcation to avoid protocol classiﬁcation is not an endorsement
of such practices.

3.4.  No Server-Initiated Transactions

As stated in Section 1, this document does not specify support for server-initiated transactions
within established DoQ connections. That is, only the initiator of the DoQ connection may send
queries over the connection.

DSO does support server-initiated transactions within existing connections. However, DoQ as
deﬁned here does not meet the criteria for an applicable transport for DSO because it does not
guarantee in-order delivery of messages; see

Section 4.2 of [RFC8490]

.

4.  Speciﬁcations

4.1.  Connection Establishment

DoQ connections are established as described in the QUIC transport speciﬁcation
During connection establishment, DoQ support is indicated by selecting the Application-Layer
Protocol Negotiation (ALPN) token "doq" in the crypto handshake.

[RFC9000]

.

4.1.1.  Port Selection

By default, a DNS server that supports DoQ
MUST
dedicated UDP port 853 (Section 8), unless there is a mutual agreement to use another port.

 listen for and accept QUIC connections on the

Huitema, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9250

DNS over Dedicated QUIC

May 2022

By default, a DNS client desiring to use DoQ with a particular server
connection to UDP port 853 on the server, unless there is a mutual agreement to use another port.

 establish a QUIC

MUST

MUST NOT

DoQ connections
. The risk of confusion
is to avoid confusion between DoQ and the use of DNS over UDP
exists even if two parties agreed on port 53, as other parties without knowledge of that agreement
might still try to use that port.

 use UDP port 53. This recommendation against use of port 53 for DoQ

[RFC1035]

In the stub to recursive scenario, the use of port 443 as a mutually agreed alternative port can be
operationally beneﬁcial, since port 443 is used by many services using QUIC and HTTP-3 and is
thus less likely to be blocked than other ports. Several mechanisms for stubs to discover
recursives oﬀering encrypted transports, including the use of custom ports, are the subject of
ongoing work.

4.2.  Stream Mapping and Usage

The mapping of DNS traﬃc over QUIC streams takes advantage of the QUIC stream features
detailed in

, the QUIC transport speciﬁcation.

Section 2 of [RFC9000]

DNS query/response traﬃc
a query, and the server provides one or more responses (multiple responses can occur in zone
transfers).

 follows a simple pattern in which the client sends

[RFC1034] [RFC1035]

The mapping speciﬁed here requires that the client select a separate QUIC stream for each query.
The server then uses the same stream to provide all the response messages for that query. In order
for multiple responses to be parsed, a 2-octet length ﬁeld is used in exactly the same way as the 2-
octet length ﬁeld deﬁned for DNS over TCP
[RFC1035]
content of each QUIC stream is exactly the same as the content of a TCP connection that would
manage exactly one query.

. The practical result of this is that the

All DNS messages (queries and responses) sent over DoQ connections
octet length ﬁeld followed by the message content as speciﬁed in

 be encoded as a 2-
MUST
.
[RFC1035]

MUST

 select the next available client-initiated bidirectional stream for each subsequent

The client
query on a QUIC connection, in conformance with the QUIC transport speciﬁcation
Packet losses and other network events might cause queries to arrive in a diﬀerent order. Servers
 process queries as they arrive, as not doing so would cause unnecessary delays.
SHOULD

[RFC9000]

.

The client
STREAM FIN mechanism that no further data will be sent on that stream.

 send the DNS query over the selected stream and

MUST

MUST

 indicate through the

The server
response, through the STREAM FIN mechanism that no further data will be sent on that stream.

 send the response(s) on the same stream and

 indicate, after the last

MUST

MUST

Therefore, a single DNS transaction consumes a single bidirectional client-initiated stream. This
means that the client's ﬁrst query occurs on QUIC stream 0, the second on 4, and so on (see
Section 2.1 of [RFC9000]

).

Huitema, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9250

DNS over Dedicated QUIC

May 2022

Servers
MAY
selected by the client.

 defer processing of a query until the STREAM FIN has been indicated on the stream

Servers and clients
where the following events have not occurred after implementation-deﬁned timeouts:

 monitor the number of "dangling" streams. These are open streams

MAY

•

the expected queries or responses have not been received or,

•

the expected queries or responses have been received but not the STREAM FIN

Implementations
encountered, implementations

MAY

MAY

 close the connection.

 impose a limit on the number of such dangling streams. If limits are

4.2.1.  DNS Message IDs

When sending queries over a QUIC connection, the DNS Message ID
 be set to 0. The stream
mapping for DoQ allows for unambiguous correlation of queries and responses, so the Message
ID ﬁeld is not required.

MUST

This has implications for proxying DoQ messages to and from other transports. For example,
proxies may have to manage the fact that DoQ can support a larger number of outstanding
queries on a single connection than, for example, DNS over TCP, because DoQ is not limited by the
Message ID space. This issue already exists for DoH, where a Message ID of 0 is recommended.

When forwarding a DNS message from DoQ over another transport, a DNS Message ID
 be
generated according to the rules of the protocol that is in use. When forwarding a DNS message
from another transport over DoQ, the Message ID

 be set to 0.

MUST

MUST

4.3.  DoQ Error Codes

The following error codes are deﬁned for use when abruptly terminating streams, for use as
application protocol error codes when aborting reading of streams, or for immediately closing
connections:

DOQ_NO_ERROR (0x0):

No error. This is used when the connection or stream needs to be closed,

but there is no error to signal.

DOQ_INTERNAL_ERROR (0x1):

The DoQ implementation encountered an internal error and is

incapable of pursuing the transaction or the connection.

DOQ_PROTOCOL_ERROR (0x2):

The DoQ implementation encountered a protocol error and is

forcibly aborting the connection.

DOQ_REQUEST_CANCELLED (0x3):

A DoQ client uses this to signal that it wants to cancel an

outstanding transaction.

DOQ_EXCESSIVE_LOAD (0x4):

A DoQ implementation uses this to signal when closing a

connection due to excessive load.

Huitema, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9250

DNS over Dedicated QUIC

May 2022

DOQ_UNSPECIFIED_ERROR (0x5):

A DoQ implementation uses this in the absence of a more

speciﬁc error code.

DOQ_ERROR_RESERVED (0xd098ea5e):

An alternative error code used for tests.

See Section 8.4 for details on registering new error codes.

4.3.1.  Transaction Cancellation

 use the error code DOQ_REQUEST_CANCELLED. It

In QUIC, sending STOP_SENDING requests that a peer cease transmission on a stream. If a DoQ
client wishes to cancel an outstanding request, it
SHOULD
registered according to Section 8.4. The STOP_SENDING request may be sent at any time but will
have no eﬀect if the server response has already been sent, in which case the client will simply
discard the incoming response. The corresponding DNS transaction

 issue a QUIC STOP_SENDING, and it

 use a more speciﬁc error code

 be abandoned.

MUST

MUST

MAY

Servers that receive STOP_SENDING act in accordance with
SHOULD NOT

 continue processing a DNS transaction if they receive a STOP_SENDING.

Section 3.5 of [RFC9000]

. Servers

MAY

 impose implementation limits on the total number or rate of cancellation requests.
 close the connection. In this case, servers wanting to help

Servers
If limits are encountered, servers
client debugging
between helping good faith clients debug issues and allowing denial-of-service attackers to test
server defenses; depending on circumstances servers might very well choose to send diﬀerent
error codes.

 use the error code DOQ_EXCESSIVE_LOAD. There is always a trade-oﬀ

MAY

MAY

Note that this mechanism provides a way for secondaries to cancel a single zone transfer
occurring on a given stream without having to close the QUIC connection.

MUST NOT

Servers
request from the client before the client indicates the STREAM FIN. The server
RESET_STREAM to indicate that the transaction is abandoned unless:

 continue processing a DNS transaction if they receive a RESET_STREAM
 issue a

MUST

•

it has already done so for another reason or

•

it has already both sent the response and indicated the STREAM FIN.

4.3.2.  Transaction Errors

Servers normally complete transactions by sending a DNS response (or responses) on the
transaction's stream, including cases where the DNS response indicates a DNS error. For example,
) through a response with the
a client
Response Code set to SERVFAIL.

 be notiﬁed of a Server Failure (SERVFAIL,

[RFC1035]

SHOULD

If a server is incapable of sending a DNS response due to an internal error, it
RESET_STREAM frame. The error code
corresponding DNS transaction
 limit the number of unsolicited
MUST
QUIC RESET_STREAM frames received on a connection before choosing to close the connection.

SHOULD
 be set to DOQ_INTERNAL_ERROR. The

SHOULD
 be abandoned. Clients

 issue a QUIC

MAY

Huitema, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9250

DNS over Dedicated QUIC

May 2022

Note that this mechanism provides a way for primaries to abort a single zone transfer occurring
on a given stream without having to close the QUIC connection.

4.3.3.  Protocol Errors

Other error scenarios can occur due to malformed, incomplete, or unexpected messages during a
transaction. These include (but are not limited to):

•

a client or server receives a message with a non-zero Message ID

•

a client or server receives a STREAM FIN before receiving all the bytes for a message
indicated in the 2-octet length ﬁeld

•

a client receives a STREAM FIN before receiving all the expected responses

•

a server receives more than one query on a stream

•

a client receives a diﬀerent number of responses on a stream than expected (e.g., multiple
responses to a query for an A record)

•

a client receives a STOP_SENDING request

•

the client or server does not indicate the expected STREAM FIN after sending requests or
responses (see Section 4.2)

•

an implementation receives a message containing the edns-tcp-keepalive EDNS(0) Option
[RFC7828]

 (see Section 5.5.2)

•

a client or a server attempts to open a unidirectional QUIC stream

•

a server attempts to open a server-initiated bidirectional QUIC stream

•

a server receives a "replayable" transaction in 0-RTT data (for servers not willing to handle
this case, see Section 4.5)

If a peer encounters such an error condition, it is considered a fatal error. It
abort the connection using QUIC's CONNECTION_CLOSE mechanism and
error code DOQ_PROTOCOL_ERROR. In some cases, it
connection, which uses fewer of the local resources but makes debugging at the oﬀending node
more diﬃcult.

 instead silently abandon the

 forcibly
 use the DoQ

SHOULD

SHOULD

MAY

It is noted that the restrictions on use of the above EDNS(0) option has implications for proxying
messages from TCP/DoT/DoH over DoQ.

4.3.4.  Alternative Error Codes

This speciﬁcation describes speciﬁc error codes in Sections 4.3.1, 4.3.2, and 4.3.3. These error codes
are meant to facilitate investigation of failures and other incidents. New error codes may be
deﬁned in future versions of DoQ or registered as speciﬁed in Section 8.4.

Because new error codes can be deﬁned without negotiation, use of an error code in an
unexpected context or receipt of an unknown error code
DOQ_UNSPECIFIED_ERROR.

 be treated as equivalent to

MUST

Implementations
error codes not listed in this document, or they

MAY

 wish to test the support for the error code extension mechanism by using

MAY

 use DOQ_ERROR_RESERVED.

Huitema, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9250

DNS over Dedicated QUIC

May 2022

4.4.  Connection Management

, the QUIC transport speciﬁcation, speciﬁes that connections can be closed

Section 10 of [RFC9000]
in three ways:

•

idle timeout

•

immediate close

•

stateless reset

Clients and servers implementing DoQ
SHOULD
timeout is done without any packet exchange, which minimizes protocol overhead. Per
10.1 of [RFC9000]
computed as the minimum of the values advertised by the two endpoints. Practical
considerations on setting the idle timeout are discussed in Section 5.5.2.

 negotiate use of the idle timeout. Closing on idle
Section

, the QUIC transport speciﬁcation, the eﬀective value of the idle timeout is

SHOULD

 monitor the idle time incurred on their connection to the server, deﬁned by the

Clients
time spent since the last packet from the server has been received. When a client prepares to send
a new DNS query to the server, it
the idle timer. If it is, the client
the client

 check whether the idle time is suﬃciently lower than
 send the DNS query over the existing connection. If not,

 establish a new connection and send the query over that connection.

SHOULD

SHOULD

SHOULD

MAY

 discard their connections to the server before the idle timeout expires. A client that

Clients
has outstanding queries
CONNECTION_CLOSE mechanism and the DoQ error code DOQ_NO_ERROR.

 close the connection explicitly using QUIC's

SHOULD

MAY

 close the connection for a variety of other reasons, indicated using

Clients and servers
QUIC's CONNECTION_CLOSE. Client and servers that send packets over a connection discarded by
their peer might receive a stateless reset indication. If a connection fails, all the in-progress
 be abandoned.
transactions on that connection

MUST

4.5.  Session Resumption and 0-RTT

MAY

[RFC9000]

 and QUIC TLS

 take advantage of the session resumption and 0-RTT mechanisms supported by QUIC
 consider

A client
transport
potential privacy issues associated with session resumption before deciding to use this
mechanism and speciﬁcally evaluate the trade-oﬀs presented in the various sections of this
document. The privacy issues are detailed in Sections 7.1 and 7.2, and the implementation
considerations are discussed in Section 5.5.3.

 if the server supports them. Clients

[RFC9001]

SHOULD

MUST NOT

The 0-RTT mechanism
transactions. In this speciﬁcation, only transactions that have an OPCODE of QUERY or NOTIFY
are considered replayable; therefore, other OPCODES
Appendix A for a detailed discussion of why NOTIFY is included here.

 be used to send DNS requests that are not "replayable"

 be sent in 0-RTT data. See

MUST NOT

Huitema, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9250

DNS over Dedicated QUIC

May 2022

MAY

 support session resumption, and

Servers
Section 4.6.1 of [RFC9001]
the mechanisms described in
immediately process non-replayable transactions received in 0-RTT data but instead
one of the following behaviors:

. Servers supporting 0-RTT

MAY

 do that with or without supporting 0-RTT, using

MUST

 adopt

MUST NOT

•

Queue the oﬀending transaction and only process it after the QUIC handshake has been
completed, as deﬁned in

Section 4.1.1 of [RFC9001]

.

•

Reply to the oﬀending transaction with a response code REFUSED and an Extended DNS
Error Code (EDE) "Too Early" using the extended RCODE mechanisms deﬁned in
and the extended DNS errors deﬁned in

; see Section 8.3.

[RFC8914]

[RFC6891]

•

Close the connection with the error code DOQ_PROTOCOL_ERROR.

4.6.  Message Sizes

DoQ queries and responses are sent on QUIC streams, which in theory can carry up to 262 bytes.
However, DNS messages are restricted in practice to a maximum size of 65535 bytes. This
maximum size is enforced by the use of a 2-octet message length ﬁeld in DNS over TCP
and DoT
DoQ enforces the same restriction.

, and by the deﬁnition of the "application/dns-message" for DoH

[RFC7858]

[RFC8484]

[RFC1035]

.

The Extension Mechanisms for DNS (EDNS(0))
 allow peers to specify the UDP message
size. This parameter is ignored by DoQ. DoQ implementations always assume that the maximum
message size is 65535 bytes.

[RFC6891]

5.  Implementation Requirements

5.1.  Authentication

[RFC7858]

 and "Usage Proﬁles for DNS over TLS and DNS over DTLS"

For the stub to recursive scenario, the authentication requirements are the same as described in
DoT
states that DNS privacy services
the server. Given this, and to align with the authentication model for DoH, DoQ stubs
SHOULD
a Strict usage proﬁle. Client authentication for the encrypted stub to recursive scenario is not
described in any DNS RFC.

 provide credentials that clients can use to authenticate
 use

.
[RFC8310] [RFC8932]

SHOULD

For zone transfer, the authentication requirements are the same as described in

[RFC9103]

.

For the recursive to authoritative scenario, authentication requirements are unspeciﬁed at the
time of writing and are the subject of ongoing work in the DPRIVE WG.

5.2.  Fallback to Other Protocols on Connection Failure

If the establishment of the DoQ connection fails, clients
potentially cleartext, as speciﬁed in DoT
over DTLS"

, depending on their usage proﬁle.

[RFC7858]

[RFC8310]

MAY

 attempt to fall back to DoT and then
 and "Usage Proﬁles for DNS over TLS and DNS

Huitema, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9250

DNS over Dedicated QUIC

May 2022

SHOULD

DNS clients
also remember the lack of DoQ support by given IP addresses on a per-context basis (e.g., per
network or provisioning domain).

 remember server IP addresses that don't support DoQ. Mobile clients might

Timeouts, connection refusals, and QUIC handshake failures are indicators that a server does not
support DoQ. Clients
 attempt DoQ queries to a server that does not support DoQ for
a reasonable period (such as one hour per server). DNS clients following an out-of-band key-
pinned usage proﬁle
 be more aggressive about retrying after DoQ connection
failures.

[RFC7858] MAY

SHOULD NOT

5.3.  Address Validation

Section 8 of [RFC9000]
avoid servers being used in address ampliﬁcation attacks. DoQ implementations
to this speciﬁcation, which limits the worst-case ampliﬁcation to a factor 3.

, the QUIC transport speciﬁcation, deﬁnes Address Validation procedures to

 conform

MUST

SHOULD

DoQ implementations
Retry Packets procedure deﬁned in
Section 8.1.2 of [RFC9000]
This procedure imposes a 1-RTT delay for verifying the return routability of the source address of
a client, similar to the DNS Cookies mechanism

 consider conﬁguring servers to use the Address Validation using
, the QUIC transport speciﬁcation.

[RFC7873]

.

DoQ implementations that conﬁgure Address Validation using Retry Packets
the Address Validation for Future Connections procedure deﬁned in
QUIC transport speciﬁcation. This deﬁnes how servers can send NEW_TOKEN frames to clients
after the client address is validated in order to avoid the 1-RTT penalty during subsequent
connections by the client from the same address.

SHOULD
Section 8.1.3 of [RFC9000]

 implement
, the

5.4.  Padding

MUST

 protect against the traﬃc analysis attacks described in Section 7.5 by the

Implementations
judicious injection of padding. This could be done either by padding individual DNS messages
using the EDNS(0) Padding Option
Section 19.1 of
[RFC9000]

 or by padding QUIC packets (see

[RFC7830]

).

In theory, padding at the QUIC packet level could result in better performance for the equivalent
protection, because the amount of padding can take into account non-DNS frames such as
acknowledgements or ﬂow control updates, and also because QUIC packets can carry multiple
DNS messages. However, applications can only control the amount of padding in QUIC packets if
the implementation of QUIC exposes adequate APIs. This leads to the following
recommendations:

•

If the implementation of QUIC exposes APIs to set a padding policy, DoQ
to align the packet length to a small set of ﬁxed sizes.

SHOULD

 use that API

•

If padding at the QUIC packet level is not available or not used, DoQ
queries and responses are padded to a small set of ﬁxed sizes, using the EDNS(0) padding
extension as speciﬁed in

[RFC7830]

MUST

.

 ensure that all DNS

Huitema, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9250

DNS over Dedicated QUIC

May 2022

Implementations might choose not to use a QUIC API for padding if it is signiﬁcantly simpler to
reuse existing DNS message padding logic that is applied to other encrypted transports.

In the absence of a standard policy for padding sizes, implementations
recommendations of the Experimental status "Padding Policies for Extension Mechanisms for
DNS (EDNS(0))"
. While Experimental, these recommendations are referenced because
they are implemented and deployed for DoT and provide a way for implementations to be fully
compliant with this speciﬁcation.

 follow the

[RFC8467]

SHOULD

5.5.  Connection Handling

"DNS Transport over TCP - Implementation Requirements"
on DNS over TCP, some of which is applicable to DoQ. This section provides similar advice on
connection handling for DoQ.

 provides updated guidance

[RFC7766]

5.5.1.  Connection Reuse

Historic implementations of DNS clients are known to open and close TCP connections for each
DNS query. To amortize connection setup costs, both clients and servers
 support
connection reuse by sending multiple queries and responses over a single persistent QUIC
connection.

SHOULD

In order to achieve performance on par with UDP, DNS clients
concurrently over the QUIC streams on a QUIC connection. That is, when a DNS client sends
multiple queries to a server over a QUIC connection, it
before sending the next query.

 send their queries

SHOULD NOT

SHOULD

 wait for an outstanding reply

5.5.2.  Resource Management

Proper management of established and idle connections is important to the healthy operation of
a DNS server.

An implementation of DoQ
TCP

[RFC7766]

, in particular with regard to:

SHOULD

 follow best practices similar to those speciﬁed for DNS over

•

Concurrent Connections (

Section 6.2.2 of [RFC7766]

, updated by

Section 6.4 of [RFC9103]

)

•

Security Considerations (

Section 10 of [RFC7766]

)

Failure to do so may lead to resource exhaustion and denial of service.

Clients that want to maintain long duration DoQ connections
mechanisms deﬁned in
servers
MUST NOT
a DoQ connection (because it is speciﬁc to the use of TCP/TLS as a transport).

 send the edns-tcp-keepalive EDNS(0) Option

Section 10.1 of [RFC9000]

[RFC7828]

SHOULD

, the QUIC transport speciﬁcation. Clients and

 use the idle timeout

 in any messages sent on

This document does not make speciﬁc recommendations for timeout values on idle connections.
Clients and servers should reuse and/or close connections depending on the level of available
resources. Timeouts may be longer during periods of low activity and shorter during periods of
high activity.

Huitema, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9250

DNS over Dedicated QUIC

May 2022

5.5.3.  Using 0-RTT and Session Resumption

Using 0-RTT for DoQ has many compelling advantages. Clients can establish connections and
send queries without incurring a connection delay. Servers can thus negotiate low values of the
connection timers, which reduces the total number of connections that they need to manage.
They can do that because the clients that use 0-RTT will not incur latency penalties if new
connections are required for a query.

Session resumption and 0-RTT data transmission create privacy risks detailed in Sections 7.1 and
7.2. The following recommendations are meant to reduce the privacy risks while enjoying the
performance beneﬁts of 0-RTT data, subject to the restrictions speciﬁed in Section 4.5.

Clients
SHOULD
default, clients

 use resumption tickets only once, as speciﬁed in
SHOULD NOT

 use session resumption if the client's connectivity has changed.

Appendix C.4 of [RFC8446]

. By

Clients could receive address validation tokens from the server using the NEW_TOKEN
mechanism; see
7.3. Clients
resumption thus avoiding additional tracking risks.

 only use the address validation tokens when they are also using session

. The associated tracking risks are mentioned in Section

Section 8 of [RFC9000]

SHOULD

SHOULD

 issue session resumption tickets with a suﬃciently long lifetime (e.g., 6 hours), so

Servers
that clients are not tempted to either keep the connection alive or frequently poll the server to
renew session resumption tickets. Servers
SHOULD
speciﬁed in

 implement the anti-replay mechanisms

Section 8 of [RFC8446]

.

5.5.4.  Controlling Connection Migration for Privacy

. These features enable connections to continue operating as the client's

DoQ implementations might consider using the connection migration features deﬁned in
9 of [RFC9000]
connectivity changes. As detailed in Section 7.4, these features trade oﬀ privacy for latency. By
default, clients
connectivity changes.

 be conﬁgured to prioritize privacy and start new sessions if their

SHOULD

Section

5.6.  Processing Queries in Parallel

Section 7 of [RFC7766]

As speciﬁed in
resolvers are
out of order. In DoQ, they do that by sending responses on their speciﬁc stream as soon as
possible, without waiting for availability of responses for previously opened streams.

 "DNS Transport over TCP - Implementation Requirements",
 to support the preparing of responses in parallel and sending them

RECOMMENDED

Huitema, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9250

DNS over Dedicated QUIC

May 2022

5.7.  Zone Transfer

 speciﬁes zone transfer over TLS (XoT) and includes updates to
 (AXFR), and

[RFC9103]
[RFC5936]
described there apply analogously to zone transfers performed using DoQ connections. One
reason for reiterating such speciﬁc guidance is the lack of eﬀective connection reuse in existing
TCP/TLS zone transfer implementations today. The following recommendations apply:

. Considerations relating to the reuse of XoT connections

[RFC7766]

[RFC1995]

 (IXFR),

•

DoQ servers
connection.

MUST

•

DoQ servers
connection.

MUST

 be able to handle multiple concurrent IXFR requests on a single QUIC

 be able to handle multiple concurrent AXFR requests on a single QUIC

•

DoQ implementations
◦

SHOULD

use the same QUIC connection for both AXFR and IXFR requests to the same primary

◦

send those requests in parallel as soon as they are queued, i.e., do not wait for a response
before sending the next query on the connection (this is analogous to pipelining requests
on a TCP/TLS connection)

◦

send the response(s) for each request as soon as they are available, i.e., response streams
MAY

 be sent intermingled

5.8.  Flow Control Mechanisms

Servers and clients manage ﬂow control using the mechanisms deﬁned in
These mechanisms allow clients and servers to specify how many streams can be created, how
much data can be sent on a stream, and how much data can be sent on the union of all streams.
For DoQ, controlling how many streams are created allows servers to control how many new
requests the client can send on a given connection.

Section 4 of [RFC9000]

.

Flow control exists to protect endpoint resources. For servers, global and per-stream ﬂow control
limits control how much data can be sent by clients. The same mechanisms allow clients to
control how much data can be sent by servers. Values that are too small will unnecessarily limit
performance. Values that are too large might expose endpoints to overload or memory
exhaustion. Implementations or deployments will need to adjust ﬂow control limits to balance
these concerns. In particular, zone transfer implementations will need to control these limits
carefully to ensure both large and concurrent zone transfers are well managed.

Initial values of parameters control how many requests and how much data can be sent by
clients and servers at the beginning of the connection. These values are speciﬁed in transport
parameters exchanged during the connection handshake. The parameter values received in the
initial connection also control how many requests and how much data can be sent by clients
using 0-RTT data in a resumed connection. Using too small values of these initial parameters
would restrict the usefulness of allowing 0-RTT data.

Huitema, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9250

DNS over Dedicated QUIC

May 2022

6.  Security Considerations

A Threat Analysis of the Domain Name System is found in
before the development of DoT, DoH, and DoQ, and probably needs to be updated.

[RFC3833]

. This analysis was written

[RFC7858]

The security considerations of DoQ should be comparable to those of DoT
 only addresses the stub to recursive scenario, but the considerations about
speciﬁed in
person-in-the-middle attacks, middleboxes, and caching of data from cleartext connections also
apply for DoQ to the resolver to authoritative server scenario. As stated in Section 5.1, the
authentication requirements for securing zone transfer using DoQ are the same as those for zone
transfer over DoT; therefore, the general security considerations are entirely analogous to those
described in

[RFC7858]

[RFC9103]

. DoT as

.

DoQ relies on QUIC, which itself relies on TLS 1.3 and thus supports by default the protections
against downgrade attacks described in
described in

. QUIC-speciﬁc issues and their mitigations are

Section 21 of [RFC9000]

[BCP195]

.

7.  Privacy Considerations

The general considerations of encrypted transports provided in "DNS Privacy Considerations"
[RFC9076]
 apply to DoQ. The speciﬁc considerations provided there do not diﬀer between DoT
and DoQ, and they are not discussed further here. Similarly, "Recommendations for DNS Privacy
Service Operators"
 (which covers operational, policy, and security considerations for
DNS privacy services) is also applicable to DoQ services.

[RFC8932]

QUIC incorporates the mechanisms of TLS 1.3
"0-RTT" data. This can provide interesting latency gains, but it raises two concerns:

[RFC8446]

, and this enables QUIC transmission of

1.

Adversaries could replay the 0-RTT data and infer its content from the behavior of the
receiving server.

2.

The 0-RTT mechanism relies on TLS session resumption, which can provide linkability
between successive client sessions.

These issues are developed in Sections 7.1 and 7.2.

7.1.  Privacy Issues with 0-RTT data

The 0-RTT data can be replayed by adversaries. That data may trigger queries by a recursive
resolver to authoritative resolvers. Adversaries may be able to pick a time at which the recursive
resolver outgoing traﬃc is observable and thus ﬁnd out what name was queried for in the 0-RTT
data.

This risk is in fact a subset of the general problem of observing the behavior of the recursive
resolver discussed in "DNS Privacy Considerations"
. The attack is partially mitigated by
reducing the observability of this traﬃc. The mandatory replay protection mechanisms in TLS 1.3

[RFC9076]

Huitema, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9250

DNS over Dedicated QUIC

May 2022

 limit but do not eliminate the risk of replay. 0-RTT packets can only be replayed within

[RFC8446]
a narrow window, which is only wide enough to account for variations in clock skew and
network transmission.

[RFC8446]

The recommendation for TLS 1.3
turned oﬀ by default and only enabled if the user clearly understands the associated risks. In the
case of DoQ, allowing 0-RTT data provides signiﬁcant performance gains, and there is a concern
that a recommendation to not use it would simply be ignored. Instead, a set of practical
recommendations is provided in Sections 4.5 and 5.5.3.

 is that the capability to use 0-RTT data should be

The speciﬁcations in Section 4.5 block the most obvious risks of replay attacks, as they only allow
for transactions that will not change the long-term state of the server.

The attacks described above apply to the stub resolver to recursive resolver scenario, but similar
attacks might be envisaged in the recursive resolver to authoritative resolver scenario, and the
same mitigations apply.

7.2.  Privacy Issues with Session Resumption

The QUIC session resumption mechanism reduces the cost of re-establishing sessions and enables
0-RTT data. There is a linkability issue associated with session resumption, if the same resumption
token is used several times. Attackers on path between client and server could observe repeated
usage of the token and use that to track the client over time or over multiple locations.

The session resumption mechanism allows servers to correlate the resumed sessions with the
initial sessions and thus to track the client. This creates a virtual long duration session. The series
of queries in that session can be used by the server to identify the client. Servers can most
probably do that already if the client address remains constant, but session resumption tickets
also enable tracking after changes of the client's address.

The recommendations in Section 5.5.3 are designed to mitigate these risks. Using session tickets
only once mitigates the risk of tracking by third parties. Refusing to resume a session if addresses
change mitigates the incremental risk of tracking by the server (but the risk of tracking by IP
address remains).

The privacy trade-oﬀs here may be context speciﬁc. Stub resolvers will have a strong motivation
to prefer privacy over latency since they often change location. However, recursive resolvers
that use a small set of static IP addresses are more likely to prefer the reduced latency provided
by session resumption and may consider this a valid reason to use resumption tickets even if the
IP address changed between sessions.

[RFC9103]

Encrypted zone transfer (
involved in the transfer; at the same time, such transfers are not particularly latency sensitive.
This means that applications supporting zone transfers may decide to apply the same protections
as stub to recursive applications.

) explicitly does not attempt to hide the identity of the parties

Huitema, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9250

DNS over Dedicated QUIC

May 2022

7.3.  Privacy Issues with Address Validation Tokens

Section 8 of [RFC9000]

QUIC speciﬁes address validation mechanisms in
. Use of an address
validation token allows QUIC servers to avoid an extra RTT for new connections. Address
validation tokens are typically tied to an IP address. QUIC clients normally only use these tokens
when setting up a new connection from a previously used address. However, clients are not
always aware that they are using a new address. This could be due to NAT, or because the client
does not have an API available to check if the IP address has changed (which can be quite often
for IPv6). There is a linkability risk if clients mistakenly use address validation tokens after
unknowingly moving to a new location.

The recommendations in Section 5.5.3 mitigates this risk by tying the usage of the NEW_TOKEN to
that of session resumption, though this recommendation does not cover the case where the client
is unaware of the address change.

7.4.  Privacy Issues with Long Duration Sessions

A potential alternative to session resumption is the use of long duration sessions: if a session
remains open for a long time, new queries can be sent without incurring connection
establishment delays. It is worth pointing out that the two solutions have similar privacy
characteristics. Session resumption may allow servers to keep track of the IP addresses of clients,
but long duration sessions have the same eﬀect.

In particular, a DoQ implementation might take advantage of the connection migration features
of QUIC to maintain a session even if the client's connectivity changes, for example, if the client
migrates from a Wi-Fi connection to a cellular network connection and then to another Wi-Fi
connection. The server would be able to track the client location by monitoring the succession of
IP addresses used by the long duration connection.

The recommendation in Section 5.5.4 mitigates the privacy concerns related to long duration
sessions using multiple client addresses.

7.5.  Traﬃc Analysis

Even though QUIC packets are encrypted, adversaries can gain information from observing
packet lengths, in both queries and responses, as well as packet timing. Many DNS requests are
emitted by web browsers. Loading a speciﬁc web page may require resolving dozens of DNS
names. If an application adopts a simple mapping of one query or response per packet, or "one
QUIC STREAM frame per packet", then the succession of packet lengths may provide enough
information to identify the requested site.

Implementations

SHOULD

 use the mechanisms deﬁned in Section 5.4 to mitigate this attack.

Huitema, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9250

DNS over Dedicated QUIC

May 2022

8.  IANA Considerations

8.1.  Registration of a DoQ Identiﬁcation String

This document creates a new registration for the identiﬁcation of DoQ in the "TLS Application-
Layer Protocol Negotiation (ALPN) Protocol IDs" registry

[RFC7301]

.

The "doq" string identiﬁes DoQ:

Protocol:

DoQ

Identiﬁcation Sequence:

0x64 0x6F 0x71 ("doq")

Speciﬁcation:

This document

8.2.  Reservation of a Dedicated Port

For both TCP and UDP, port 853 is currently reserved for "DNS query-response protocol run over
TLS/DTLS"

[RFC7858]

.

However, the speciﬁcation for DNS over DTLS (DoD)
resolver, and no implementations or deployments currently exist to the authors' knowledge
(even though several years have passed since the speciﬁcation was published).

 is experimental, limited to stub to

[RFC8094]

This speciﬁcation additionally reserves the use of UDP port 853 for DoQ. QUIC version 1 was
designed to be able to coexist with other protocols on the same port, including DTLS; see
Section
. This means that deployments that serve DoD and DoQ (QUIC version 1) on the
17.2 of [RFC9000]
same port will be able to demultiplex the two due to the second most signiﬁcant bit in each UDP
payload. Such deployments ought to check the signatures of future versions or extensions (e.g.,
[GREASING-QUIC]

) of QUIC and DTLS before deploying them to serve DNS on the same port.

IANA has updated the following value in the "Service Name and Transport Protocol Port Number
Registry" in the System range. The registry for that range requires IETF Review or IESG Approval
[RFC6335]

.

Service Name:

domain-s

Port Number:

853

Transport Protocol(s):

UDP

Assignee:

IESG

Contact:

IETF Chair

Description:

DNS query-response protocol run over DTLS or QUIC

Huitema, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9250

DNS over Dedicated QUIC

May 2022

Reference:

[RFC7858][RFC8094]

 This document

Additionally, IANA has updated the Description ﬁeld for the corresponding TCP port 853 allocation
to be "DNS query-response protocol run over TLS" and removed
allocation's Reference ﬁeld for consistency and clarity.

 from the TCP

[RFC8094]

8.3.  Reservation of an Extended DNS Error Code: Too Early

IANA has registered the following value in the "Extended DNS Error Codes" registry

[RFC8914]

:

INFO-CODE:

26

Purpose:

Too Early

Reference:

This document

8.4.  DNS-over-QUIC Error Codes Registry

IANA has added a registry for "DNS-over-QUIC Error Codes" on the "Domain Name System (DNS)
Parameters" web page.

The "DNS-over-QUIC Error Codes" registry governs a 62-bit space. This space is split into three
regions that are governed by diﬀerent policies:

•

Permanent registrations for values between 0x00 and 0x3f (in hexadecimal; inclusive), which
are assigned using Standards Action or IESG Approval as deﬁned in Sections 4.9 and 4.10 of
[RFC8126]

•

Permanent registrations for values larger than 0x3f, which are assigned using the
)
Speciﬁcation Required policy (

[RFC8126]

•

Provisional registrations for values larger than 0x3f, which require Expert Review, as deﬁned
in

Section 4.5 of [RFC8126]

.

Provisional reservations share the range of values larger than 0x3f with some permanent
registrations. This is by design to enable conversion of provisional registrations into permanent
registrations without requiring changes in deployed systems. (This design is aligned with the
principles set in

Section 22 of [RFC9000]

.)

Registrations in this registry

MUST

 include the following ﬁelds:

Value:

The assigned codepoint

Status:

"Permanent" or "Provisional"

Contact:

Contact details for the registrant

In addition, permanent registrations

MUST

 include:

Huitema, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9250

DNS over Dedicated QUIC

May 2022

Error:

A short mnemonic for the parameter

Speciﬁcation:

A reference to a publicly available speciﬁcation for the value (optional for

provisional registrations)

Description:

A brief description of the error code semantics, which

MAY

 be a summary if a

speciﬁcation reference is provided

Provisional registrations of codepoints are intended to allow for private use and
experimentation with extensions to DoQ. However, provisional registrations could be reclaimed
and reassigned for other purposes. In addition to the parameters listed above, provisional
registrations

 include:

MUST

Date:

The date of last update to the registration

A request to update the date on any provisional registration can be made without review from the
designated expert(s).

The initial content of this registry is shown in Table 1 and all entries share the following ﬁelds:

Status:

Permanent

Contact:

DPRIVE WG

Speciﬁcation:

Section 4.3

Value

Error

Description

0x0

0x1

0x2

0x3

0x4

0x5

DOQ_NO_ERROR

No error

DOQ_INTERNAL_ERROR

Implementation error

DOQ_PROTOCOL_ERROR

Generic protocol violation

DOQ_REQUEST_CANCELLED

Request cancelled by client

DOQ_EXCESSIVE_LOAD

Closing a connection for excessive load

DOQ_UNSPECIFIED_ERROR

No error reason speciﬁed

0xd098ea5e

DOQ_ERROR_RESERVED

Alternative error code used for tests

Table 1: Initial DNS-over-QUIC Error Codes Entries

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

Huitema, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9250

DNS over Dedicated QUIC

May 2022

[RFC1034]

[RFC1035]

[RFC1995]

[RFC2119]

[RFC5936]

[RFC6891]

[RFC7301]

[RFC7766]

[RFC7830]

[RFC7858]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8310]

[RFC8446]

Mockapetris, P. "Domain names - concepts and facilities" STD 13 RFC 1034 DOI
10.17487/RFC1034

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1034>
.

, November 1987,

,

,

,

Mockapetris, P. "Domain names - implementation and speciﬁcation" STD 13
,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/
RFC 1035 DOI 10.17487/RFC1035
info/rfc1035>
.

, November 1987,

,

,

,

Ohta, M. "Incremental Zone Transfer in DNS" RFC 1995 DOI 10.17487/RFC1995
,
August 1996,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1995>
.

,

,

,

,
Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
.
rfc2119>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

 and

Lewis, E.
10.17487/RFC5936

,
, June 2010,

A. Hoenes, Ed. "DNS Zone Transfer Protocol (AXFR)" RFC 5936 DOI

,

,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5936>

,
Damas, J. Graﬀ, M.
75 RFC 6891 DOI 10.17487/RFC6891
.
rfc6891>

, and

,

,

,

P. Vixie "Extension Mechanisms for DNS (EDNS(0))" STD

,

, April 2013,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

Friedl, S. Popov, A. Langley, A.
Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation Extension" RFC 7301 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7301

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7301>

E. Stephan "Transport Layer Security (TLS)

, July 2014,

, and

,

,

,

,

Dickinson, J. Dickinson, S. Bellis, R. Mankin, A.
,
over TCP - Implementation Requirements" RFC 7766 DOI 10.17487/RFC7766
March 2016,

, and
D. Wessels "DNS Transport
,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7766>

,

,

,

,

,
Mayrhofer, A. "The EDNS(0) Padding Option" RFC 7830 DOI 10.17487/RFC7830
May 2016,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7830>

,

,

,

,

,

Hu, Z. Zhu, L. Heidemann, J. Mankin, A. Wessels, D.
"Speciﬁcation for DNS over Transport Layer Security (TLS)" RFC 7858 DOI
10.17487/RFC7858

,
,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7858>

, May 2016,

P. Hoﬀman

, and

,

,

,

,
Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

, June

,
,
Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
.
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

Dickinson, S. Gillmor, D.
,
,
over DTLS" RFC 8310 DOI 10.17487/RFC8310
.
editor.org/info/rfc8310>

, and

,

T. Reddy "Usage Proﬁles for DNS over TLS and DNS

, March 2018,

<https://www.rfc-

,
,
Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>

, August 2018,

,

Huitema, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9250

DNS over Dedicated QUIC

May 2022

[RFC8467]

,

Mayrhofer, A. "Padding Policies for Extension Mechanisms for DNS (EDNS(0))"
,
RFC 8467 DOI 10.17487/RFC8467
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, October 2018,
,
.
rfc8467>

[RFC8914]

[RFC9000]

[RFC9001]

[RFC9103]

,

,
Kumari, W. Hunt, E. Arends, R. Hardaker, W.
Errors" RFC 8914 DOI 10.17487/RFC8914
.
editor.org/info/rfc8914>

,

,

,

, and
, October 2020,

D. Lawrence "Extended DNS

,
<https://www.rfc-

 and

Iyengar, J., Ed.
,
,
Transport" RFC 9000 DOI 10.17487/RFC9000
.
editor.org/info/rfc9000>

M. Thomson, Ed. "QUIC: A UDP-Based Multiplexed and Secure
, May 2021,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Thomson, M., Ed.
10.17487/RFC9001

 and
, May 2021,

S. Turner, Ed. "Using TLS to Secure QUIC" RFC 9001 DOI
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9001>

,

,

,

,

Toorop, W. Dickinson, S. Sahib, S. Aras, P.
,
over TLS" RFC 9103 DOI 10.17487/RFC9103
.
editor.org/info/rfc9103>

,

,

,

, and
, August 2021,

A. Mankin "DNS Zone Transfer

,

<https://www.rfc-

9.2.  Informative References

[BCP195]

[DNS-TERMS]

[DNS0RTT]

Sheﬀer, Y. Holz, R.
,
Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)"
,
BCP 195 RFC 7525
,

P. Saint-Andre "Recommendations for Secure Use of

, May 2015.

, and

,

Moriarty, K.
March 2021.

 and

S. Farrell "Deprecating TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1" BCP 195 RFC 8996
,

,

,

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/bcp195>

 and

Hoﬀman, P.
<https://
Draft, draft-ietf-dnsop-rfc8499bis-03
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-dnsop-rfc8499bis-03>
.

K. Fujiwara "DNS Terminology" Work in Progress Internet-
, 28 September 2021,

,

,

,

,

Kahn Gillmor, D. "DNS + 0-RTT" Message to DNS-Privacy WG mailing list
2016,
<https://www.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/dns-privacy/current/
.
msg01276.html>

,

, 6 April

[GREASING-QUIC]

Thomson, M. "Greasing the QUIC Bit" Work in Progress Internet-Draft,

,

,

,

draft-ietf-quic-bit-grease-02
.
html/draft-ietf-quic-bit-grease-02>

, 10 November 2021,

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/

[HTTP/3]

[RFC1996]

,

Bishop, M., Ed. "Hypertext Transfer Protocol Version 3 (HTTP/3)" Work in
Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-quic-http-34
.
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-quic-http-34>

,
<https://

, 2 February 2021,

,

,

,
Vixie, P. "A Mechanism for Prompt Notiﬁcation of Zone Changes (DNS NOTIFY)"
,
RFC 1996 DOI 10.17487/RFC1996
.
rfc1996>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, August 1996,

Huitema, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9250

DNS over Dedicated QUIC

May 2022

[RFC3833]

[RFC6335]

[RFC7828]

[RFC7873]

[RFC8094]

[RFC8484]

[RFC8490]

[RFC8932]

[RFC9002]

[RFC9076]

Atkins, D.
 and
RFC 3833 DOI 10.17487/RFC3833
,
rfc3833>
.

,

R. Austein "Threat Analysis of the Domain Name System (DNS)"
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, August 2004,

,

,

Cotton, M. Eggert, L. Touch, J. Westerlund, M.
Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) Procedures for the Management of the
,
Service Name and Transport Protocol Port Number Registry" BCP 165 RFC 6335
DOI 10.17487/RFC6335

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6335>

,
S. Cheshire "Internet

, August 2011,

, and

,

,

,

,

,
Wouters, P. Abley, J. Dickinson, S.
Option" RFC 7828 DOI 10.17487/RFC7828
.
info/rfc7828>

, and

,

,

,
, April 2016,

R. Bellis "The edns-tcp-keepalive EDNS0

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

Eastlake 3rd, D.
7873 DOI 10.17487/RFC7873

 and

,

,
, May 2016,

M. Andrews "Domain Name System (DNS) Cookies" RFC

,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7873>

, and
,
Reddy, T. Wing, D.
,
,
(DTLS)" RFC 8094 DOI 10.17487/RFC8094
.
editor.org/info/rfc8094>

,

P. Patil "DNS over Datagram Transport Layer Security

, February 2017,

<https://www.rfc-

 and
Hoﬀman, P.
10.17487/RFC8484

P. McManus "DNS Queries over HTTPS (DoH)" RFC 8484 DOI
, October 2018,

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8484>

,

,

,

Bellis, R. Cheshire, S. Dickinson, J. Dickinson, S. Lemon, T.
Stateful Operations" RFC 8490 DOI 10.17487/RFC8490
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8490>

,
,

,

,

,

, and

T. Pusateri "DNS

,
<https://

, March 2019,

,

Dickinson, S. Overeinder, B. van Rijswijk-Deij, R.
"Recommendations for DNS Privacy Service Operators" BCP 232 RFC 8932 DOI
10.17487/RFC8932

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8932>

,
A. Mankin
,

, October 2020,

, and

,

,

,

,
 and
Iyengar, J., Ed.
,
RFC 9002 DOI 10.17487/RFC9002
.
rfc9002>

,
I. Swett, Ed. "QUIC Loss Detection and Congestion Control"

, May 2021,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,
Wicinski, T., Ed. "DNS Privacy Considerations" RFC 9076 DOI 10.17487/RFC9076
July 2021,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9076>

,

,

,

Appendix A.  The NOTIFY Service

This appendix discusses why it is considered acceptable to send NOTIFY (see
data.

[RFC1996]

) in 0-RTT

Section 4.5 says "The 0-RTT mechanism
"replayable" transactions". This speciﬁcation supports sending a NOTIFY in 0-RTT data because
although a NOTIFY technically changes the state of the receiving server, the eﬀect of replaying
NOTIFYs has negligible impact in practice.

 be used to send DNS requests that are not

MUST NOT

Huitema, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9250

DNS over Dedicated QUIC

May 2022

NOTIFY messages prompt a secondary to either send an SOA query or an XFR request to the
primary on the basis that a newer version of the zone is available. It has long been recognized
that NOTIFYs can be forged and, in theory, used to cause a secondary to send repeated
unnecessary requests to the primary. For this reason, most implementations have some form of
throttling of the SOA/XFR queries triggered by the receipt of one or more NOTIFYs.

 describes the privacy risks associated with both NOTIFY and SOA queries and does not

[RFC9103]
include addressing those risks within the scope of encrypting zone transfers. Given this, the
privacy beneﬁt of using DoQ for NOTIFY is not clear, but for the same reason, sending NOTIFY as
0-RTT data has no privacy risk above that of sending it using cleartext DNS.

Acknowledgements

[HTTP/3]
This document liberally borrows text from the HTTP/3 speciﬁcation
Bishop
,
Allison Mankin Duane Wessels
,

[RFC7858]
Paul Hoﬀman

 and from the DoT speciﬁcation

 authored by

, and

.

 edited by

Mike

Zi Hu Liang Zhu John Heidemann
,

,

The privacy issue with 0-RTT data and session resumption was analyzed by
(DKG) in a message to the IETF DPRIVE Working Group

[DNS0RTT]

.

Daniel Kahn Gillmor

Tony Finch

Thanks to
Robert Evans
Martin Thomson
the deﬁnition of the protocol.

 for an extensive review of the initial draft version of this document, and to

 for the discussion of 0-RTT privacy issues. Early reviews by

Paul Hoﬀman

 and

 and interoperability tests conducted by Stephane Bortzmeyer helped improve

Martin Thomson

Thanks also to
 and
QUIC details, which helped clarify several aspects of DoQ. Thanks to
Velvindron Lucas Pardue Matt Joras Mirja Kuelewind Brian Trammell
Baker

 for their reviews and contributions.

Martin Duke

,

,

,

,

 for their later reviews focusing on the low-level
Andrey Meshkov Loganaden

,
Phillip Hallam-

, and

Authors' Addresses

Christian Huitema
Private Octopus Inc.
427 Golfcourse Rd
Friday Harbor WA 98250
United States of America
Email:

,

 huitema@huitema.net

Sara Dickinson
Sinodun IT
Oxford Science Park
Oxford
OX4 4GA
United Kingdom
Email:

 sara@sinodun.com

Huitema, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9250

DNS over Dedicated QUIC

May 2022

Allison Mankin
Salesforce
Email:

 allison.mankin@gmail.com

Huitema, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

