Stream:
RFC:
Obsoletes:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9286
6486
Standards Track
June 2022
2070-1721
R. Austein
Arrcus, Inc.

G. Huston
APNIC

S. Kent
Independent

M. Lepinski
New College Florida

RFC 9286
Manifests for the Resource Public Key Infrastructure
(RPKI)

Abstract

This document deﬁnes a "manifest" for use in the Resource Public Key Infrastructure (RPKI). A
manifest is a signed object (ﬁle) that contains a listing of all the signed objects (ﬁles) in the
repository publication point (directory) associated with an authority responsible for publishing
in the repository. For each certiﬁcate, Certiﬁcate Revocation List (CRL), or other type of signed
objects issued by the authority that are published at this repository publication point, the
manifest contains both the name of the ﬁle containing the object and a hash of the ﬁle content.
Manifests are intended to enable a relying party (RP) to detect certain forms of attacks against a
repository. Speciﬁcally, if an RP checks a manifest's contents against the signed objects retrieved
from a repository publication point, then the RP can detect replay attacks, and unauthorized in-
ﬂight modiﬁcation or deletion of signed objects. This document obsoletes RFC 6486.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9286
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Austein, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9286

RPKI Manifests

June 2022

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

2.  Manifest Scope

3.  Manifest Signing

4.  Manifest Deﬁnition

4.1.  eContentType

4.2.  eContent

4.2.1.  Manifest

4.2.2.  Names in FileAndHash Objects

4.3.  Content-Type Attribute

4.4.  Manifest Validation

5.  Manifest Generation

5.1.  Manifest Generation Procedure

5.2.  Considerations for Manifest Generation

6.  Relying Party Processing of Manifests

6.1.  Manifest Processing Overview

6.2.  Acquiring a Manifest for a CA

6.3.  Detecting Stale and/or Prematurely Issued Manifests

6.4.  Acquiring Files Referenced by a Manifest

6.5.  Matching File Names and Hashes

6.6.  Failed Fetches

7.  Publication Repositories

8.  Security Considerations

9.  IANA Considerations

Austein, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9286

RPKI Manifests

June 2022

10. References

10.1.  Normative References

10.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  ASN.1 Module

Appendix B.  Changes since RFC 6486

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

[RFC6480]

[RFC6481]

 makes use of a distributed repository

 to make available a variety of objects needed by relying parties (RPs). Because

The Resource Public Key Infrastructure (RPKI)
system
all of the objects stored in the repository system are digitally signed by the entities that created
them, attacks that modify these published objects are detectable by RPs. However, digital
signatures alone provide no protection against attacks that substitute "stale" versions of signed
objects (i.e., objects that were valid and have not yet expired, but have since been superseded), or
in-ﬂight attacks that remove an object that should be present in the repository. To assist in the
detection of such attacks, RPKI repository systems make use of a signed object called a
"manifest".

A manifest is a signed object that enumerates all the signed objects (ﬁles) in the repository
publication point (directory) that are associated with an authority responsible for publishing at
that publication point. Each manifest contains both the name of the ﬁle containing the object
and a hash of the ﬁle content, for every signed object issued by an authority that is published at
the authority's repository publication point. A manifest is intended to allow an RP to detect
unauthorized object removal or the substitution of stale versions of objects at a publication point.
A manifest also is intended to allow an RP to detect similar outcomes that may result from an on-
path attack during the retrieval of objects from the repository. Manifests are intended to be used
in Certiﬁcation Authority (CA) publication points in repositories (directories containing ﬁles that
are subordinate certiﬁcates and Certiﬁcate Revocation Lists (CRLs) issued by this CA and other
signed objects that are veriﬁed by End-Entity (EE) certiﬁcates issued by this CA).

Manifests are modeled on CRLs, as the issues involved in detecting stale manifests and potential
attacks using manifest replays, etc., are similar to those for CRLs. The syntax of the manifest
payload diﬀers from CRLs, since RPKI repositories contain objects not covered by CRLs, e.g.,
digitally signed objects, such as Route Origin Authorizations (ROAs)

[RFC6482]

.

This document obsoletes

[RFC6486]

.

Austein, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9286

RPKI Manifests

June 2022

1.1.  Requirements Language

The key words "
", "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
", "
"
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

2.  Manifest Scope

A manifest associated with a CA's repository publication point contains a list of:

•

the set of (non-expired, non-revoked) certiﬁcates issued and published by this CA,

•

the most recent CRL issued by this CA, and

•

all published signed objects that are veriﬁable using EE certiﬁcates
CA (other than the manifest itself).

[RFC6487]

 issued by this

Every RPKI signed object includes, in the Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS)
wrapper of the object, the EE certiﬁcate used to verify it
to separately publish that EE certiﬁcate at the CA's repository publication point.

[RFC6488]

[RFC5652]

. Thus, there is no requirement

Where multiple CA instances share a common publication point, as can occur when a CA
performs a key-rollover operation
multiple manifests. In this case, each manifest describes only the collection of published products
of its associated CA instance.

, the repository publication point will contain

[RFC6489]

3.  Manifest Signing

A CA's manifest is veriﬁed using an EE certiﬁcate. The SubjectInfoAccess (SIA) ﬁeld of this EE
certiﬁcate contains the accessMethod Object Identiﬁer (OID) of id-ad-signedObject.

MUST

 sign only one manifest with each generated private key and

The CA
 generate a new
key pair for each new version of the manifest. An associated EE certiﬁcate used in this fashion is
termed a "one-time-use" EE certiﬁcate (see

Section 3 of [RFC6487]

MUST

).

4.  Manifest Deﬁnition

. The RPKI signed object template
A manifest is an RPKI signed object, as speciﬁed in
requires speciﬁcation of the following data elements in the context of the manifest structure.

[RFC6488]

4.1.  eContentType

The eContentType for a manifest is deﬁned as id-ct-rpkiManifest and has the numerical OID of
1.2.840.113549.1.9.16.1.26.

Austein, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9286

RPKI Manifests

June 2022

   id-smime OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { iso(1) member-body(2) us(840)
                             rsadsi(113549) pkcs(1) pkcs9(9) 16 }

   id-ct OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { id-smime 1 }

   id-ct-rpkiManifest OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { id-ct 26 }

4.2.  eContent

The content of a manifest is ASN.1 encoded using the Distinguished Encoding Rules (DER)
The content of a manifest is deﬁned as follows:

[X.690]

.

    Manifest ::= SEQUENCE {
     version     [0] INTEGER DEFAULT 0,
     manifestNumber  INTEGER (0..MAX),
     thisUpdate      GeneralizedTime,
     nextUpdate      GeneralizedTime,
     fileHashAlg     OBJECT IDENTIFIER,
     fileList        SEQUENCE SIZE (0..MAX) OF FileAndHash
     }

   FileAndHash ::=     SEQUENCE {
     file            IA5String,
     hash            BIT STRING
  }

4.2.1.  Manifest

The manifestNumber, thisUpdate, and nextUpdate ﬁelds are modeled after the corresponding
ﬁelds in X.509 CRLs (see
time speciﬁed in nextUpdate or until a manifest is issued with a greater manifest number,
whichever comes ﬁrst.

). Analogous to CRLs, a manifest is nominally current until the

[RFC5280]

Because a "one-time-use" EE certiﬁcate is employed to verify a manifest, the EE certiﬁcate
be issued with a validity period that coincides with the interval from thisUpdate to nextUpdate in
the manifest, to prevent needless growth of the CA's CRL.

MUST

The data elements of the manifest structure are deﬁned as follows:

version:

The version number of this version of the manifest speciﬁcation

MUST

 be 0.

manifestNumber:

This ﬁeld is an integer that is incremented (by 1) each time a new manifest is issued for a given
publication point. This ﬁeld allows an RP to detect gaps in a sequence of published manifests.

As the manifest is modeled on the CRL speciﬁcation, the manifestNumber is analogous to the
CRLNumber, and the guidance in
range of number values that can be used for the manifestNumber. Manifest numbers can be

 for CRLNumber values is appropriate as to the

[RFC5280]

Austein, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9286

RPKI Manifests

June 2022

MUST

MUST

 be able to process number values

 increase the value of this ﬁeld monotonically for each newly

expected to contain long integers. Manifest veriﬁers
up to 20 octets. Conforming manifest issuers
octets. The issuer
generated manifest. Each RP
manifestNumber than previously validated manifests. If the purported "new" manifest
contains a manifestNumber value equal to or lower than manifestNumber values of
previously validated manifests, the RP
SHOULD
described in Section 6.6.

 use locally cached versions of objects, as

 use number values longer than 20

 verify that a purported "new" manifest contains a higher

MUST NOT

MUST

thisUpdate:

[RFC5280]

This ﬁeld contains the time when the manifest was created. This ﬁeld has the same format
constraints as speciﬁed in
ensure that the value of this ﬁeld is more recent than any previously generated manifest. Each
RP
has validated. If this ﬁeld in a purported "new" manifest is smaller (less recent) than
previously validated manifests, the RP
described in Section 6.6.

 verify that this ﬁeld value is greater (more recent) than the most recent manifest it

 for the CRL ﬁeld of the same name. The issuer

 use locally cached versions of objects, as

SHOULD

MUST

MUST

nextUpdate:

This ﬁeld contains the time at which the next scheduled manifest will be issued. The value of
nextUpdate
GeneralizedTime value is the same as required for the thisUpdate ﬁeld.

 be later than the value of thisUpdate. The speciﬁcation of the

MUST

MUST

 issue a new manifest. Even if no changes are made to objects at a

If the authority alters any of the items that it has published in the repository publication point,
then the authority
publication point, a new manifest
encompasses a CRL, and the nextUpdate ﬁeld of the manifest
nextUpdate ﬁeld, as the manifest will be reissued when a new CRL is published. When a new
manifest is issued before the time speciﬁed in nextUpdate of the current manifest, the CA
MUST

 be issued before the nextUpdate time. Each manifest
 match that of the CRL's
SHOULD

 also issue a new CRL that revokes the EE certiﬁcate corresponding to the old manifest.

MUST

ﬁleHashAlg:

This ﬁeld contains the OID of the hash algorithm used to hash the ﬁles that the authority has
placed into the repository. The hash algorithm used
Key Size Proﬁle speciﬁcation

 conform to the RPKI Algorithms and

[RFC7935]

MUST

.

ﬁleList:

This ﬁeld is a sequence of FileAndHash objects. There is one FileAndHash entry for each
currently valid signed object that has been published by the authority (at this publication
point). Each FileAndHash is an ordered pair consisting of the name of the ﬁle in the repository
publication point (directory) that contains the object in question and a hash of the ﬁle's
contents.

Austein, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9286

RPKI Manifests

June 2022

4.2.2.  Names in FileAndHash Objects

Names that appear in the ﬁleList
A-Z, 0-9, - (HYPHEN), or _ (UNDERSCORE), followed by a single . (DOT), followed by a three- letter
extension. The extension
Schemes" registry maintained by IANA

 be one of those enumerated in the "RPKI Repository Name

 consist of one or more characters chosen from the set a-z,

[IANA-NAMING]

MUST

MUST

.

As an example, 'vixxBTS_TVXQ-2pmGOT7.cer' is a valid ﬁle name.

The example above contains a mix of uppercase and lowercase characters in the ﬁle name. CAs
and RPs
manner.

 be able to perform ﬁlesystem operations in a case-sensitive, case-preserving

MUST

4.3.  Content-Type Attribute

The mandatory content-type attribute
eContentType. This OID is id-ct-rpkiManifest and has the numerical value of
1.2.840.113549.1.9.16.1.26.

MUST

 have its attrValues ﬁeld set to the same OID as

4.4.  Manifest Validation

To determine whether a manifest is valid, the RP
[RFC6488]
to those speciﬁed in

:

MUST

 perform the following checks in addition

1.

The eContentType in the EncapsulatedContentInfo is id-ad- rpkiManifest (OID
1.2.840.113549.1.9.16.1.26).

2.

The version of the rpkiManifest is 0.

3.

In the rpkiManifest, thisUpdate precedes nextUpdate.

Note: Although the thisUpdate and nextUpdate ﬁelds in the manifest eContent
corresponding ﬁelds in the CRL associated with the manifest, RPs
solely because these ﬁelds are not identical.

MUST NOT

MUST

 match the

 reject a manifest

If the above procedure indicates that the manifest is invalid, then the manifest
and treated as though no manifest were present.

MUST

 be discarded

5.  Manifest Generation

5.1.  Manifest Generation Procedure

For a CA publication point in the RPKI repository system, a CA
to generate a manifest:

MUST

 perform the following steps

1.

Generate a new key pair for use in a "one-time-use" EE certiﬁcate.

2.

Issue an EE certiﬁcate for this key pair. The CA
manifest being replaced.

MUST

 revoke the EE certiﬁcate used for the

Austein, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9286

RPKI Manifests

June 2022

MUST

 have an SIA extension access description ﬁeld with an accessMethod

This EE certiﬁcate
OID value of id-ad-signedObject, where the associated accessLocation references the
publication point of the manifest as an object URL. (RPs are required to verify both of these
syntactic constraints.)

This EE certiﬁcate
attribute, rather than an explicit description of a resource set (see
required to verify this.)

MUST

 describe its Internet Number Resources (INRs) using the "inherit"

[RFC3779]

). (RPs are

The validity interval of the EE certiﬁcate
times speciﬁed in the manifest's eContent. (An RP
validity interval in and of itself to be an error.)

MUST

 exactly match the thisUpdate and nextUpdate

MUST NOT

 consider misalignment of the

3.

The EE certiﬁcate

MUST NOT

 be published in the authority's repository publication point.

4.

Construct the manifest content.

The manifest content is described in Section 4.2.1. The manifest's ﬁleList includes the ﬁle
name and hash pair for each object issued by this CA that has been published at this
repository publication point (directory). The collection of objects to be included in the
manifest includes all certiﬁcates issued by this CA that are published at the CA's repository
publication point, the most recent CRL issued by the CA, and all objects veriﬁed by EE
certiﬁcates that were issued by this CA that are published at this repository publication point.
(Sections 6.1 through 6.5 describe the checks that an RP
manifest content noted here.)

 perform in support of the

MUST

Note that the manifest does not include a self reference (i.e., its own ﬁle name and hash),
since it would be impossible to compute the hash of the manifest itself prior to it being signed.

5.

Encapsulate the manifest content using the CMS SignedData content type (as speciﬁed in
Section 4), sign the manifest using the private key corresponding to the subject key contained
in the EE certiﬁcate, and publish the manifest in the repository system publication point that
is described by the manifest. (RPs are required to verify the CMS signature.)

6.

Because the key pair is to be used only once, the private key associated with this key pair
MUST

 now be destroyed.

5.2.  Considerations for Manifest Generation

A new manifest

MUST

 be issued and published before the nextUpdate time.

MUST

MUST

 issue a new manifest in conjunction with the ﬁnalization of changes made to

An authority
objects in the publication point. If any named objects in the publication point are replaced, the
 ensure that the ﬁle hash for each replaced object is updated accordingly in the
authority
new manifest. Additionally, the authority
replaced object (other than a CRL), if it is not expired. An authority
 perform a number of
object operations on a publication repository within the scope of a repository change before
issuing a single manifest that covers all the operations within the scope of this change. Repository
operators
extent possible, the risk that RPs that are performing retrieval operations on the repository are
exposed to inconsistent, transient, intermediate states during updates to the repository
publication point (directory) and the associated manifest.

 revoke the certiﬁcate associated with each
MAY

 implement some form of repository update procedure that mitigates, to the

MUST

MUST

Austein, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9286

RPKI Manifests

June 2022

Since the manifest object URL is included in the SIA of issued certiﬁcates, a new manifest
 invalidate the manifest object URL of previously issued certiﬁcates. This implies that the
NOT
manifest's publication name in the repository, in the form of an object URL, is unchanged across
manifest generation cycles.

MUST

When a CA entity is performing a key rollover, the entity
 choose to have two CA instances
simultaneously publishing into the same repository publication point. In this case, there will be
one manifest associated with each active CA instance that is publishing into the common
repository publication point (directory).

MAY

6.  Relying Party Processing of Manifests

MUST

 use the current manifest of a CA to control addition of listed ﬁles to the set of

Each RP
signed objects the RP employs for validating basic RPKI objects: certiﬁcates, ROAs, and CRLs. Any
ﬁles not listed on the manifest
not listed on a manifest
object type explicitly states that such behavior is allowed (or required). Note that relying on ﬁles
not listed in a manifest may allow an attacker to eﬀect substitution attacks against such objects.

 be employed to validate other signed objects, if the proﬁle of the

 be used for validation of these objects. However, ﬁles

MUST NOT

MAY

As noted earlier, manifests are designed to allow an RP to detect manipulation of repository data,
errors by a CA or repository manager, and/or active attacks on the communication channel
between an RP and a repository. Unless all of the ﬁles enumerated in a manifest can be obtained
by an RP during a fetch operation, the fetch is considered to have failed and the RP
fetch later.

 retry the

MUST

 suggests (but does not mandate) that the RPKI model employ fetches that are

[RFC6480]
incremental, e.g., an RP transfers ﬁles from a publication point only if they are new/changed
since the previous, successful fetch represented in the RP's local cache. This document avoids
language that relies on details of the underlying ﬁle transfer mechanism employed by an RP and
a publication point to eﬀect this operation. Thus, the term "fetch" refers to an operation that
attempts to acquire the full set of ﬁles at a publication point, consistent with the id-ad-
rpkiManifest URI extracted from a CA certiﬁcate's SIA (see below).

If a fetch fails, it is assumed that a subsequent fetch will resolve problems encountered during the
fetch. Until such time as a successful fetch is executed, an RP
previous, successful fetch. This response is intended to prevent an RP from misinterpreting data
associated with a publication point and thus possibly treating invalid routes as valid, or vice
versa.

 use cached data from a

SHOULD

The processing described below is designed to cause all RPs with access to the same local cache
and RPKI repository data to acquire the same set of validated repository ﬁles. It does not ensure
that the RPs will achieve the same results with regard to validation of RPKI data, since that
depends on how each RP resolves any conﬂicts that may arise in processing the retrieved ﬁles.
Moreover, in operation, diﬀerent RPs will access repositories at diﬀerent times, and some RPs
may experience local cache failures, so there is no guarantee that all RPs will achieve the same
results with regard to acquisition or validation of RPKI data.

Austein, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9286

RPKI Manifests

June 2022

Note also that there is a "chicken and egg" relationship between the manifest and the CRL for a
given CA instance. If the EE certiﬁcate for the current manifest is revoked, i.e., it appears in the
current CRL, then the CA or publication point manager has made a serious error. In this case, the
fetch has failed; proceed to Section 6.6. Similarly, if the CRL is not listed on a valid, current
manifest, acquired during a fetch, the fetch has failed; proceed to Section 6.6, because the CRL is
considered missing.

6.1.  Manifest Processing Overview

MUST

 perform a series of tests to determine which signed

For a given publication point, an RP
object ﬁles at the publication point are acceptable. The tests described below (Sections 6.2 through
6.5) are to be performed using the manifest identiﬁed by the id-ad- rpkiManifest URI extracted
from a CA certiﬁcate's SIA. All of the ﬁles referenced by the manifest
publication point speciﬁed by the id-ad-caRepository URI from the (same) CA certiﬁcate's SIA. The
manifest and the ﬁles it references
encounters any ﬁles that appear on a manifest but do not reside at the same publication point as
the manifest, the RP
 be issued (see Section 6.6
below).

 reside at the same publication point. If an RP

 treat the fetch as failed, and a warning

 be located at the

MUST

MUST

MUST

MUST

Note that, during CA key rollover
will appear at the same publication point. Manifest processing is to be performed separately for
each CA instance, guided by the SIA id-ad-rpkiManifest URI in each CA certiﬁcate.

, signed objects for two or more diﬀerent CA instances

[RFC6489]

6.2.  Acquiring a Manifest for a CA

MUST

 fetch the manifest identiﬁed by the SIA id-ad- rpkiManifest URI in the CA certiﬁcate.

The RP
If an RP cannot retrieve a manifest using this URI or if the manifest is not valid (Section 4.4), an
RP

 treat this as a failed fetch; proceed to Section 6.6. Otherwise, proceed to Section 6.3.

MUST

6.3.  Detecting Stale and/or Prematurely Issued Manifests

MUST

 check that the current time (translated to UTC) is between thisUpdate and

The RP
nextUpdate. If the current time lies within this interval, proceed to Section 6.4. If the current time
is earlier than thisUpdate, the CA may have made an error or the RP's local notion of time may be
 treat this as a failed fetch; proceed to Section 6.6. If the current time is later
in error. The RP
than nextUpdate, then the manifest is stale; the RP
Section 6.6. Otherwise, proceed to Section 6.4.

 treat this as a failed fetch. Proceed to

MUST

MUST

6.4.  Acquiring Files Referenced by a Manifest

MUST

 acquire all of the ﬁles enumerated in the manifest (ﬁleList) from the publication

The RP
point. If there are ﬁles listed in the manifest that cannot be retrieved from the publication point,
the RP

 treat this as a failed fetch. Proceed to Section 6.6. Otherwise, proceed to Section 6.5.

MUST

Austein, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9286

RPKI Manifests

June 2022

6.5.  Matching File Names and Hashes

MUST

 verify that the hash value of each ﬁle listed in the manifest matches the value

The RP
obtained by hashing the ﬁle acquired from the publication point. If the computed hash value of a
ﬁle listed on the manifest does not match the hash value contained in the manifest, then the fetch
 respond accordingly. Proceed to Section 6.6.
has failed, and the RP

MUST

6.6.  Failed Fetches

If a fetch fails for any of the reasons cited in Sections 6.2 through 6.5, the RP
indicating the reason(s) for termination of processing with regard to this CA instance. It is
RECOMMENDED

 that a human operator be notiﬁed of this warning.

MUST

 issue a warning

Termination of processing means that the RP
objects associated with this CA instance, until such time as they become stale or they can be
replaced by objects from a successful fetch. This implies that the RP
 try to acquire and
validate subordinate signed objects, e.g., subordinate CA certiﬁcates, until the next interval when
the RP is scheduled to fetch and process data for this CA instance.

 continue to use cached versions of the

MUST NOT

SHOULD

7.  Publication Repositories

The RPKI publication system model requires that every publication point be associated with one
or more CAs and be non-empty. Upon creation of the publication point associated with a CA, the
CA
least one entry, i.e., a CRL issued by the CA

 create and publish a manifest as well as a CRL. A CA's manifest will always contain at

, corresponding to the scope of this manifest.

[RFC6481]

MUST

Every published signed object in the RPKI
point of the CA that issued the EE certiﬁcate, and is listed in the manifest associated with that CA
certiﬁcate.

 is published in the repository publication

[RFC6488]

8.  Security Considerations

Manifests provide an additional level of protection for RPKI RPs. Manifests can assist an RP in
determining if a repository object has been deleted, occluded, or otherwise removed from view, or
if a publication of a newer version of an object has been suppressed (and an older version of the
object has been substituted).

Manifests cannot repair the eﬀects of such forms of corruption of repository retrieval operations.
However, a manifest enables an RP to determine if a locally maintained copy of a repository is a
complete and up-to-date copy, even when the repository retrieval operation is conducted over an
insecure channel. In cases where the manifest and the retrieved repository contents diﬀer, the
manifest can assist in determining which repository objects form the diﬀerence set in terms of
missing, extraneous, or superseded objects.

Austein, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9286

RPKI Manifests

June 2022

The signing structure of a manifest and the use of the nextUpdate value allow an RP to determine
if the manifest itself is the subject of attempted alteration. The requirement for every repository
publication point to contain at least one manifest allows an RP to determine if the manifest itself
has been occluded from view. Such attacks against the manifest are detectable within the time
frame of the regular schedule of manifest updates. Forms of replay attacks within ﬁner-grained
time frames are not necessarily detectable by the manifest structure.

9.  IANA Considerations

The "RPKI Signed Objects" registry was originally created and populated by
Repository Name Schemes" registry was created by
three-letter ﬁle name extensions. IANA has updated the reference for the "Manifest" row in the
"RPKI Signed Objects" registry to point to this document.

 and created four of the initial

[RFC6481]

[RFC6488]

. The "RPKI

IANA has also updated the following entries to refer to this document instead of RFC 6486:

•

id-mod-rpkiManifest (60) in the "SMI Security for S/MIME Module Identiﬁer
(1.2.840.113549.1.9.16.0)" registry

•

id-ct-rpkiManifest (26) in the "SMI Security for S/MIME CMS Content Type
(1.2.840.113549.1.9.16.1)" registry

•

the "Security considerations" entry in the application media type registration for rpki-
manifest

No other actions are required.

10.  References

10.1.  Normative References

[IANA-NAMING]

IANA "RPKI Repository Name Schemes" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/

,

,

rpki/>
.

[RFC2119]

[RFC5280]

[RFC6481]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
,
rfc2119>
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

,

,
Cooper, D. Santesson, S. Farrell, S. Boeyen, S. Housley, R.
W. Polk "Internet
X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certiﬁcate and Certiﬁcate Revocation List (CRL)
Proﬁle" RFC 5280 DOI 10.17487/RFC5280
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/
.
info/rfc5280>

, May 2008,

, and

,

,

,

,

,
, and
Huston, G. Loomans, R.
,
Repository Structure" RFC 6481 DOI 10.17487/RFC6481
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6481>

G. Michaelson "A Proﬁle for Resource Certiﬁcate
<https://

, February 2012,

,

,

Austein, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9286

RPKI Manifests

June 2022

[RFC6482]

[RFC6487]

[RFC6488]

[RFC7935]

[RFC8174]

[X.690]

,

Lepinski, M. Kent, S.
(ROAs)" RFC 6482 DOI 10.17487/RFC6482
editor.org/info/rfc6482>
.

, and

,

,

,

D. Kong "A Proﬁle for Route Origin Authorizations

, February 2012,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Huston, G. Michaelson, G.
,
Certiﬁcates" RFC 6487 DOI 10.17487/RFC6487
,
,
.
editor.org/info/rfc6487>

, and

R. Loomans "A Proﬁle for X.509 PKIX Resource
<https://www.rfc-

, February 2012,

,

Lepinski, M. Chi, A.
Key Infrastructure (RPKI)" RFC 6488 DOI 10.17487/RFC6488
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6488>

, and

,

,

,

S. Kent "Signed Object Template for the Resource Public

, February 2012,

 and

G. Michaelson, Ed. "The Proﬁle for Algorithms and Key Sizes for
Huston, G.
,
,
Use in the Resource Public Key Infrastructure" RFC 7935 DOI 10.17487/RFC7935
August 2016,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7935>

,

,

,
,
Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
.
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

International Telecommunication Union "Information technology - ASN.1
encoding rules: Speciﬁcation of Basic Encoding Rules (BER), Canonical Encoding
Rules (CER) and Distinguished Encoding Rules (DER)" ITU-T Recommendation X.
690

.
<https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.690-202102-I/en>

, February 2021,

,

,

10.2.  Informative References

[RFC3779]

[RFC5652]

[RFC6480]

[RFC6486]

[RFC6489]

Lynn, C. Kent, S.
K. Seo "X.509 Extensions for IP Addresses and AS
,
, and
Identiﬁers" RFC 3779 DOI 10.17487/RFC3779
,
,
.
editor.org/info/rfc3779>

, June 2004,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Housley, R. "Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS)" STD 70 RFC 5652 DOI
10.17487/RFC5652

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5652>

, September 2009,

,

,

,

,

 and

Lepinski, M.
,
RFC 6480 DOI 10.17487/RFC6480
rfc6480>
.

,

,
S. Kent "An Infrastructure to Support Secure Internet Routing"
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, February 2012,

,

, and
Austein, R. Huston, G. Kent, S.
,
Public Key Infrastructure (RPKI)" RFC 6486 DOI 10.17487/RFC6486
2012,

M. Lepinski "Manifests for the Resource
, February

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6486>

,

,

,

,

Huston, G. Michaelson, G.
in the Resource Public Key Infrastructure (RPKI)" BCP 174 RFC 6489 DOI
10.17487/RFC6489

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6489>

S. Kent "Certiﬁcation Authority (CA) Key Rollover

, February 2012,

, and

,

,

,

,

Austein, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9286

RPKI Manifests

June 2022

Appendix A.  ASN.1 Module

    RPKIManifest { iso(1) member-body(2) us(840) rsadsi(113549)
                   pkcs(1) pkcs9(9) smime(16) mod(0) 60 }

DEFINITIONS EXPLICIT TAGS ::=
   BEGIN

   -- EXPORTS ALL --

   IMPORTS

     CONTENT-TYPE
     FROM CryptographicMessageSyntax-2010 -- in RFC 6268
       { iso(1) member-body(2) us(840) rsadsi(113549) pkcs(1)
         pkcs-9(9) smime(16) modules(0) id-mod-cms-2009(58) } ;

   -- Manifest Content Type

   ct-rpkiManifest CONTENT-TYPE ::=
       { TYPE Manifest IDENTIFIED BY id-ct-rpkiManifest }

   id-smime OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { iso(1) member-body(2)
       us(840) rsadsi(113549) pkcs(1) pkcs9(9) 16 }

   id-ct OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { id-smime 1 }

   id-ct-rpkiManifest OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { id-ct 26 }

   Manifest ::= SEQUENCE {
      version        [0] INTEGER DEFAULT 0,
      manifestNumber     INTEGER (0..MAX),
      thisUpdate         GeneralizedTime,
      nextUpdate         GeneralizedTime,
      fileHashAlg        OBJECT IDENTIFIER,
      fileList           SEQUENCE SIZE (0..MAX) OF FileAndHash
      }

   FileAndHash ::= SEQUENCE {
      file  IA5String,
      hash  BIT STRING
      }

   END

Austein, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9286

RPKI Manifests

June 2022

Appendix B.  Changes since RFC 6486

In 2019, it came to light that multiple RP implementations were in a vulnerable position, possibly
due to perceived ambiguity in the original
[RFC6486]
clarify the innovative concept and application of RPKI manifests in light of real-world
deployment experience in the global Internet routing system, to avoid future problematic cases.

 speciﬁcation. This document attempts to

The following list summarizes the changes between RFC 6486 and this document:

•

Forbidding "sequential-use" EE certiﬁcates and instead mandating "one-time-use" EE
certiﬁcates.

•

Clarifying that manifest EE certiﬁcates are to be issued with a validity period that coincides
with the interval speciﬁed in the manifest eContent, which coincides with the CRL's
thisUpdate and nextUpdate.

•

Clarifying that the manifestNumber is monotonically incremented in steps of 1.

•

Recommending that CA issuers include the applicable CRL's nextUpdate with the manifest's
nextUpdate.

•

Constraining the set of valid characters in FileAndHash ﬁle names.

•

Clarifying that an RP unable to obtain the full set of ﬁles listed on a manifest is considered to
be in a failure state, in which case cached data from a previous attempt should be used (if
available).

•

Clarifying the requirement for a current CRL to be present, listed, and veriﬁed.

•

Removing the notion of "local policy".

Acknowledgements

Mark Reynolds

 in the preparation of the manifest speciﬁcation. Additionally, the authors would like to

The authors would like to acknowledge the contributions from
Bush
Christopher Small
thank
RP behavior. The authors also wish to thank
,
Turner Adianto Wibisono Murray Kucherawy Francesca Palombini Roman Danyliw Lars
Eggert Robert Wilton

 for assistance in clarifying manifest validation and
Tim Bruijnzeels Job Snijders Oleg Muravskiy Sean
,

,
Benjamin Kaduk
, and

 for their helpful review of this document.

George Michaelson

Randy

 and

 and

,
,

,

,

,

,

Authors' Addresses

Rob Austein
Arrcus, Inc.
Email:

 sra@hactrn.net

Austein, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9286

RPKI Manifests

June 2022

Geoﬀ Huston
APNIC
6 Cordelia St
South Brisbane QLD 4101
Australia
Email:

 gih@apnic.net

Stephen Kent
Independent
Email:

 kent@alum.mit.edu

Matt Lepinski
New College Florida
5800 Bay Shore Rd.
Sarasota FL 34243
,
United States of America
Email:

 mlepinski@ncf.edu

Austein, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

