Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9752
7470
Standards Track
April 2025
2070-1721

Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:
C. Li
Huawei Technologies

H. Zheng
Huawei Technologies

S. Sivabalan
Ciena

S. Sidor
Cisco Systems, Inc.

Z. Ali
Cisco Systems, Inc.

RFC 9752
Conveying Vendor-Specific Information in the Path
Computation Element Communication Protocol
(PCEP) Extensions for Stateful PCE

Abstract

This document specifies extensions to the Path Computation Element Communication Protocol
(PCEP) that enable the inclusion of vendor-specific information in stateful Path Computation
Element (PCE) operations. These extensions allow vendors to incorporate proprietary data
within PCEP messages, facilitating enhanced network optimization and functionality in
environments requiring vendor-specific features. The extensions maintain compatibility with
existing PCEP implementations and promote interoperability across diverse network
deployments. RFC 7470 defines a facility to carry vendor-specific information in stateless PCEP
messages. This document extends this capability for the stateful PCEP messages.

This document updates RFC 7470 to specify that Enterprise Numbers are managed through the
"Private Enterprise Numbers (PENs)" registry.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9752
.

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9752

Vendor-Specific Info for Stateful PCE

April 2025

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in effect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9752

Vendor-Specific Info for Stateful PCE

April 2025

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

1.2.  Use of RBNF

2.  Procedures for the Vendor Information Object

3.  Procedures for the Vendor Information TLV

4.  Manageability Considerations

4.1.  Control of Function and Policy

4.2.  Information and Data Models

4.3.  Liveness Detection and Monitoring

4.4.  Verifying Correct Operations

4.5.  Requirements On Other Protocols

4.6.  Impact on Network Operations

5.  IANA Considerations

6.  Security Considerations

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

3

4

4

4

7

7

7

7

7

7

8

8

8

8

9

9

9

10

10

11

The Path Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP)
mechanisms for a Path Computation Element (PCE) to perform path computation in response to
a Path Computation Client (PCC) request.

[RFC5440]

 provides

A stateful PCE is capable of considering, for the purposes of path computation, not only the
network state in terms of links and nodes (referred to as the Traffic Engineering Database or
TED) but also the status of active services (previously computed paths, and currently reserved

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9752

Vendor-Specific Info for Stateful PCE

April 2025

resources, stored in the Label Switched Paths Database (LSP-DB)).
considerations for a stateful PCE deployment and examines its applicability and benefits, as well
as its challenges and limitations through a number of use cases.

 describes general

[RFC8051]

 describes a set of extensions to PCEP to provide stateful control. A stateful PCE has

[RFC8231]
access to not only the information carried by the network's Interior Gateway Protocol (IGP), but
also the set of active paths and their reserved resources for its computations. The additional
state allows the PCE to compute constrained paths while considering individual LSPs and their
 describes the setup, maintenance, and teardown of PCE-initiated LSPs
interactions.
under the stateful PCE model. These extensions add new messages in PCEP for stateful PCE.

[RFC8281]

 defines the Vendor Information object, which can carry arbitrary, proprietary

[RFC7470]
information, such as vendor-specific constraints, in stateless PCEP. It also defines the VENDOR-
INFORMATION-TLV, which allows arbitrary information to be embedded within any existing or
future PCEP object that supports TLVs.

While originally designed for stateless PCEP, the Vendor Information object and VENDOR-
INFORMATION-TLV are also useful in the stateful PCE model. The VENDOR-INFORMATION-TLV
can already be included in any of the stateful PCEP objects per
extends stateful PCEP messages to support the use of the Vendor Information object.

. This document further

[RFC7470]

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

1.2.  Use of RBNF

The message formats in this document are illustrated using Routing Backus-Naur Form (RBNF)
encoding, as specified in
important details; the normative specification of messages is found in the descriptive text. If
there is any divergence between the RBNF and the descriptive text, the descriptive text is
considered authoritative.

. The use of RBNF is illustrative only and may omit certain

[RFC5511]

2.  Procedures for the Vendor Information Object

) is a PCEP message sent by a PCC to a PCE to report the current state of an LSP. A

A Path Computation LSP State Report message (also referred to as PCRpt message; see
of [RFC8231]
PCC that wants to convey proprietary or vendor-specific information or metrics to a PCE does so
by including a Vendor Information object in the PCRpt message. The contents and format of the
object, including the VENDOR-INFORMATION object and the VENDOR-INFORMATION-TLV, are
described in
Vendor Information object by examining the Enterprise Number it contains.

. The PCE determines how to interpret the information in the

Section 4 of [RFC7470]

Section 6.1

[RFC7470]

 stated that:

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9752

Vendor-Specific Info for Stateful PCE

April 2025

Enterprise Numbers are assigned by IANA and managed through an IANA registry
[RFC2578]
.

This document updates

[RFC7470]

 and replaces this text with:

Enterprise Numbers are assigned by IANA and managed through the "Private
Enterprise Numbers (PENs)" registry as described in

[RFC9371]
.

 be contained in a single PCRpt message. Different instances of the object

OPTIONAL

 in a PCRpt message. Multiple instances of the object
 have different

MAY

The Vendor Information object is
MAY
Enterprise Numbers.

The format of the PCRpt message (with
follows:

Section 6.1 of [RFC8231]

 as the base) is updated as

      <PCRpt Message> ::= <Common Header>
                          <state-report-list>

Where:

      <state-report-list> ::= <state-report>[<state-report-list>]

      <state-report> ::= [<SRP>]
                         <LSP>
                         <path>
                         [<vendor-info-list>]

Where:

      <vendor-info-list> ::= <VENDOR-INFORMATION>
                             [<vendor-info-list>]

      <path> is defined in [RFC8231].

Section
A Path Computation LSP Update Request message (also referred to as PCUpd message; see
6.2 of [RFC8231]
) is a PCEP message sent by a PCE to a PCC to update the attributes of an LSP. The
Vendor Information object can be included in a PCUpd message to convey proprietary or vendor-
specific information.

The format of the PCUpd message (using the format described in
base) is updated as follows:

Section 6.2 of [RFC8231]

 as the

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9752

Vendor-Specific Info for Stateful PCE

April 2025

      <PCUpd Message> ::= <Common Header>
                          <update-request-list>

Where:

      <update-request-list> ::= <update-request>
                          [<update-request-list>]

      <update-request> ::= <SRP>
                           <LSP>
                           <path>
                           [<vendor-info-list>]

Where:

      <vendor-info-list> ::= <VENDOR-INFORMATION>
                             [<vendor-info-list>]

      <path> is defined in [RFC8231].

A Path Computation LSP Initiate Message (also referred to as PCInitiate message; see
of [RFC8281]
deletion. The Vendor Information object can be included in a PCInitiate message to convey
proprietary or vendor-specific information.

) is a PCEP message sent by a PCE to a PCC to trigger an LSP instantiation or

Section 5.1

The format of the PCInitiate message (using the format described in
the base) is updated as follows:

Section 5.1 of [RFC8281]

 as

     <PCInitiate Message> ::= <Common Header>
                              <PCE-initiated-lsp-list>

Where:

     <PCE-initiated-lsp-list> ::= <PCE-initiated-lsp-request>
                                  [<PCE-initiated-lsp-list>]

     <PCE-initiated-lsp-request> ::=
                          (<PCE-initiated-lsp-instantiation>|
                           <PCE-initiated-lsp-deletion>)

     <PCE-initiated-lsp-instantiation> ::= <SRP>
                                           <LSP>
                                           [<END-POINTS>]
                                           <ERO>
                                           [<attribute-list>]
                                           [<vendor-info-list>]

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9752

Vendor-Specific Info for Stateful PCE

April 2025

Where:

     <vendor-info-list> ::= <VENDOR-INFORMATION>
                            [<vendor-info-list>]

<PCE-initiated-lsp-deletion> and <attribute-list> are as defined in

[RFC8281]
.

A legacy implementation that does not recognize the Vendor Information object will act
[RFC8231]
according to the procedures set out in
supports the Vendor Information object, but receives one carrying an Enterprise Number that it
Section 2 of [RFC7470]
.
 ignore the object in the same way as described in
does not support,

. An implementation that

[RFC8281]

MUST

 and

3.  Procedures for the Vendor Information TLV

The Vendor Information TLV can be used to carry vendor-specific information that applies to a
specific PCEP object by including the TLV in the object. This includes objects used in Stateful PCE
extensions such as Stateful PCE Request Parameter (SRP) and LSP objects. All of the procedures
are as described in

Section 3 of [RFC7470]
.

4.  Manageability Considerations

All manageability requirements and considerations listed in
and
requirements and considerations listed in this section apply.

[RFC5440] [RFC7470] [RFC8231]
,
 apply to the PCEP protocol extensions defined in this document. In addition, the

[RFC8281]

,

,

4.1.  Control of Function and Policy

The requirements for control of function and policy for vendor-specific information as set out in
[RFC7470] continue to apply to Stateful PCEP extensions specified in this document.

4.2.  Information and Data Models

The PCEP YANG module is specified in
details of vendor-specific information. However, a standard YANG module could be extended to
report the use of the Vendor Information object or TLV and the Enterprise Numbers that the
objects and TLVs contain.

. Any standard YANG module will not include

[PCEP-YANG]

4.3.  Liveness Detection and Monitoring

Mechanisms defined in this document do not imply any new liveness detection and monitoring
requirements in addition to those already listed in

[RFC5440]
.

4.4.  Verifying Correct Operations

Mechanisms defined in this document do not imply any new operation verification
requirements in addition to those already listed in

[RFC8231]
.

[RFC5440]

 and

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9752

Vendor-Specific Info for Stateful PCE

April 2025

4.5.  Requirements On Other Protocols

Mechanisms defined in this document do not imply any new requirements on other protocols.

4.6.  Impact on Network Operations

Mechanisms defined in
document.

[RFC5440]

 and

[RFC8231]

 also apply to PCEP extensions defined in this

Section 6.6 of [RFC7470]
 highlights how the presence of additional vendor-specific information
in PCEP messages may congest the operations and how to detect and handle it. This also applies
to stateful PCEP messages as outlined in Section 2. Specifically, a PCEP speaker
include vendor information in stateful PCEP message if it believes the recipient does not support
that information.

SHOULD NOT

Encoding optimization for the Vendor Information object, for example, in case the object has the
same content encoded for multiple LSPs, is considered out of the scope of this document and
may be proposed in the future as a separate document applicable to other PCEP objects.

5.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

6.  Security Considerations

The protocol extensions defined in this document do not change the nature of PCEP. Therefore,
the security considerations set out in
,
unchanged.

[RFC5440] [RFC7470] [RFC8231]

[RFC8281]

 apply

, and

,

, it is

[RFC8231]

RECOMMENDED

Per
authenticated and encrypted sessions across PCEs and PCCs using Transport Layer Security (TLS)
[RFC8253]
[BCP195]
.

. See the recommendations and best current practices for using TLS in RFC 9325

 that these PCEP extensions only be activated on

[RFC7470]

 and in this document may

The use of vendor-specific information as defined in
provide a covert channel that could be misused by PCEP speaker implementations or by
malicious software at PCEP speakers. While there is limited protection against this, an operator
monitoring the PCEP sessions can detect the use of vendor-specific information, be aware of the
decoding mechanism for this data, and inspect it accordingly. It is crucial for the operator to
remain vigilant and monitor for any potential misuse of this object. Appropriate steps need to be
taken to prevent the installation of malicious software at the PCEP speaker by implementing
robust integrity, authentication, and authorization techniques for installation and updating,
which are out of scope of this document.

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9752

Vendor-Specific Info for Stateful PCE

April 2025

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[BCP195]

Best Current Practice 195,
At the time of writing, this BCP comprises the following:

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/bcp195>
.

Moriarty, K.
DOI 10.17487/RFC8996

 and

S. Farrell "Deprecating TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1" BCP 195 RFC 8996
,

,

,

,

, March 2021,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8996>

.

,

, and

Sheffer, Y. Saint-Andre, P.
,
Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)"
BCP 195 RFC 9325 DOI 10.17487/RFC9325
editor.org/info/rfc9325>

T. Fossati "Recommendations for Secure Use of

, November 2022,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

 and

Vasseur, JP., Ed.
Communication Protocol (PCEP)" RFC 5440 DOI 10.17487/RFC5440
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5440>

JL. Le Roux, Ed. "Path Computation Element (PCE)

,

,

.

, March 2009,

,

Farrel, A. "Routing Backus-Naur Form (RBNF): A Syntax Used to Form Encoding
Rules in Various Routing Protocol Specifications" RFC 5511 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5511

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5511>

, April 2009,

,

,

.

 and

A. Farrel "Conveying Vendor-Specific Constraints in the Path

Zhang, F.
Computation Element Communication Protocol" RFC 7470 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7470

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7470>

, March 2015,

,

,

,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Crabbe, E. Minei, I. Medved, J.
Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for Stateful PCE" RFC 8231 DOI
10.17487/RFC8231

R. Varga "Path Computation Element

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8231>

, September 2017,

, and

,

,

,

,

.

,

,

Crabbe, E. Minei, I. Sivabalan, S.
R. Varga "Path Computation Element
Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for PCE-Initiated LSP Setup in a
Stateful PCE Model" RFC 8281 DOI 10.17487/RFC8281
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8281>

, December 2017,

, and

,

,

,

.

<https://

[RFC2119]

[RFC5440]

[RFC5511]

[RFC7470]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8231]

[RFC8281]

7.2.  Informative References

[PCEP-YANG]

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9752

Vendor-Specific Info for Stateful PCE

April 2025

,

Dhody, D., Ed. Beeram, V. P. Hardwick, J.
for Path Computation Element Communications Protocol (PCEP)" Work in
Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-pce-pcep-yang-30
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-pce-pcep-yang-30>

, 26 January 2025,

J. Tantsura "A YANG Data Model

<https://

, and

,

.

,

,

,

[RFC2578]

[RFC8051]

[RFC8253]

[RFC9371]

McCloghrie, K., Ed. Perkins, D., Ed.
Management Information Version 2 (SMIv2)" STD 58 RFC 2578 DOI 10.17487/
RFC2578

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2578>

J. Schoenwaelder, Ed. "Structure of

, April 1999,

, and

,
.

,

,

,

,

Zhang, X., Ed.
 and
Element (PCE)" RFC 8051 DOI 10.17487/RFC8051
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8051>

,

.

I. Minei, Ed. "Applicability of a Stateful Path Computation

,

, January 2017,

<https://

,

Lopez, D. Gonzalez de Dios, O. Wu, Q.
Provide a Secure Transport for the Path Computation Element Communication
Protocol (PCEP)" RFC 8253 DOI 10.17487/RFC8253
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8253>

D. Dhody "PCEPS: Usage of TLS to

, October 2017,

<https://

, and

,

,

.

,

 and

Baber, A.
,
Numbers (PENs)" RFC 9371 DOI 10.17487/RFC9371
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9371>

P. Hoffman "Registration Procedures for Private Enterprise
<https://

, March 2023,

,

,

.

Acknowledgments

Thanks to
and suggestions.

Dhruv Dhody

 for shepherding the document and for their significant contributions

,

Adrian Farrel Avantika Deb Cooley Éric Vyncke Gunter Van de Velde John Scudder

,
Thanks to
Mahendra Singh Negi Mahesh Jethanandani Mike McBride Murray Kucherawy Orie Steele
,
Paul Wouters Roman Danyliw Susan Hares Swapna K Udayasree Palle Warren Kumari
,
Wassim Haddad

,
Xiao Min
 for their reviews, comments, and suggestions.

, and

,
,

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Contributors

Dhruv Dhody
Huawei
India
Email:

dhruv.ietf@gmail.com

Mike Koldychev
Ciena
Email:

mkoldych@proton.me

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9752

Vendor-Specific Info for Stateful PCE

April 2025

Authors' Addresses

Cheng Li
Huawei Technologies
Huawei Campus, No. 156 Beiqing Rd.
Beijing
100095
China
Email:

c.l@huawei.com

Haomian Zheng
Huawei Technologies
H1, Huawei Xiliu Beipo Village, Songshan Lake
Dongguan
Guangdong 523808
China
Email:

zhenghaomian@huawei.com

,

Siva Sivabalan
Ciena
385 Terry Fox Drive
Kanata Ontario K2K 0L1
Canada
Email:

msiva282@gmail.com

Samuel Sidor
Cisco Systems, Inc.
Email:

ssidor@cisco.com

Zafar Ali
Cisco Systems, Inc.
Email:

zali@cisco.com

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

