Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9650
5029
Standards Track
August 2024
2070-1721
T. Li
Juniper Networks

RFC 9650
Revision to Registration Procedures for IS-IS
Neighbor Link-Attribute Bit Values

Abstract

RFC 5029, "Definition of an IS-IS Link Attribute Sub-TLV", defines an IANA registry called "IS-IS
Neighbor Link-Attribute Bit Values". This document changes the registration procedure for that
registry from "Standards Action" to "Expert Review". This document updates RFC 5029.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9650
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Li

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9650

Link-Attribute Bit Values Registration

August 2024

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  IANA Considerations

3.  Security Considerations

4.  References

4.1.  Normative References

4.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

2

2

2

2

2

3

3

3

[RFC5029]
 defines the "IS-IS Neighbor Link-Attribute Bit Values" registry and specifies a
registration procedure of "Standards Action". In practice, this registration procedure is
unnecessarily restrictive, as it prevents allocation of bits to experimental protocols, which in
turn increases the risk of conflicts introduced by use of unregistered code points (so-called "code
point squatting").

Accordingly, this document changes the registration procedure for the registry, as described in
Section 2.

2.  IANA Considerations

IANA has changed the registration procedure for the "IS-IS Neighbor Link-Attribute Bit Values"
[RFC8126]
registry to "Expert Review"
registry. General guidance for the designated experts is defined in
guidance can be found in

 and has listed this document as a reference for the

, and more specific

[RFC5029]
.

[RFC7370]

3.  Security Considerations

This document does not affect the security issues discussed in

[RFC5029]
.

4.  References

4.1.  Normative References

Li

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9650

Link-Attribute Bit Values Registration

August 2024

[RFC5029]

S. Previdi "Definition of an IS-IS Link Attribute Sub-TLV" RFC

,

, September 2007,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

Vasseur, JP.
 and
5029 DOI 10.17487/RFC5029
,
rfc5029>

,

.

4.2.  Informative References

[RFC7370]

[RFC8126]

Ginsberg, L. "Updates to the IS-IS TLV Codepoints Registry" RFC 7370 DOI
10.17487/RFC7370

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7370>

, September 2014,

,

,

,

.

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

, June

Acknowledgements

The author would like to thank

John Scudder

 for his contributions.

Author's Address

Tony Li
Juniper Networks
Email:

tony.li@tony.li

Li

Standards Track

Page 3

