Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9463
Standards Track
November 2023
2070-1721
M. Boucadair,
Orange

T. Reddy.K,
Nokia

 Ed.

 Ed.

Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

T. Jensen
Microsoft

D. Wing
Cloud Software Group

N. Cook
Open-Xchange

RFC 9463
DHCP and Router Advertisement Options for the
Discovery of Network-designated Resolvers (DNR)

Abstract

This document specifies new DHCP and IPv6 Router Advertisement options to discover encrypted
DNS resolvers (e.g., DNS over HTTPS, DNS over TLS, and DNS over QUIC). Particularly, it allows a
host to learn an Authentication Domain Name together with a list of IP addresses and a set of
service parameters to reach such encrypted DNS resolvers.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9463
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9463

DNR

November 2023

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  Overview

3.1.  Configuration Data for Encrypted DNS

3.1.1.  ADN as Reference Identifier for DNS Authentication

3.1.2.  Avoiding Dependency on External Resolvers

3.1.3.  Single vs. Multiple IP Addresses

3.1.4.  Why Not Separate Options for the ADN and IP Addresses?

3.1.5.  Service Parameters

3.1.6.  ADN-Only Mode

3.1.7.  Ordering of Encrypted DNS Options

3.1.8.  DNR Validation Checks

3.1.9.  DNR Information Using Other Provisioning Mechanisms

3.2.  Handling Configuration Data Conflicts

3.3.  Validating Discovered Resolvers

3.4.  Multihoming Considerations

4.  DHCPv6 Encrypted DNS Option

4.1.  Option Format

4.2.  DHCPv6 Client Behavior

5.  DHCPv4 Encrypted DNS Option

5.1.  Option Format

5.2.  DHCPv4 Client Behavior

6.  IPv6 RA Encrypted DNS Option

6.1.  Option Format

6.2.  IPv6 Host Behavior

3

4

4

4

4

5

5

5

5

6

6

6

7

7

7

8

8

8

10

11

11

13

14

14

15

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9463

DNR

November 2023

7.  Security Considerations

7.1.  Spoofing Attacks

7.2.  Deletion Attacks

7.3.  Passive Attacks

7.4.  Wireless Security - Authentication Attacks

8.  Privacy Considerations

9.  IANA Considerations

9.1.  DHCPv6 Option

9.2.  DHCPv4 Option

9.3.  Neighbor Discovery Option

10. References

10.1.  Normative References

10.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

16

16

16

17

17

17

18

18

18

18

18

18

19

22

22

23

This document focuses on the discovery of encrypted DNS resolvers that are using protocols such
as DNS over HTTPS (DoH)
[RFC9250]

, or DNS over QUIC (DoQ)

, DNS over TLS (DoT)

 in local networks.

[RFC8484]

[RFC7858]

In particular, this document specifies how a local encrypted DNS resolver can be discovered by
connected hosts by means of DHCPv4
[RFC4861]
Advertisement (RA) options
information: the DNS Authentication Domain Name (ADN), a list of IP addresses, and a set of
service parameters. This procedure is called Discovery of Network-designated Resolvers (DNR).

[RFC2132]
. These options are designed to convey the following

, and IPv6 Router

[RFC8415]

, DHCPv6

The options defined in this document can be deployed in a variety of deployments (e.g., local
networks with Customer Premises Equipment (CPEs) that may or may not be managed by an
Internet Service Provider (ISP), or local networks with or without DNS forwarders). Providing an
inventory of such deployments is beyond the scope of this document.

Resolver selection considerations are out of scope. Likewise, policies (including any interactions
with users) are out of scope.

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9463

DNR

November 2023

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

This document makes use of the terms defined in
used:

[RFC8499]

. The following additional terms are

Authentication Domain Name (ADN):
authenticate a DNS resolver.

Refers to a domain name that is used by a DNS client to

ADN-only mode:

Refers to a DNS discovery mode where only the ADN of the DNS resolver is

retrieved. See Section 3.1.6.

Do53:

Refers to unencrypted DNS.

DNR:

Refers to the procedure called Discovery of Network-designated Resolvers.

Encrypted DNS:

Refers to a scheme where DNS exchanges are transported over an encrypted

channel. Examples include DoT, DoH, and DoQ.

Encrypted DNS resolver:

Refers to a DNS resolver that supports any encrypted DNS scheme.

Encrypted DNS options:

Refers to the options defined in Sections 4, 5, and 6.

DHCP:

Refers to both DHCPv4 and DHCPv6.

3.  Overview

This document describes how a DNS client can discover local encrypted DNS resolvers using
DHCP (Sections 4 and 5) and Neighbor Discovery protocol (Section 6) Encrypted DNS options.

These options configure an ADN, a list of IP addresses, and a set of service parameters of the
encrypted DNS resolver. More information about the design of these options is provided in the
following subsections.

3.1.  Configuration Data for Encrypted DNS

3.1.1.  ADN as Reference Identifier for DNS Authentication

In order to allow for a PKIX-based authentication of the encrypted DNS resolver to the DNS
client, the Encrypted DNS options are designed to always include an ADN. This ADN is presented
as a reference identifier for DNS authentication purposes. This design accommodates the current
best practices for issuing certificates as per

Section 1.7.2 of [RFC6125]
:

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9463

DNR

November 2023

Some certification authorities issue server certificates based on IP addresses, but
preliminary evidence indicates that such certificates are a very small percentage
(less than 1%) of issued certificates.

3.1.2.  Avoiding Dependency on External Resolvers

To avoid adding a dependency on another server to resolve the ADN, the Encrypted DNS options
return the IP address(es) to locate an encrypted DNS resolver. These encrypted DNS resolvers
may be hosted on the same IP address or distinct IP addresses. Such a decision is deployment
specific.

In order to optimize the size of discovery messages when all DNS resolvers terminate on the
same IP address, early draft versions of this document considered relying upon the discovery
mechanisms specified in
 to retrieve a list of IP addresses to
, and
reach their DNS resolvers. Nevertheless, this approach requires a client that supports more than
one encrypted DNS protocol (e.g., DoH and DoT) to probe that list of IP addresses. To avoid such
probing, the options defined in Sections 4, 5, and 6 associate an encrypted DNS protocol with an
IP address. No probing is required in such a design.

[RFC2132] [RFC3646]
,

[RFC8106]

3.1.3.  Single vs. Multiple IP Addresses

A list of IP addresses to reach an encrypted DNS resolver may be returned in an Encrypted DNS
option to accommodate current deployments relying upon primary and backup resolvers. Also,
DNR can be used in contexts where other DNS redundancy schemes (e.g., anycast as discussed in
BCP 126 [RFC4786]

) are used.

Whether one or more IP addresses are returned in an Encrypted DNS option is deployment
specific. For example, a router embedding a recursive server or a forwarder has to include one
single IP address pointing to one of its LAN-facing interfaces. Typically, this IP address can be a
private IPv4 address, a Link-Local address, an IPv6 Unique Local Address (ULA), or a Global
Unicast Address (GUA).

If multiple IP addresses are to be returned in an Encrypted DNS option, these addresses are
returned, ordered by preference, for use by the client.

3.1.4.  Why Not Separate Options for the ADN and IP Addresses?

A single option is used to convey both the ADN and IP addresses. Otherwise, a means to correlate
an IP address conveyed in an option with an ADN conveyed in another option will be required if,
for example, more than one ADN is supported by the network.

3.1.5.  Service Parameters

Because distinct encrypted DNS protocols (e.g., DoT, DoH, and DoQ) may be provisioned by a
network and some of these protocols may make use of customized port numbers instead of
default port numbers, the Encrypted DNS options are designed to return a set of service
parameters. These parameters are encoded following the same rules for encoding SvcParams
Section 2.2 of [RFC9460]
using the wire format specified in

. This encoding approach may increase

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9463

DNR

November 2023

the size of the options, but it has the merit of relying upon an existing IANA registry and, thus,
accommodating new encrypted DNS protocols and service parameters that may be defined in the
future.

The following service parameters

MUST

 be supported by a DNR implementation:

alpn:

Used to indicate the set of supported protocols (

Section 7.1 of [RFC9460]

).

port:

Used to indicate the target port number for the encrypted DNS connection (

Section 7.2 of

[RFC9460]

).

In addition, the following service parameter is
implementation:

RECOMMENDED

 to be supported by a DNR

dohpath:

Used to supply a relative DoH URI Template (

Section 5.1 of [RFC9461]

).

3.1.6.  ADN-Only Mode

The provisioning mode in which an ADN, a list of IP addresses, and a set of service parameters of
the encrypted DNS resolver are supplied to a host
options are self-contained and do not require any additional DNS queries. The reader may refer
to
populate configuration data (e.g., issue DNS queries).

 for an overview of advanced capabilities that are supported by DHCP servers to

 be used because the Encrypted DNS

[RFC7969]

SHOULD

In contexts where putting additional complexity on requesting hosts is acceptable, returning an
ADN only can be considered. The supplied ADN will be passed to a local resolution library (a DNS
client, typically), which will then issue Service Binding (SVCB) queries
queries can be sent to the discovered encrypted DNS resolver itself or to the network-designated
Do53 resolver. Note that this mode may be subject to active attacks, which can be mitigated by
DNSSEC.

. These SVCB

[RFC9461]

How an ADN is passed to a local resolution library is implementation specific.

3.1.7.  Ordering of Encrypted DNS Options

The DHCP options defined in Sections 4 and 5 follow the option ordering guidelines in
of [RFC7227]
.

Section 17

Likewise, the RA option (Section 6) adheres to the recommendations in

Section 9 of [RFC4861]
.

3.1.8.  DNR Validation Checks

On receipt of an Encrypted DNS option, the DHCP client (or IPv6 host) makes the following
validation checks:

•

The ADN is present and encoded as per

Section 10 of [RFC8415]

.

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9463

DNR

November 2023

•

If additional data is supplied:

.

The service parameters are encoded following the rules specified in
◦
[RFC9460]
◦
The option includes at least one valid IP address.
◦
The service parameters do not include "ipv4hint" or "ipv6hint" parameters.

Section 2.2 of

If any of the checks fail, the receiver discards the received Encrypted DNS option.

3.1.9.  DNR Information Using Other Provisioning Mechanisms

) or may not be suitable in some contexts (e.g., where secure discovery is needed). Other

The provisioning mechanisms specified in this document may not be available in specific
networks (e.g., some cellular networks exclusively use Protocol Configuration Options (PCOs)
24008]
mechanisms may be considered in these contexts for the provisioning of encrypted DNS
resolvers. It is
requesting host:

 that at least the following DNR information be made available to a

RECOMMENDED

[TS.

•

A service priority whenever the discovery mechanism does not rely on implicit ordering if
multiple instances of the encrypted DNS are used.

•

An ADN. This parameter is mandatory.

•

A list of IP addresses to locate the encrypted DNS resolver.

•

A set of service parameters.

3.2.  Handling Configuration Data Conflicts

If encrypted DNS resolvers are discovered by a host using both RA and DHCP, the rules discussed
in

Section 5.3.1 of [RFC8106] MUST

 be followed.

DHCP/RA options to discover encrypted DNS resolvers (including DoH URI Templates) takes
precedence over Discovery of Designated Resolvers (DDR)
, since DDR uses Do53 to an
external DNS resolver, which is susceptible to both internal and external attacks whereas DHCP/
RA is typically protected using the mechanisms discussed in Section 7.1.

[RFC9462]

If a client learns both Do53 and encrypted DNS resolvers from the same network, and absent
explicit configuration otherwise, it is
RECOMMENDED
resolvers for that network. If the client cannot establish an authenticated and encrypted
connection with the encrypted DNS resolver, it may fall back to using the Do53 resolver.

 that the client use the encrypted DNS

3.3.  Validating Discovered Resolvers

This section describes a set of validation checks to confirm that an encrypted DNS resolver
matches what is provided using DNR (e.g., DHCP or RA). Such validation checks do not intend to
validate the security of the DNR provisioning mechanisms or the user's trust relationship to the
network.

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9463

DNR

November 2023

If the local DNS client supports one of the discovered encrypted DNS protocols identified by
Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation (ALPN) protocol identifiers (or another service parameter
that indicates some other protocol disambiguation mechanism), the DNS client establishes an
encrypted DNS session following the service priority of the discovered encrypted resolvers.

The DNS client verifies the connection based on PKIX validation
 to compare the ADN
[RFC6125]
certificate and uses the validation techniques as described in
Section 8.1 of [RFC8310]
conveyed in the Encrypted DNS options to the certificate provided (see
for more details). The DNS client uses the default system or application PKI trust anchors unless
configured otherwise to use explicit trust anchors. ALPN-related considerations can be found in
Section 7.1 of [RFC9460]
. Operational considerations related to checking the revocation status of
the certificate of an encrypted DNS resolver are discussed in

Section 10 of [RFC8484]
.

 of the DNS resolver

[RFC5280]

3.4.  Multihoming Considerations

Devices may be connected to multiple networks, each providing their own DNS configuration
using the discovery mechanisms specified in this document. Nevertheless, discussing DNS
selection of multi-interfaced devices is beyond the scope of this specification. Such
considerations fall under the generic issue of handling multiple provisioning sources and should
not be processed in each option separately, as per the recommendation in
[RFC7227]
.

Section 12 of

[RFC6731]

The reader may refer to
DNS resolver selection for multi-interfaced devices. Also, the reader may refer to
Authority]
4.3 of [RFC8801]

 for a discussion of DNS selection issues and an example of
[Local-DNS-

 for a discussion on how DNR and Provisioning Domain (PvD) key "dnsZones" (

) can be used in "split DNS" environments (

Section 6 of [RFC8499]

).

Section

4.  DHCPv6 Encrypted DNS Option

4.1.  Option Format

The format of the DHCPv6 Encrypted DNS option is shown in Figure 1.

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9463

DNR

November 2023

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|       OPTION_V6_DNR           |         Option-length         |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|       Service Priority        |         ADN Length            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
~                   authentication-domain-name                  ~
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|         Addr Length           |                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+                               |
~                        ipv6-address(es)                       ~
|                               +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                               |                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+                               |
~                 Service Parameters (SvcParams)                ~
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 1: DHCPv6 Encrypted DNS Option

The fields of the option shown in Figure 1 are as follows:

Option-code:

OPTION_V6_DNR (144; see Section 9.1).

Option-length:

Length of the enclosed data in octets. The option length is ('ADN Length' + 4)

when only an ADN is included in the option.

Service Priority:

The priority of this OPTION_V6_DNR instance compared to other instances.

This 16-bit unsigned integer is interpreted following the rules specified in
[RFC9460]

.

Section 2.4.1 of

ADN Length:

Length of the authentication-domain-name field in octets.

authentication-domain-name (variable length):

A Fully Qualified Domain Name (FQDN) of the

encrypted DNS resolver. This field is formatted as specified in

Section 10 of [RFC8415]
.

An example of the authentication-domain-name encoding is shown in Figure 2. This example
conveys the FQDN "doh1.example.com.", and the resulting ADN Length field is 18.

+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
| 0x04 |   d  |   o  |   h  |  1   | 0x07 |   e  |   x  |   a  |
+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
|   m  |   p  |   l  |   e  | 0x03 |   c  |   o  |   m  | 0x00 |
+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+

Figure 2: An Example of the DNS authentication-domain-name Encoding

Addr Length:
of 16.

Length of enclosed IPv6 addresses in octets. When present, it

MUST

 be a multiple

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9463

DNR

November 2023

ipv6-address(es) (variable length):

Indicates one or more IPv6 addresses to reach the encrypted

DNS resolver. An address can be a Link-Local address, a ULA, or a GUA. The format of this
field is shown in Figure 3.

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                                                               |
|                         ipv6-address                          |
|                                                               |
|                                                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                              ...                              |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 3: Format of the ipv6-address(es) Field

Service Parameters (SvcParams) (variable length):

Specifies a set of service parameters that are

Section 2.2 of [RFC9460]

encoded following the rules in
example, a list of ALPN protocol identifiers or alternate port numbers. This field
include at least the "alpn" SvcParam. The "alpn" SvcParam may not be required in contexts
such as a variant of DNS over the Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP) where messages
are encrypted using Object Security for Constrained RESTful Environments (OSCORE)
[RFC8613]
they are superseded by the included IP addresses.

 include "ipv4hint" or "ipv6hint" SvcParams, as

. Service parameters may include, for

. The service parameters

MUST NOT

SHOULD

If no port service parameter is included, this indicates that default port numbers should be
used. As a reminder, the default port number is 853 for DoT, 443 for DoH, and 853 for DoQ.

The length of this field is ('Option-length' - 6 - 'ADN Length' - 'Addr Length').

Note that the "Addr Length", "ipv6-address(es)", and "Service Parameters (SvcParams)" fields are
not present if the ADN-only mode is used (Section 3.1.6).

4.2.  DHCPv6 Client Behavior

To discover an encrypted DNS resolver, the DHCPv6 client
Option Request Option (ORO), per Sections 18.2.1, 18.2.2, 18.2.4, 18.2.5, 18.2.6, and 21.7 of
[RFC8415]
.

 include OPTION_V6_DNR in an

MUST

MUST

 be prepared to receive multiple instances of the OPTION_V6_DNR
The DHCPv6 client
option; each option is to be treated as a separate encrypted DNS resolver. These instances
be processed following their service priority (i.e., a smaller service priority value indicates a
higher preference).

MUST

The DHCPv6 client
steps defined in Section 3.1.8.

MUST

 silently discard any OPTION_V6_DNR that fails to pass the validation

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9463

DNR

November 2023

The DHCPv6 client
OPTION_V6_DNR.

MUST

 silently discard multicast and host loopback addresses conveyed in

5.  DHCPv4 Encrypted DNS Option

5.1.  Option Format

The format of the DHCPv4 Encrypted DNS option is illustrated in Figure 4.

 0                   1
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| OPTION_V4_DNR |     Length    |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
~      DNR Instance Data #1     ~
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+   ---
.              ...              .    |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ optional
~      DNR Instance Data #n     ~    |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+   ---

Figure 4: DHCPv4 Encrypted DNS Option

The fields of the option shown in Figure 4 are as follows:

Code:

OPTION_V4_DNR (162; see Section 9.2).

Length:

Indicates the length of the enclosed data in octets.

DNR Instance Data:

Includes the configuration data of an encrypted DNS resolver. The format

of this field is shown in Figure 5.

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9463

DNR

November 2023

 0                   1
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|    DNR Instance Data Length   |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|       Service Priority        |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   ADN Length  |               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+               |
~  authentication-domain-name   ~
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|  Addr Length  |               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+               |
~        IPv4 Address(es)       ~
|               +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|               |               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+               |
~Service Parameters (SvcParams) ~
|                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 5: DNR Instance Data Format

When several encrypted DNS resolvers are to be included, the "DNR Instance Data" field is
repeated.

The fields shown in Figure 5 are as follows:

DNR Instance Data Length:

Length of all following data in octets. This field is set to ('ADN

Length' + 3) when only an ADN is provided for a DNR instance.

Service Priority:

unsigned integer is interpreted following the rules specified in

The priority of this instance compared to other DNR instances. This 16-bit
Section 2.4.1 of [RFC9460]

.

ADN Length:

Length of the authentication-domain-name field in octets.

authentication-domain-name (variable length):

The ADN of the encrypted DNS resolver. This

field is formatted as specified in

Section 10 of [RFC8415]

. An example is provided in Figure 2.

Addr Length:
of 4.

Length of included IPv4 addresses in octets. When present, it

MUST

 be a multiple

IPv4 Address(es) (variable length):

Indicates one or more IPv4 addresses to reach the encrypted
DNS resolver. Both private and public IPv4 addresses can be included in this field. The format
of this field is shown in Figure 6. This format assumes that an IPv4 address is encoded as
a1.a2.a3.a4.

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9463

DNR

November 2023

0     8     16    24    32    40    48
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+--
|  a1 |  a2 |  a3 |  a4 |  a1 |  a2 | ...
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+--
  IPv4 Address 1          IPv4 Address 2 ...

Figure 6: Format of the IPv4 Address(es) Field

Service Parameters (SvcParams) (variable length): Specifies a set of service parameters that are

Section 2.2 of [RFC9460]

encoded following the rules in
example, a list of ALPN protocol identifiers or alternate port numbers. This field
include at least the "alpn" SvcParam. The "alpn" SvcParam may not be required in contexts
such as a variant of DNS over CoAP where messages are encrypted using OSCORE. The service
parameters
 include "ipv4hint" or "ipv6hint" SvcParams, as they are superseded by
the included IP addresses.

. Service parameters may include, for

MUST NOT

SHOULD

If no port service parameter is included, this indicates that default port numbers should be
used.

The length of this field is ('DNR Instance Data Length' - 4 - 'ADN Length' - 'Addr Length').

Note that the "Addr Length", "IPv4 Address(es)", and "Service Parameters (SvcParams)" fields are
not present if the ADN-only mode is used (Section 3.1.6).

OPTION_V4_DNR is a concatenation-requiring option. As such, the mechanism specified in
[RFC3396] MUST
octets.

 be used if OPTION_V4_DNR exceeds the maximum DHCPv4 option size of 255

5.2.  DHCPv4 Client Behavior

To discover an encrypted DNS resolver, the DHCPv4 client requests the encrypted DNS resolver
by including OPTION_V4_DNR in a Parameter Request List option

[RFC2132]
.

MUST

 be prepared to receive multiple "DNR Instance Data" field entries in the

The DHCPv4 client
OPTION_V4_DNR option; each instance is to be treated as a separate encrypted DNS resolver.
These instances
MUST
value indicates a higher preference).

 be processed following their service priority (i.e., a smaller service priority

The DHCPv4 client
steps defined in Section 3.1.8.

MUST

 silently discard any OPTION_V4_DNR that fails to pass the validation

The DHCPv4 client
OPTION_V4_DNR.

MUST

 silently discard multicast and host loopback addresses conveyed in

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9463

DNR

November 2023

6.  IPv6 RA Encrypted DNS Option

6.1.  Option Format

This section defines a new Neighbor Discovery option
option. This option is useful in contexts similar to those discussed in

[RFC4861]

: the IPv6 RA Encrypted DNS
Section 1.1 of [RFC8106]
.

The format of the IPv6 RA Encrypted DNS option is illustrated in Figure 7.

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|     Type      |     Length    |        Service Priority       |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                           Lifetime                            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|          ADN Length           |                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+                               |
~                   authentication-domain-name                  ~
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|         Addr Length           |                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+                               |
~                        ipv6-address(es)                       ~
|                               +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                               |     SvcParams Length          |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
~                 Service Parameters (SvcParams)                ~
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 7: RA Encrypted DNS Option

The fields of the option shown in Figure 7 are as follows:

Type:

8-bit identifier of the Encrypted DNS option as assigned by IANA (144; see Section 9.3).

Length:

8-bit unsigned integer. The length of the option (including the Type and Length fields) is

in units of 8 octets.

Service Priority:

16-bit unsigned integer. The priority of this Encrypted DNS option instance

compared to other instances. This field is interpreted following the rules specified in
2.4.1 of [RFC9460]

.

Section

Lifetime:

32-bit unsigned integer. This represents the maximum time in seconds (relative to the

time the packet is received) over which the discovered ADN is valid.

The value of Lifetime
MaxRtrAdvInterval is the maximum RA interval as defined in

SHOULD

 by default be at least 3 * MaxRtrAdvInterval, where

[RFC4861]
.

A value of all one bits (0xffffffff) represents infinity.

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9463

DNR

November 2023

A value of zero means that this ADN

MUST

 no longer be used.

ADN Length:

16-bit unsigned integer. This field indicates the length of the authentication-

domain-name field in octets.

authentication-domain-name (variable length):

The ADN of the encrypted DNS resolver. This

field is formatted as specified in

Section 10 of [RFC8415]

.

Addr Length:

16-bit unsigned integer. This field indicates the length of enclosed IPv6 addresses

in octets. When present, it

MUST

 be a multiple of 16.

ipv6-address(es) (variable length):

One or more IPv6 addresses of the encrypted DNS resolver.

An address can be a Link-Local address, a ULA, or a GUA.

All of the addresses share the same Lifetime value. As also discussed in
desirable to have different Lifetime values per IP address, multiple Encrypted DNS options
may be used.

[RFC8106]

, if it is

The format of this field is shown in Figure 3.

SvcParams Length:

16-bit unsigned integer. This field indicates the length of the "Service

Parameters (SvcParams)" field in octets.

Service Parameters (SvcParams) (variable length):

Specifies a set of service parameters that are

Section 2.2 of [RFC9460]

encoded following the rules in
example, a list of ALPN protocol identifiers or alternate port numbers. This field
include at least the "alpn" SvcParam. The "alpn" SvcParam may not be required in contexts
such as a variant of DNS over CoAP where messages are encrypted using OSCORE. The service
parameters
 include "ipv4hint" or "ipv6hint" SvcParams, as they are superseded by
the included IP addresses.

. Service parameters may include, for

MUST NOT

SHOULD

If no port service parameter is included, this indicates that default port numbers should be
used.

Note that the "Addr Length", "ipv6-address(es)", and "Service Parameters (SvcParams)" fields are
not present if the ADN-only mode is used (Section 3.1.6).

The option
Section 4.6 of [RFC4861]
(

MUST

).

 be padded with zeros so that the full enclosed data is a multiple of 8 octets

6.2.  IPv6 Host Behavior

The procedure for DNS configuration is the same as it is with any other Neighbor Discovery
option
[RFC4861]
Section 5.3.1 of [RFC8106]
requirements listed in Section 6.1 and the validation checks listed in Section 3.1.8 substituted for
length and field validations.

. In addition, the host follows the same procedure as the procedure described in

 for processing received Encrypted DNS options, with the formatting

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9463

DNR

November 2023

 be prepared to receive multiple Encrypted DNS options in RAs. These instances

 be processed following their service priority (i.e., a smaller service priority value indicates

MUST

The host
MUST
a higher preference).

The host
DNS options.

MUST

 silently discard multicast and host loopback addresses conveyed in the Encrypted

7.  Security Considerations

7.1.  Spoofing Attacks

DHCP/RA messages are not encrypted or protected against modification within the LAN. Unless
spoofing attacks are mitigated as described below, the content of DHCP and RA messages can be
spoofed or modified by active attackers, such as compromised devices within the local network.
An active attacker (
attacker's encrypted DNS resolver. Note that such an attacker can launch other attacks as
discussed in
. The attacker can get a domain name with a domain-
validated public certificate from a Certificate Authority (CA) and host an encrypted DNS resolver.

) can spoof the DHCP/RA response to provide the

Section 3.3 of [RFC3552]

Section 22 of [RFC8415]

Attacks of spoofed or modified DHCP responses and RA messages by attackers within the local
network may be mitigated by making use of the following mechanisms:

DHCPv6-Shield

[RFC7610]
:

The network access node (e.g., a border router, a CPE, an Access

Point (AP)) discards DHCP response messages received from any local endpoint.

RA-Guard

[RFC7113]
:

The network access node discards RA messages received from any local

endpoint.

Source Address Validation Improvement (SAVI) solution for DHCP
access node filters packets with forged source IP addresses.

[RFC7513]
:

The network

The above mechanisms would ensure that the endpoint receives the correct configuration
information of the encrypted DNS resolvers selected by the DHCP server (or RA sender), but
these mechanisms cannot provide any information about the DHCP server or the entity hosting
the DHCP server (or RA sender).

Encrypted DNS sessions with rogue resolvers that spoof the IP address of a DNS resolver will fail
because the DNS client will fail to authenticate that rogue resolver based upon PKIX
authentication
ignore authentication failures and accept spoofed certificates will be subject to attacks (e.g.,
attacks that redirect to malicious resolvers or intercept sensitive data).

, particularly the ADN in the Encrypted DNS option. DNS clients that

[RFC6125]

7.2.  Deletion Attacks

If the DHCP responses or RAs are dropped by the attacker, the client can fall back to using a
preconfigured encrypted DNS resolver. However, the use of policies to select resolvers is beyond
the scope of this document.

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9463

DNR

November 2023

Note that deletion attacks are not specific to DHCP/RA.

7.3.  Passive Attacks

Section 3.2 of [RFC3552]

A passive attacker (
discover an encrypted DNS resolver and can infer that the host is capable of using DoH/DoT/DoQ
to encrypt DNS messages. However, a passive attacker cannot spoof or modify DHCP/RA
messages.

) can determine that a host is using DHCP/RA to

7.4.  Wireless Security - Authentication Attacks

Wireless LANs (WLANs), frequently deployed in local networks (e.g., home networks), are
,
vulnerable to various attacks (e.g.,
only cryptographically authenticated communications are trusted on WLANs. This means that
any information (e.g., regarding NTP servers, DNS resolvers, or domain search lists) provided by
such networks via DHCP, DHCPv6, or RA is untrusted because DHCP and RA messages are not
authenticated.

[Evil-Twin] [Krack] [Dragonblood]

). Because of these attacks,

,

If the pre-shared key (PSK) is the same for all clients that connect to the same WLAN (e.g., Wi-Fi
Protected Access Pre-Shared Key (WPA-PSK)), the shared key will be available to all nodes,
including attackers. As such, it is possible to mount an active on-path attack. On-path attacks are
possible within local networks because this form of WLAN authentication lacks peer entity
authentication.

This leads to the need for provisioning unique credentials for different clients. Endpoints can be
provisioned with unique credentials (username and password, typically) provided by the local
network administrator to mutually authenticate to the local WLAN AP (e.g., 802.1x Wireless User
Authentication on OpenWrt
Authentication Protocol")). Not all endpoint devices (e.g., Internet of Things (IoT) devices) support
802.1x supplicants and need an alternate mechanism to connect to the local network. To address
this limitation, unique PSKs can be created for each such device and WPA-PSK is used (e.g.,
[IPSK]

 ("EAP" stands for "Extensible

, EAP-pwd

[RFC8146]

[dot1x]

).

8.  Privacy Considerations

 and in

[RFC7824]

Privacy considerations that are also specific to DNR provisioning mechanisms are discussed in
Section 23 of [RFC8415]
. Anonymity profiles for DHCP clients are discussed in
[RFC7844]
. The mechanisms defined in this document can be used to infer that a DHCP client or
IPv6 host supports Encrypted DNS options, but these mechanisms do not explicitly reveal
whether local DNS clients are able to consume these options or infer their encryption
capabilities. Other than that, this document does not expose more privacy information compared
to Do53 discovery options.

[RFC9076]

As discussed in
DNS resolver. For example, the reader may refer to
[RFC9250]

 for a discussion on specific privacy considerations for encrypted DNS.

, the use of encrypted DNS does not reduce the data available in the

Section 8 of [RFC8484]

 or

Section 7 of

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9463

DNR

November 2023

9.  IANA Considerations

9.1.  DHCPv6 Option

IANA has assigned the following new DHCPv6 Option Code in the "Option Codes" registry
maintained at

[DHCPV6]
.

Value Description

Client ORO Singleton Option

Reference

144

OPTION_V6_DNR

Yes

No

RFC 9463

Table 1: DHCPv6 Encrypted DNS Option

9.2.  DHCPv4 Option

IANA has assigned the following new DHCP Option Code in the "BOOTP Vendor Extensions and
[BOOTP]
.
DHCP Options" registry maintained at

Tag Name

Data Length Meaning

Reference

162

OPTION_V4_DNR N

Encrypted DNS Server

RFC 9463

Table 2: DHCPv4 Encrypted DNS Option

9.3.  Neighbor Discovery Option

IANA has assigned the following new IPv6 Neighbor Discovery Option type in the "IPv6 Neighbor
Discovery Option Formats" subregistry under the "Internet Control Message Protocol version 6
[ND]
.
(ICMPv6) Parameters" registry maintained at

Type Description

Reference

144

Encrypted DNS Option

RFC 9463

Table 3: Neighbor Discovery Encrypted DNS
Option

10.  References

10.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9463

DNR

November 2023

[RFC2132]

[RFC3396]

[RFC4861]

[RFC8106]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8415]

[RFC9460]

[RFC9461]

 and

Alexander, S.
,
2132 DOI 10.17487/RFC2132
, March 1997,
,
rfc2132>

.

R. Droms "DHCP Options and BOOTP Vendor Extensions" RFC

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

 and

S. Cheshire "Encoding Long Options in the Dynamic Host

Lemon, T.
Configuration Protocol (DHCPv4)" RFC 3396 DOI 10.17487/RFC3396
,
2002,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3396>

,

.

,

, November

,

Narten, T. Nordmark, E. Simpson, W.
IP version 6 (IPv6)" RFC 4861 DOI 10.17487/RFC4861
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4861>

, and

,

,

.

H. Soliman "Neighbor Discovery for
,
<https://
, September 2007,

,

,

Jeong, J. Park, S. Beloeil, L.
, and
Options for DNS Configuration" RFC 8106 DOI 10.17487/RFC8106
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8106>

,
.

S. Madanapalli "IPv6 Router Advertisement

,

, March 2017,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Mrugalski, T. Siodelski, M. Volz, B. Yourtchenko, A. Richardson, M. Jiang, S.
,
Lemon, T.
, and
(DHCPv6)" RFC 8415 DOI 10.17487/RFC8415
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc8415>

T. Winters "Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol for IPv6

, November 2018,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

Schwartz, B. Bishop, M.
,
,
Specification via the DNS (SVCB and HTTPS Resource Records)" RFC 9460 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9460>
10.17487/RFC9460
.

E. Nygren "Service Binding and Parameter

, November 2023,

, and

,

,

Schwartz, B. "Service Binding Mapping for DNS Servers" RFC 9461 DOI
10.17487/RFC9461

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9461>

, November 2023,

,

,

.

10.2.  Informative References

[BOOTP]

[DHCPV6]

,

IANA "BOOTP Vendor Extensions and DHCP Options" <https://www.iana.org/
assignments/bootp-dhcp-parameters/>
.

,

IANA "Option Codes" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/dhcpv6-parameters/>

,

,

.

[DNS-TLS-DHCPv6-Opt]

Discovery" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-pusateri-dhc-dns-driu-00
July 2018,

Pusateri, T.
,
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-pusateri-dhc-dns-driu-00>

W. Toorop "DHCPv6 Options for private DNS

 and

, 2

,

,

.

[dot1x]

[Dragonblood]

OpenWrt "Introduction to 802.1X"
guide-user/network/wifi/wireless.security.8021x>

, December 2021,

,

.

<https://openwrt.org/docs/

 and

E. Ronen "Dragonblood: Analyzing the Dragonfly Handshake

Vanhoef, M.
of WPA3 and EAP-pwd" 2020 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP), San
Francisco, pp. 517-533 DOI 10.1109/SP40000.2020.00031
ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9152782>

, May 2020,

<https://

,

,

,

.

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9463

DNR

November 2023

[Evil-Twin]

[IPSK]

[Krack]

Wikipedia "Evil twin (wireless networks)"
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Evil_twin_(wireless_networks)>

, November 2022,

,

.

<https://

,

Cisco "8.5 Identity PSK Feature Deployment Guide"
www.cisco.com/c/en/us/td/docs/wireless/controller/technotes/8-5/
b_Identity_PSK_Feature_Deployment_Guide.html>

, December 2021,

.

<https://

,

 and

F. Piessens "Key Reinstallation Attacks: Forcing Nonce Reuse in

Vanhoef, M.
WPA2" CCS '17: Proceedings of the 2017 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer
and Communications Security, pp. 1313-1328 DOI 10.1145/3133956.3134027
October 2017,

<https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3133956.3134027>

,

,

,

.

[Local-DNS-Authority]

,

Reddy, T. Wing, D. Smith, K.

B. Schwartz "Establishing Local DNS
, and
Authority in Validated Split-Horizon Environments" Work in Progress Internet-
Draft, draft-ietf-add-split-horizon-authority-04
<https://
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-add-split-horizon-authority-04>

, 8 March 2023,

,

,

,

,

.

[ND]

[RFC3552]

[RFC3646]

[RFC4786]

[RFC5280]

[RFC6125]

[RFC6731]

[RFC7113]

,

IANA "IPv6 Neighbor Discovery Option Formats" <https://www.iana.org/
assignments/icmpv6-parameters/>

,

.

B. Korver "Guidelines for Writing RFC Text on Security
 and
Rescorla, E.
Considerations" BCP 72 RFC 3552 DOI 10.17487/RFC3552
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3552>

, July 2003,

,
.

,

,

<https://

,

Droms, R., Ed. "DNS Configuration options for Dynamic Host Configuration
Protocol for IPv6 (DHCPv6)" RFC 3646 DOI 10.17487/RFC3646
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3646>

, December 2003,

,

,

.

Abley, J.
 and
DOI 10.17487/RFC4786
rfc4786>

.

K. Lindqvist "Operation of Anycast Services" BCP 126 RFC 4786

,

,

,

,

, December 2006,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

Cooper, D. Santesson, S. Farrell, S. Boeyen, S. Housley, R.
"Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certificate and Certificate Revocation
List (CRL) Profile" RFC 5280 DOI 10.17487/RFC5280
editor.org/info/rfc5280>

, May 2008,

<https://www.rfc-

W. Polk

, and

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

 and

J. Hodges "Representation and Verification of Domain-Based

Saint-Andre, P.
Application Service Identity within Internet Public Key Infrastructure Using X.
509 (PKIX) Certificates in the Context of Transport Layer Security (TLS)" RFC
6125 DOI 10.17487/RFC6125
,
rfc6125>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, March 2011,

.

,

,

Savolainen, T. Kato, J.
for Multi-Interfaced Nodes" RFC 6731 DOI 10.17487/RFC6731
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6731>

T. Lemon "Improved Recursive DNS Server Selection
,

, December 2012,

, and

,

,

.

,
,

Gont, F. "Implementation Advice for IPv6 Router Advertisement Guard (RA-
Guard)" RFC 7113 DOI 10.17487/RFC7113
<https://www.rfc-
editor.org/info/rfc7113>

, February 2014,

,

.

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9463

DNR

November 2023

[RFC7227]

[RFC7513]

[RFC7610]

[RFC7824]

[RFC7844]

[RFC7858]

[RFC7969]

[RFC8146]

[RFC8310]

[RFC8484]

[RFC8499]

[RFC8613]

[RFC8801]

,

S. Krishnan "Guidelines
,
Hankins, D. Mrugalski, T. Siodelski, M. Jiang, S.
,
for Creating New DHCPv6 Options" BCP 187 RFC 7227 DOI 10.17487/RFC7227
,
May 2014,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7227>

, and

,

.

,

,

,

,

,

Bi, J. Wu, J. Yao, G.
(SAVI) Solution for DHCP" RFC 7513 DOI 10.17487/RFC7513
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7513>

, and

,

,

.

F. Baker "Source Address Validation Improvement

,

, May 2015,

<https://

Gont, F. Liu, W.
,
DHCPv6 Servers" BCP 199 RFC 7610 DOI 10.17487/RFC7610
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7610>

, and
,

,
,

,

.

G. Van de Velde "DHCPv6-Shield: Protecting against Rogue

, August 2015,

Krishnan, S. Mrugalski, T.
,
RFC 7824 DOI 10.17487/RFC7824
rfc7824>

, and

,
.

S. Jiang "Privacy Considerations for DHCPv6"
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,
, May 2016,

,

Huitema, C. Mrugalski, T.
,
Clients" RFC 7844 DOI 10.17487/RFC7844
editor.org/info/rfc7844>

, and

,

,

.

S. Krishnan "Anonymity Profiles for DHCP

,

, May 2016,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

Hu, Z. Zhu, L. Heidemann, J. Mankin, A. Wessels, D.
"Specification for DNS over Transport Layer Security (TLS)" RFC 7858 DOI
10.17487/RFC7858

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7858>

, May 2016,

P. Hoffman

, and

,

,

,

.

 and

Lemon, T.
,
Network Topology" RFC 7969 DOI 10.17487/RFC7969
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7969>

T. Mrugalski "Customizing DHCP Configuration on the Basis of
<https://

, October 2016,

.

,

,

,

Harkins, D. "Adding Support for Salted Password Databases to EAP-pwd" RFC
8146 DOI 10.17487/RFC8146
,
rfc8146>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, April 2017,

.

Dickinson, S. Gillmor, D.
,
DNS over DTLS" RFC 8310 DOI 10.17487/RFC8310
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8310>

, and
,

,

.

T. Reddy "Usage Profiles for DNS over TLS and

, March 2018,

<https://

Hoffman, P.
10.17487/RFC8484

 and

P. McManus "DNS Queries over HTTPS (DoH)" RFC 8484 DOI

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8484>

, October 2018,

,

,

.

Hoffman, P. Sullivan, A.
,
8499 DOI 10.17487/RFC8499
,
rfc8499>

, and

.

K. Fujiwara "DNS Terminology" BCP 219 RFC
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, January 2019,

,

,

,

,

Selander, G. Mattsson, J. Palombini, F.
L. Seitz "Object Security for
Constrained RESTful Environments (OSCORE)" RFC 8613 DOI 10.17487/
,
RFC8613

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8613>

, July 2019,

, and

,

,

,

.

,

Pfister, P. Vyncke, É. Pauly, T. Schinazi, D.
,
Provisioning Domain Names and Data" RFC 8801 DOI 10.17487/RFC8801
2020,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8801>

W. Shao "Discovering

, and

,

,

,

,

.

, July

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9463

DNR

November 2023

[RFC9076]

[RFC9250]

[RFC9462]

[TS.24008]

Wicinski, T., Ed. "DNS Privacy Considerations" RFC 9076 DOI 10.17487/RFC9076
,
July 2021,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9076>

,

,

.

,

Huitema, C. Dickinson, S.
,
Connections" RFC 9250 DOI 10.17487/RFC9250
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc9250>
.

, and

A. Mankin "DNS over Dedicated QUIC

,

, May 2022,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Pauly, T. Kinnear, E. Wood, C. A. McManus, P.
Designated Resolvers" RFC 9462 DOI 10.17487/RFC9462
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9462>

, and

,
,

,

.

T. Jensen "Discovery of
, November 2023,

,

,

3GPP "Technical Specification Group Core Network and Terminals; Mobile radio
interface Layer 3 specification; Core network protocols; Stage 3 (Release 18)"
version 18.4.0

<https://www.3gpp.org/DynaReport/24008.htm>

, September 2023,

,

.

Acknowledgments

Many thanks to

Christian Jacquenet

 and

Michael Richardson

 for their reviews.

Thanks to
Schwartz Iain Sharp
,

,
Chris Box
, and

 for their comments.

Stephen Farrell Martin Thomson Vittorio Bertola Stéphane Bortzmeyer Ben

,

,

,

Thanks to
draft versions of this specification.

Mark Nottingham

 for the feedback on HTTP redirection that was discussed in previous

The use of DHCP as a candidate protocol to retrieve an ADN was mentioned in
[RFC8310]
DHCPv6-Opt]
.

 and in an Internet-Draft authored by

Tom Pusateri

 and

Willem Toorop [DNS-TLS-

Section 7.3.1 of

Thanks to

Bernie Volz

 for the review of the DHCP part.

Christian Amsüss

 reported a case where the ALPN service parameter cannot be used.

Thanks to

Andrew Campling

 for the Shepherd review and

Éric Vyncke

 for the AD review.

Rich Salz
Thanks to
artart review, and

 for the secdir reviews,
David Blacka

 for the dnsdir review.

Joe Clarke

 for the opsdir review,

Robert Sparks

 for the

Thanks to
and

Zaheduzzaman Sarker

 for the IESG review.

Lars Eggert Roman Danyliw Erik Kline Martin Duke Robert Wilton Paul Wouters
,

,

,

,

,

,

Contributors

Nicolai Leymann
Deutsche Telekom
Germany
Email:

 n.leymann@telekom.de

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9463

DNR

November 2023

Zhiwei Yan
CNNIC
No.4 South 4th Street, Zhongguancun
Beijing
100190
China
Email:

 yan@cnnic.cn

Authors' Addresses

editor
)

Mohamed Boucadair (
Orange
35000 Rennes
France
Email:

 mohamed.boucadair@orange.com

editor
)

Tirumaleswar Reddy.K (
Nokia
India
Email:

 kondtir@gmail.com

Dan Wing
Cloud Software Group Holdings, Inc.
United States of America
Email:

 dwing-ietf@fuggles.com

Neil Cook
Open-Xchange
United Kingdom
Email:

 neil.cook@noware.co.uk

Tommy Jensen
Microsoft
United States of America
Email:

 tojens@microsoft.com

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

