Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9869
Standards Track
October 2025
2070-1721
G. Fairhurst
University of Aberdeen

T. Jones
University of Aberdeen

RFC 9869
Datagram Packetization Layer Path MTU Discovery
(DPLPMTUD) for UDP Options

Abstract

This document specifies how a UDP Options sender implements Datagram Packetization Layer
Path MTU Discovery (DPLPMTUD) as a robust method for Path MTU Discovery (PMTUD). This
method uses the UDP Options packetization layer. It allows an application to discover the largest
size of datagram that can be sent across a network path. It also provides a way to allow the
application to periodically verify the current Maximum Packet Size (MPS) supported by a path
and to update this when required.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9869
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Fairhurst & Jones

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9869

UDP Options with DPLPMTUD

October 2025

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  DPLPMTUD for UDP Options

3.1.  Packet Formats

3.2.  Sending Probe Packets with the Request Option

3.3.  Receiving UDP Options Probe Packets and Sending the RES Option

4.  DPLPMTUD Sender Procedures for UDP Options

4.1.  Confirmation of Connectivity Across a Path

4.2.  Sending Probe Packets to Increase the PLPMTU

4.3.  Validating the Path with UDP Options

4.4.  Probe Packets That Do Not Include Application Data

4.5.  Probe Packets That Include Application Data

5.  Receiving Events from the Network

5.1.  Changes in the Path

5.2.  Validation of PTB Messages

6.  Examples with Different Receiver Behaviors

7.  IANA Considerations

8.  Security Considerations

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

3

4

4

6

6

7

7

7

8

8

9

9

9

10

10

10

11

11

12

12

12

13

13

Fairhurst & Jones

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9869

UDP Options with DPLPMTUD

October 2025

1.  Introduction

The User Datagram Protocol (UDP)
is frequently used as a substrate for other protocols. Section 3.2 of UDP Guidelines
recommends that applications implement some form of Path MTU Discovery (PMTUD) to avoid
the generation of IP fragments:

 offers a minimal transport service on top of IP and

[RFC0768]

[RFC8085]

Consequently, an application
the IP layer or implement Path MTU Discovery (PMTUD) itself [RFC1191] [RFC1981]
[RFC4821] to determine whether the path to a destination will support its desired
message size without fragmentation.

 either use the path MTU information provided by

SHOULD

[RFC8304]

 offers calls for applications to receive ICMP Packet Too Big (PTB)

The UDP API
messages and to control the maximum size of datagrams that are sent, but it does not offer any
automated mechanisms for an application to discover the MPS supported by a path. Upper Layer
protocols, which include applications, can implement mechanisms for PMTUD above the UDP
API.

Packetization Layer Path MTU Discovery (PLPMTUD)
 describes a method for a
bidirectional Packetization Layer (PL) to search for the largest Packetization Layer PMTU
 specifies this support for datagram
(PLPMTU) supported on a path. DPLPMTUD
transports. PLPMTUD and DPLPMTUD gain robustness by using a probing mechanism that does
not solely rely on ICMP PTB messages and works on paths that drop ICMP PTB messages.

[RFC4821]

[RFC8899]

[RFC9868]

 supplies functionality that can be used to implement DPLPMTUD within

UDP Options
the transport service or in an Upper Layer protocol (including an application) that uses UDP
Options. This document specifies how DPLPMTUD using UDP Options is implemented (
of [RFC8899]

) and requires support to be enabled at both the sender and receiver.

Section 6.1

Implementing DPLPMTUD within the transport service above UDP Options avoids the need for
each Upper Layer protocol to implement the DPLPMTUD method. It provides a standard method
for applications to discover the current MPS for a path and to detect when this changes. It can be
used with Equal-Cost Multipath (ECMP) routing and/or multihoming. If multipath or
multihoming is supported, a state machine is needed for each path.

DPLPMTUD is not specified for multicast. The method requires explicit acknowledgement of
probe packets provided by UDP Options, which is primarily intended for unicast use (see
23 of [RFC9868]

).

Section

Fairhurst & Jones

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9869

UDP Options with DPLPMTUD

October 2025

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

This document uses the terms defined for DPLPMTUD (Sections 2 and 5 of

[RFC8899]

).

3.  DPLPMTUD for UDP Options

A UDP Options sender implementing DPLPMTUD uses the method specified in
. In this
specification, DPLPMTUD is realized using a pair of UDP Options: the Request (REQ) Option and
). The method also uses the End of Options
the Response (RES) Option (
List (EOL) Option (
packet.

) to introduce padding to set the size of a probe

Section 11.1 of [RFC9868]

Section 11.7 of [RFC9868]

[RFC8899]

MUST

 be explicitly enabled by the application, for instance, once an

Use of DPLPMTUD
application has established connectivity and is ready to exchange data with the remote Upper
Layer protocol. Similarly, a DPLPMTUD receiver
 respond to a UDP REQ Option until
DPLPMTUD has been enabled. This is to help protect from misuse of the mechanism for other
forms of probing.

MUST NOT

Probe packets consume network capacity and incur endpoint processing (
[RFC8899]
). Implementations ought to send a probe packet with a UDP REQ Option only when
required by their local DPLPMTUD state machine, i.e., when confirming the base PMTU for the
path, probing to increase the PLPMTU, or confirming the current PLPMTU.

Section 4.1 of

DPLPMTUD can be implemented over UDP Options in two ways:

•

Implementation within the UDP transport service.

•

Implementation in an Upper Layer protocol (or application) that uses UDP Options.

When DPLPMTUD is implemented within the UDP transport service, the DPLPMTUD state
machine is responsible for sending probe packets to determine a PLPMTU, as described in this
document. This determines an MPS, the largest size of application data block that can be sent
across a network path using a single datagram. The Upper Layer protocol is responsible for
deciding when a session enables DPLPMTUD.

The discovered PLPMTU can be used to either:

•

set the maximum datagram size for the current path or

Fairhurst & Jones

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9869

UDP Options with DPLPMTUD

October 2025

•

set the maximum fragment size when a sender uses the UDP Fragmentation Option to divide
a datagram into multiple UDP fragments for transmission. The size of each UDP fragment is
then less than or equal to the size of the discovered largest IP packet that can be received
across the current path.

The figure below shows an implementation of DPLPMTUD within the UDP transport service. It
illustrates key interactions between the layers. This design requires an API primitive to allow the
application to control whether the DPLPMTUD state machine is enabled for a specific UDP port.
By default, this API

 disable DPLPMTUD processing.

MUST

Note: UDP allows an Upper Layer protocol to send datagrams with or without
payload data (with or without UDP Options). These are delivered across the
network to the remote Upper Layer. When DPLPMTUD is implemented within the
UDP transport service, probe packets that include a REQ or RES UDP Option can be
sent with no UDP payload. In this case, these probe packets were not generated by a
sending application; therefore, the corresponding received datagrams are not
delivered to the remote application.

When DPLPMTUD is instead implemented by an Upper Layer protocol, the format and content
of probe packets are determined by the Upper Layer protocol. This design is also permitted to
use the REQ and RES Options provided by UDP Options.

If DPLPMTUD is active at more than one layer, then the values of the tokens used in REQ Options
need to be coordinated with any values used for other DPLPMTUD probe packets to ensure that
each probe packet can be identified by a unique token. When configurable, a configuration
ought to avoid performing such discovery both within UDP Options and also by an Upper Layer

Fairhurst & Jones

Standards Track

Page 5

UpperLayerProtocolorApplicationMessages(withUDPOptions)receivesendPrimitivesforMPS,Min_PMTU,etc.DPLPMTUDStateMachineMaximumPacketSize(MPS)PLPMTU,Probed-Size,Min_PMTUTokenValues&Probes,etc.Messages(withUDPOptions)Send/Receive:ProbeswithOptionsreceivesendEvents:ICMP,InterfaceMTU,etc.UDPOptionsTransportDatagrams(withUDPOptions)FragmentedDatagramswithUDPOptionsreceivesendEvents:ICMP,InterfaceMTU,etc.RFC 9869

UDP Options with DPLPMTUD

October 2025

protocol that sends and receives probe packets via UDP Options.
recommends that: "An application
SHOULD
transport system provides this capability."

Section 6.1 of [RFC8899]
 avoid using DPLPMTUD when the underlying

3.1.  Packet Formats

The UDP Options used in this document are described in
ways:

[RFC9868]

 and are used in the following

•

The REQ Option is set by a sending PL to solicit a response from a remote receiver. A four-
byte (four-octet) token identifies each request.

•

A sending PL can use the EOL Option together with a minimum datagram length to pad
probe packets.

•

The RES Option is sent by a UDP Options receiver in response to a previously received REQ
Option. Each RES Option echoes the last received four-byte token.

•

If a UDP Options endpoint creates and sends a datagram with a RES Option solely as
response to a received REQ Option, the responder
(e.g., limiting each pair of ports to send 1 per measured RTT or 1 per second). This rate limit
is to mitigate the DoS vector without significantly impacting the operation of DPLPMTUD. An
example in Section 6 describes a case where this might be used.

 limit the rate of these responses

MUST

•

Reception of a RES Option by the REQ sender confirms that a specific probe packet has been
received by the remote UDP Options receiver.

The token allows a UDP Options sender to distinguish between acknowledgements for initial
probe packets and acknowledgements confirming receipt of subsequent probe packets (e.g.,
travelling along alternate paths with a larger RTT). Each probe packet
identifiable by the UDP Options sender within the Maximum Segment Lifetime (MSL)
The UDP Options sender
token field provides sufficient space for multiple unique probe packets to be made within the
MSL. Since UDP Options operates over UDP, the token values only need to be unique for the
specific 5-tuple over which it is operating.

[RFC8085]
.
 reuse a token value within the MSL. A four-byte value for the

 be uniquely

MUST NOT

MUST

The value of the four-byte token field
protection from off-path attacks, as described in

SHOULD

Section 5.1 of [RFC8085]
.

 be initialized to a randomized value to enhance

3.2.  Sending Probe Packets with the Request Option

DPLPMTUD relies upon sending a probe packet with a specific size. Each probe packet includes
the UDP Options area containing a REQ Option and any other required options concluded with
an EOL Option (
required probe size.

), followed by any padding needed to inflate to the

Section 11.1 of [RFC9868]

A probe packet can therefore be up to the maximum size supported by the local interface (i.e.,
the Interface MTU). Item 2 in
DPLPMTUD to provide a way to transmit a probe packet that is larger than the current PLPMTU.

 requires the network interface below

Section 3 of [RFC8899]

Fairhurst & Jones

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9869

UDP Options with DPLPMTUD

October 2025

The size of this probe packet
layer mechanisms (such as discovered by PMTUD
the IP-layer cache), as noted in item 2 in

MUST NOT

Section 3 of [RFC8899]

).

 be constrained by the maximum PMTU set by network
 or the PMTU size held in

[RFC1191][RFC8201]

UDP datagrams used as DPLPMTUD probe packets, as described in this document,
fragmented at the UDP or IP layer. Therefore,
packet
layer endpoint fragmentation."

 be
 requires: "In IPv4, a probe
 be sent with the Don't Fragment (DF) bit set in the IP header and without network

Section 3 of [RFC8899]

MUST NOT

MUST

3.3.  Receiving UDP Options Probe Packets and Sending the RES Option

When DPLPMTUD is enabled, a UDP Options receiver responds by sending a UDP datagram with
the RES Option when it receives a UDP Options datagram with the REQ Option.

The operation of DPLPMTUD can depend on the support at the remote UDP Options endpoint,
the way in which DPLPMTUD is implemented, and in some cases, the application data that is
exchanged over the UDP transport service. When UDP Options is not supported by the remote
receiver, DPLPMTUD will be unable to confirm the path or to discover the PLPMTU. This will
result in the minimum configured PLPMTU (MIN_PLPMTU). More explanation of usage is
provided in Section 6.

Note: A receiver that only responds when there is a datagram queued for
transmission by the Upper Layer could potentially receive multiple datagrams with
a REQ Option before it can respond. When sent, the RES Option will only
acknowledge the latest received token value. A sender would then conclude that
any earlier REQ Options were not successfully received. However, DPLPMTUD does
not usually result in sending more than one probe packet per timeout interval, and
a delay in responding will already have been treated as a failed probe attempt.
Therefore, this does not significantly impact performance, although a more prompt
response would have resulted in DPLPMTUD recording reception of all probe
packets.

4.  DPLPMTUD Sender Procedures for UDP Options

DPLPMTUD utilizes three types of probe. These are described in the following sections:

•

Probes to confirm the path can support the BASE_PLPMTU (

Section 5.1.4 of [RFC8899]

).

•

Probes to detect whether the path can support a larger PLPMTU.

•

Probes to validate that the path supports the current PLPMTU.

4.1.  Confirmation of Connectivity Across a Path

The DPLPMTUD method requires a PL to confirm connectivity over the path (
[RFC8899]

), but UDP itself does not offer a mechanism for this.

Section 5.1.4 of

Fairhurst & Jones

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9869

UDP Options with DPLPMTUD

October 2025

MUST

 elicit a positive confirmation of connectivity for the path by sending a probe

UDP Options can provide this required functionality. A UDP Options sender implementing this
specification
packet padded to size BASE_PLPMTU. This confirmation probe
 include the REQ UDP
Option to elicit a response from the remote DPLPMTUD. Reception of a datagram with the
corresponding RES Option confirms the reception of a packet of the probed size that has
successfully traversed the path to the receiver. This also confirms that the remote endpoint
supports the RES Option.

MUST

4.2.  Sending Probe Packets to Increase the PLPMTU

From time to time, DPLPMTUD enters the SEARCHING state, described in
[RFC8899]
, (e.g., after expiry of the PMTU_RAISE_TIMER) to detect whether the current path can
support a larger PLPMTU. When the remote endpoint advertises a UDP Maximum Datagram Size
(MDS) Option (see
search to increase the PLPMTU.

 be used as a hint to initialize this

Section 11.5 of [RFC9868]

Section 5.2 of

), this value

MAY

Probe packets seeking to increase the PLPMTU
Section 4.1 of [RFC8899]
using padding data" in
exceeds the actual PMTU.
acknowledgement that the path has delivered a datagram of the specific probed size; therefore,
[RFC9868]
.
a probe packet

SHOULD NOT
), since they will be lost whenever their size

 include the REQ Option when using transport options for UDP

 requires a probe packet to elicit a positive

 carry application data (see "Probing

[RFC8899]

MUST

At the receiver, a received probe packet that does not carry application data does not form a
part of the end-to-end transport data and is not delivered to the Upper Layer protocol (i.e.,
application or protocol layered above UDP). A zero-length payload notification could still be
delivered to the application (see
discusses the implications when using UDP Options.

Section 18 of [RFC9868]

Section 5 of [RFC8085]

), although

4.3.  Validating the Path with UDP Options

MUST

A PL using DPLPMTUD
in a previous search for a suitable PLPMTU value, as defined in
validation sends probe packets in the DPLPMTUD SEARCH_COMPLETE state (
[RFC8899]
hole).

 validate that a path continues to support the PLPMTU discovered
. This

Section 6.1.4 of [RFC8899]
Section 5.2 of

) to detect black-holing of data (

 defines a DPLPMTUD black

Section 4.3 of [RFC8899]

MUST

Path validation can be implemented within UDP Options by generating a probe packet of size
 include a REQ Option to elicit a positive confirmation that the path has
PLPMTU, which
 use either "Probing
delivered this probe packet. A probe packet used to validate the path
using padding data" to construct a probe packet that does not carry any application data or
"Probing using application data and padding data"; see
"Probing using padding data", the UDP Options API does not indicate receipt of the zero-length
probe packet (see

Section 4.1 of [RFC8899]

Section 6 of [RFC9868]

. When using

MAY

).

Fairhurst & Jones

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9869

UDP Options with DPLPMTUD

October 2025

4.4.  Probe Packets That Do Not Include Application Data

Section 4.1 of [RFC8899]

A simple implementation of the method might be designed to only use probe packets in a UDP
datagram that includes no application data. The size of each probe packet is padded to the
required probe size including the REQ Option. This implements "Probing using padding
data" (
fails. This could be achieved by setting a minimum datagram length, such that the options list
ends in EOL (
Section 15 of [RFC9868]
transport data and a receiver does not deliver them to the Upper Layer protocol.

) with any additional space zero-filled as needed (see
). In this use, the probe packets do not form a part of the end-to-end

) and avoids having to retransmit application data when a probe

Section 11.1 of [RFC9868]

4.5.  Probe Packets That Include Application Data

An implementation always uses the format in Section 4.4 when DPLPMTUD searches to increase
the PLPMTU.

An alternative format is permitted for a probe packet that is used to confirm the connectivity or
to validate the path. These probe packets
permitted because these probe packets perform black-hole detection and will therefore usually
have a higher probability of successful transmission, similar to other packets sent by the Upper
Layer protocol.)
 provides a discussion of the merits and demerits of
including application data. For example, this reduces the need to send additional datagrams.

 carry application data. (UDP payload data is

Section 4.1 of [RFC8899]

MAY

This type of probe packet
protocol, provided that the message does not need to be delivered reliably. The REQ Option
be included when the sending Upper Layer protocol performs DPLPMTUD. The DPLPMTUD
method tracks the transmission of probe packets (using the REQ Option token).

 use a control message format defined by the Upper Layer

MAY

MUST

A receiver that responds to DPLPMTUD
corresponding RES Option with an Upper Layer protocol message that it returns to the requester
(examples of receiver processing are provided in Section 6).

 process the REQ Option and include the

MUST

Probe packets that use this format form a part of the end-to-end transport data and can be used
to manage the PLPMTU in just one direction or can be used for both directions.

5.  Receiving Events from the Network

This specification does not rely upon reception of events from the network, but an
implementation can utilize these events when they are provided.

Fairhurst & Jones

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9869

UDP Options with DPLPMTUD

October 2025

5.1.  Changes in the Path

A change in the path or the loss of a probe packet can result in DPLPMTUD updating the
PLPMTU. DPLPMTUD
could have occurred since the path characteristics were last confirmed and to the possibility of
inconsistent path information being received. For example, a notification that a path has
changed could trigger path validation to provide black-hole protection (

 recommends that methods are robust to path changes that

Section 4.3 of [RFC8899]

[RFC8899]

).

An Upper Layer protocol could trigger DPLPMTUD to validate the path when it observes a high
packet loss rate (or a repeated protocol timeout)

[RFC8899]
.

Section 3 of [RFC8899]
 requires any methods designed to share the PLPMTU between PLs (such
as updating the IP cache PMTU for an interface/destination) to be robust to the wide variety of
underlying network forwarding behaviors. For example, an implementation could avoid sharing
PMTU information that could potentially relate to packets sent with the same address over a
different interface.

5.2.  Validation of PTB Messages

Support for receiving ICMP PTB messages is
can therefore ignore received ICMP PTB messages.

OPTIONAL

 for DPLPMTUD. A UDP Options sender

Before processing an ICMP PTB message, the DPLPMTUD method needs to perform two checks to
ensure that the message was received in response to a sent probe packet:

•

DPLPMTUD first utilizes the quoted information in each PTB message. The receiver
validate the protocol information in the quoted packet carried in an ICMP PTB message
payload to validate the message originated from the sending node (see
[RFC8899]

Section 4.6.1 of

).

MUST

•

SHOULD

 utilize information that is not simple for an off-path attacker to

The receiver
determine (see
confirm that the token contained in the UDP REQ Option of the quoted packet has a value
that corresponds to a probe packet that was recently sent by the current endpoint.

). Specifically, a UDP Options receiver

Section 4.6.1 of [RFC8899]

SHOULD

An implementation unable to support this validation

MUST

 ignore received ICMP PTB messages.

6.  Examples with Different Receiver Behaviors

When enabled, a DPLPMTUD endpoint that implements UDP Options normally responds with a
UDP datagram with a RES Option when requested by a sender.

The following examples describe various possible receiver behaviors:

•

No DPLPMTUD receiver support: One case is when a sender supports this specification, but
no RES Option is received from the remote endpoint. In this example, the method is unable
to discover the PLPMTU. This will result in using the MIN_PLPMTU. Such a remote endpoint

Fairhurst & Jones

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9869

UDP Options with DPLPMTUD

October 2025

might be not configured to process UDP Options or might not return a datagram with a RES
Option for some other reason (e.g., packet loss, insufficient space to include the option,
filtering on the path, etc.).

•

DPLPMTUD receiver uses application datagrams: In a second case, both the sender and
receiver support DPLPMTUD using the specification, and the receiver only returns a RES
Option with the next UDP datagram that is sent to the requester. Therefore, reception of a
REQ Option does not systematically trigger a response. This allows DPLPMTUD to operate
when there is a flow of datagrams in both directions, provided there is periodic feedback
(e.g., one acknowledgement packet per RTT). It requires the PLPMTU at the receiver to be
sufficiently large enough that the RES Option can be included in the feedback packets that
are sent in the return direction. This method avoids opportunities to misuse the method as a
DoS attack. However, when there is a low rate of transmission (or no datagrams are sent) in
the return direction, this will prevent prompt delivery of the RES Option. At the DPLPMTUD
sender, this results in probe packets failing to be acknowledged in time and could result in a
smaller PLPMTU than is actually supported by the path or in using the MIN_PLPMTU.

•

Unidirectional transfer: Another case is where an application only transfers data in one
direction (or predominantly in one direction). In this case, the wait at the receiver for a
datagram to be queued before returning a RES Option could easily result in a probe timeout
at the DPLPMTUD sender. In this case, DPLPMTUD could allow exchanging datagrams
without a payload (as discussed in earlier sections) to return the RES Option.

•

DPLPMTUD receiver permitted to send responses in UDP datagrams with no payload: A
DPLPMTUD receiver can generate a datagram (e.g., with zero payload data) solely to return
a RES Option (e.g., sent when no other datagrams are queued for transmission). This would
allow an endpoint to probe the set of UDP ports that have been configured with support for
this specification using a DPLPMTUD probe packet. Although this results in some additional
traffic overhead, it has the advantage that it can ensure timely progress of DPLPMTUD.
Section 3.1 specifies: "If a UDP Options endpoint creates and sends a datagram with a RES
Option solely as response to a received REQ Option, the responder
these responses (e.g., limiting each pair of ports to send 1 per measured RTT or 1 per
second)". This rate limit is to mitigate the DoS vector, without significantly impacting the
operation of DPLPMTUD.

 limit the rate of

MUST

7.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

8.  Security Considerations

The security considerations for using UDP Options are described in
not change the integrity protection offered by the UDP Options method.

[RFC9868]

. The method does

The security considerations for using DPLPMTUD are described in
. On-path attackers
could maliciously drop or modify probe packets to seek to decrease the PMTU or to maliciously
modify probe packets in an attempt to black-hole traffic.

[RFC8899]

Fairhurst & Jones

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9869

UDP Options with DPLPMTUD

October 2025

The specification recommends that the token value in the REQ Option is initialized to a
randomized value. This is to enhance protection from off-path attacks. If a subsequent probe
packet uses a token value that is easily derived from the initial value (e.g., incrementing the
value), a misbehaving on-path observer could then determine the token values used for
subsequent probe packets from that sender, even if these probe packets are not transiting via
the observer. This would allow probe packets to be forged, with an impact similar to other on-
path attacks against probe packets. This attack could be mitigated by using an unpredictable
token value for each probe packet.

The method does not change the ICMP PTB message validation method described by DPLPMTUD:
A UDP Options sender that utilizes ICMP PTB messages received to a probe packet
 use the
quoted packet to validate the UDP port information in combination with the token contained in
the UDP Option before processing the packet using the DPLPMTUD method.

MUST

Upper Layer protocols or applications that employ encryption ought to perform DPLPMTUD at a
layer above UDP Options and not enable UDP Options support for DPLPMTUD. This allows the
application to control when DPLPMTUD is used to control the additional traffic that this
generates. This also ensures that DPLPMTUD probe packets are encrypted.

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[RFC0768]

[RFC2119]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8899]

[RFC9868]

,

Postel, J. "User Datagram Protocol" STD 6 RFC 768 DOI 10.17487/RFC0768
August 1980,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc768>

,

,

,

.

,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Fairhurst, G. Jones, T. Tüxen, M. Rüngeler, I.
,
Layer Path MTU Discovery for Datagram Transports" RFC 8899 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8899

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8899>

T. Völker "Packetization

, September 2020,

, and

,

,

,

,

.

 and

Touch, J.
10.17487/RFC9868

C. Heard, Ed. "Transport Options for UDP" RFC 9868 DOI

,

,

,

, October 2025,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9868>

.

9.2.  Informative References

[RFC1191]

[RFC4821]

Mogul, J.
RFC1191

 and
, November 1990,

S. Deering "Path MTU discovery" RFC 1191 DOI 10.17487/

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1191>

,

,

.

Mathis, M.
DOI 10.17487/RFC4821

J. Heffner "Packetization Layer Path MTU Discovery" RFC 4821
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4821>

, March 2007,

 and

,

,

,

Fairhurst & Jones

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9869

UDP Options with DPLPMTUD

October 2025

[RFC8085]

[RFC8201]

[RFC8304]

,

Eggert, L. Fairhurst, G.
, and
8085 DOI 10.17487/RFC8085
,
rfc8085>

.

G. Shepherd "UDP Usage Guidelines" BCP 145 RFC
,
, March 2017,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

McCann, J. Deering, S. Mogul, J.
,
version 6" STD 87 RFC 8201 DOI 10.17487/RFC8201
, July 2017,
editor.org/info/rfc8201>

R. Hinden, Ed. "Path MTU Discovery for IP
<https://www.rfc-

, and

,
,

,

.

,

,

 and

Fairhurst, G.
(UDP) and Lightweight UDP (UDP-Lite)" RFC 8304 DOI 10.17487/RFC8304
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8304>
February 2018,

T. Jones "Transport Features of the User Datagram Protocol

,

,

,

,

.

Acknowledgements

 and

Gorry Fairhurst
Aberdeen. The authors would like to thank
 for
their detailed comments and also other people who contributed to completing this document.

 are supported by funding provided by the University of

Mohamed Boucadair

Magnus Westerlund

Tom Jones

 and

Authors' Addresses

Godred Fairhurst
University of Aberdeen
School of Engineering
Fraser Noble Building
Aberdeen
AB24 3UE
United Kingdom
Email:

gorry@erg.abdn.ac.uk

Tom Jones
University of Aberdeen
School of Engineering
Fraser Noble Building
Aberdeen
AB24 3UE
United Kingdom
Email:

tom@erg.abdn.ac.uk

Fairhurst & Jones

Standards Track

Page 13

