Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:
X. Xu
Capitalonline

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9088
Standards Track
August 2021
2070-1721

S. Kini

P. Psenak
Cisco Systems, Inc.

C. Filsﬁls
Cisco Systems, Inc.

S. Litkowski
Cisco Systems, Inc.

M. Bocci
Nokia

RFC 9088
Signaling Entropy Label Capability and Entropy
Readable Label Depth Using IS-IS

Abstract

Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) has deﬁned a mechanism to load-balance traﬃc ﬂows
using Entropy Labels (EL). An ingress Label Switching Router (LSR) cannot insert ELs for packets
going into a given Label Switched Path (LSP) unless an egress LSR has indicated via signaling that
it has the capability to process ELs, referred to as the Entropy Label Capability (ELC), on that LSP.
In addition, it would be useful for ingress LSRs to know each LSR's capability for reading the
maximum label stack depth and performing EL-based load-balancing, referred to as Entropy
Readable Label Depth (ERLD). This document deﬁnes a mechanism to signal these two
capabilities using IS-IS and Border Gateway Protocol - Link State (BGP-LS).

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9088

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9088

Signaling ELC and ERLD Using IS-IS

August 2021

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  Advertising ELC Using IS-IS

4.  Advertising ERLD Using IS-IS

5.  Signaling ELC and ERLD in BGP-LS

6.  IANA Considerations

7.  Security Considerations

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

8.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

 describes a method to load-balance Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) traﬃc ﬂows

[RFC6790]
using Entropy Labels (EL). It also introduces the concept of Entropy Label Capability (ELC) and
deﬁnes the signaling of this capability via MPLS signaling protocols. Recently, mechanisms have
been deﬁned to signal labels via link-state Interior Gateway Protocols (IGP) such as IS-IS
. This document deﬁnes a mechanism to signal the ELC using IS-IS.
[RFC8667]

In cases where Segment Routing (SR) is used with the MPLS data plane (e.g., SR-MPLS
it would be useful for ingress LSRs to know each intermediate LSR's capability of reading the
maximum label stack depth and performing EL-based load-balancing. This capability, referred to
, may be used by ingress LSRs to
as Entropy Readable Label Depth (ERLD) as deﬁned in

[RFC8660]

[RFC8662]

),

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9088

Signaling ELC and ERLD Using IS-IS

August 2021

determine the position of the EL label in the stack, and whether it's necessary to insert multiple
ELs at diﬀerent positions in the label stack. This document deﬁnes a mechanism to signal the
ERLD using IS-IS.

2.  Terminology

This memo makes use of the terms deﬁned in

[RFC6790]

, and

[RFC8662]
.

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Advertising ELC Using IS-IS

Even though ELC is a property of the node, in some cases it is advantageous to associate and
advertise the ELC with a preﬁx. In a multi-area network, routers may not know the identity of
the preﬁx originator in a remote area or may not know the capabilities of such originator.
Similarly, in a multi-domain network, the identity of the preﬁx originator and its capabilities may
not be known to the ingress LSR.

Bit 3 in the Preﬁx Attribute Flags
If a router has multiple interfaces, the router
preﬁxes unless all of its interfaces are capable of processing ELs. If a router supports ELs on all of
its interfaces, it

 set the ELC for every local host preﬁx it advertises in IS-IS.

 is used as the ELC Flag (E-Flag), as shown in Figure 1.

 announce the ELC for any local host

[RFC7794]

MUST NOT

SHOULD

       0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7...
      +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+...
      |X|R|N|E|        ...
      +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+...

Figure 1: Preﬁx Attribute Flags

E-Flag:

ELC Flag (Bit 3) - Set for local host preﬁx of the originating node if it supports ELC on all
interfaces.

The ELC signaling
.
[RFC5302]

MUST

 be preserved when a router propagates a preﬁx between IS-IS levels

When redistributing a preﬁx between two IS-IS protocol instances or redistributing from another
protocol to an IS-IS protocol instance, a router
 preserve the ELC signaling for that preﬁx
if it exists. The exact mechanism used to exchange ELC between protocol instances running on
an Autonomous System Border Router is outside of the scope of this document.

SHOULD

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9088

Signaling ELC and ERLD Using IS-IS

August 2021

4.  Advertising ERLD Using IS-IS

[RFC8491]

, called ERLD-MSD, is deﬁned to advertise the ERLD

A new MSD-Type
given router. An MSD-Type code 2 has been assigned by IANA for ERLD-MSD. The MSD-Value
ﬁeld is set to the ERLD in the range between 0 to 255. The scope of the advertisement depends on
the application. If a router has multiple interfaces with diﬀerent capabilities of reading the
maximum label stack depth, the router
interfaces.

 advertise the smallest value found across all its

[RFC8662]

MUST

 of a

The absence of ERLD-MSD advertisements indicates only that the advertising node does not
support advertisement of this capability.

The considerations for advertising the ERLD are speciﬁed in

.
[RFC8662]

If the ERLD-MSD type is received in the Link MSD sub-TLV, it

MUST

 be ignored.

5.  Signaling ELC and ERLD in BGP-LS

The IS-IS extensions deﬁned in this document can be advertised via BGP-LS (distribution of Link-
State and TE information using BGP)

 using existing BGP-LS TLVs.

[RFC7752]

The ELC is advertised using the Preﬁx Attribute Flags TLV as deﬁned in

.
[RFC9085]

The ERLD-MSD is advertised using the Node MSD TLV as deﬁned in

.
[RFC8814]

6.  IANA Considerations

IANA has completed the following actions for this document:

•

Bit 3 in the "Bit Values for Preﬁx Attribute Flags Sub-TLV" registry has been assigned to the
ELC Flag. IANA has updated the registry to reﬂect the name used in this document: ELC Flag
(E-Flag).

•

Type 2 in the "IGP MSD-Types" registry has been assigned for the ERLD-MSD. IANA has
updated the registry to reﬂect the name used in this document: ERLD-MSD.

7.  Security Considerations

This document speciﬁes the ability to advertise additional node capabilities using IS-IS and BGP-
LS. As such, the security considerations as described in
[RFC8491] [RFC8662] [RFC8814]

 are applicable to this document.

[RFC7752] [RFC7794] [RFC7981]

[RFC9085]

, and

,

,

,

,

,

Incorrectly setting the E-Flag during origination, propagation, or redistribution may lead to poor
or no load-balancing of the MPLS traﬃc or to MPLS traﬃc being discarded on the egress node.

Incorrectly setting the ERLD value may lead to poor or no load-balancing of the MPLS traﬃc.

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9088

Signaling ELC and ERLD Using IS-IS

August 2021

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC5302]

[RFC6790]

[RFC7752]

[RFC7794]

[RFC7981]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8491]

[RFC8662]

[RFC8814]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

, and

Li, T. Smit, H.
,
,
Level IS-IS" RFC 5302 DOI 10.17487/RFC5302
editor.org/info/rfc5302>

T. Przygienda "Domain-Wide Preﬁx Distribution with Two-
<https://www.rfc-

, October 2008,

,

.

,

Kompella, K. Drake, J. Amante, S. Henderickx, W.
Entropy Labels in MPLS Forwarding" RFC 6790 DOI 10.17487/RFC6790
November 2012,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6790>

, and

L. Yong "The Use of

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

Gredler, H., Ed. Medved, J. Previdi, S. Farrel, A.
,
Distribution of Link-State and Traﬃc Engineering (TE) Information Using BGP"
, March 2016,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 7752 DOI 10.17487/RFC7752
rfc7752>

S. Ray "North-Bound

, and

,
.

,

,

,

,

Ginsberg, L., Ed. Decraene, B. Previdi, S. Xu, X.
Attributes for Extended IPv4 and IPv6 Reachability" RFC 7794 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7794

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7794>

,
U. Chunduri "IS-IS Preﬁx

, March 2016,

, and
,

,

,

.

,
, and
Ginsberg, L. Previdi, S.
,
Information" RFC 7981 DOI 10.17487/RFC7981
.
editor.org/info/rfc7981>

,

,

M. Chen "IS-IS Extensions for Advertising Router

, October 2016,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

,

, and
Tantsura, J. Chunduri, U. Aldrin, S.
,
Depth (MSD) Using IS-IS" RFC 8491 DOI 10.17487/RFC8491
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8491>

,
,

,

.

L. Ginsberg "Signaling Maximum SID

, November 2018,

,

,

Kini, S. Kompella, K. Sivabalan, S. Litkowski, S. Shakir, R.
"Entropy Label for Source Packet Routing in Networking (SPRING) Tunnels" RFC
,
8662 DOI 10.17487/RFC8662
rfc8662>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, December 2019,

J. Tantsura

, and

,
,

,

.

,

,

,
,
Tantsura, J. Chunduri, U. Talaulikar, K. Mirsky, G.
"Signaling Maximum SID Depth (MSD) Using the Border Gateway Protocol - Link
State" RFC 8814 DOI 10.17487/RFC8814
editor.org/info/rfc8814>

<https://www.rfc-

N. Triantaﬁllis

, August 2020,

, and

,

,

,

.

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9088

Signaling ELC and ERLD Using IS-IS

August 2021

[RFC9085]

,

Previdi, S. Talaulikar, K., Ed. Filsﬁls, C. Gredler, H.
Gateway Protocol - Link State (BGP-LS) Extensions for Segment Routing" RFC
9085 DOI 10.17487/RFC9085
,
rfc9085>

M. Chen "Border
,
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, August 2021,

, and

,

,

.

8.2.  Informative References

[RFC8660]

[RFC8667]

,

R.
Bashandy, A., Ed. Filsﬁls, C., Ed. Previdi, S. Decraene, B. Litkowski, S.
,
Shakir "Segment Routing with the MPLS Data Plane" RFC 8660 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8660

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8660>

, December 2019,

, and

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

Previdi, S., Ed. Ginsberg, L., Ed. Filsﬁls, C. Bashandy, A. Gredler, H.
B.
Decraene "IS-IS Extensions for Segment Routing" RFC 8667 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8667

,
, December 2019,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8667>

, and

,

,

,

,

,

.

Acknowledgements

The authors would like to thank
,
Talaulikar Jeﬀ Tantsura Bruno Decraene Carlos Pignataro Wim Hendrickx
, and
Velde

Yimin Shen George Swallow Acee Lindem Les Ginsberg Ketan
,
Gunter Van de

 for their valuable comments.

,

,

,

,

,

,

Contributors

The following people contributed to the content of this document and should be considered as
coauthors:

Gunter Van de Velde (editor)
Nokia
Antwerp
Belgium
Email:

 gunter.van_de_velde@nokia.com

Wim Henderickx
Nokia
Belgium
Email:

 wim.henderickx@nokia.com

Keyur Patel
Arrcus
United States of America
Email:

 keyur@arrcus.com

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9088

Signaling ELC and ERLD Using IS-IS

August 2021

Authors' Addresses

Xiaohu Xu
Capitalonline
Email:

 xiaohu.xu@capitalonline.net

Sriganesh Kini
Email:

 sriganeshkini@gmail.com

Peter Psenak
Cisco Systems, Inc.
Eurovea Centre, Central 3
Pribinova Street 10
81109 Bratislava
Slovakia
Email:

 ppsenak@cisco.com

Clarence Filsﬁls
Cisco Systems, Inc.
Brussels
Belgium
Email:

 cﬁlsﬁl@cisco.com

Stephane Litkowski
Cisco Systems, Inc.
La Rigourdiere
Cesson Sevigne
France
Email:

 slitkows@cisco.com

Matthew Bocci
Nokia
740 Waterside Drive
Aztec West Business Park
Bristol
BS32 4UF
United Kingdom
Email:

 matthew.bocci@nokia.com

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

