Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9827
7296
Standards Track
November 2025
2070-1721
V. Smyslov
ELVIS-PLUS

RFC 9827
Renaming the Extended Sequence Numbers (ESN)
Transform Type in the Internet Key Exchange
Protocol Version 2 (IKEv2)

Abstract

This document clarifies and extends the meaning of Transform Type 5 in Internet Key Exchange
Protocol Version 2 (IKEv2). It updates RFC 7296 by renaming Transform Type 5 from "Extended
Sequence Numbers (ESN)" to "Sequence Numbers (SN)". It also renames two currently defined
values for this Transform Type: value 0 from "No Extended Sequence Numbers" to "32-bit
Sequential Numbers" and value 1 from "Extended Sequence Numbers" to "Partially Transmitted
64-bit Sequential Numbers".

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9827
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Smyslov

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9827

Renaming ESN in IKEv2

November 2025

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Problem Description

3.  Extending the Semantics of Transform Type 5

4.  Security Considerations

5.  IANA Considerations

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

6.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

2

3

4

5

5

7

7

7

8

8

[RFC4301]

[RFC4302]

 and Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP)

 defines a set of security services provided by the

The IP Security (IPsec) Architecture
Authentication Header (AH)
. One
of these services is replay protection, which is referred to as "anti-replay" in these documents. In
IPsec, the anti-replay service is optional; each receiver of AH and/or ESP packets can choose
whether to enable it on a per Security Association (SA) basis. The replay protection in AH and
ESP is achieved by means of a monotonically increasing counter that never wraps around and is
sent in each AH or ESP packet in the Sequence Number field. The receiver maintains a sliding
window that allows duplicate packets to be detected.

[RFC4303]

Both AH and ESP allow use of either a 32-bit counter or a 64-bit counter. The latter case is
referred to as Extended Sequence Numbers (ESN) in AH and ESP specifications. Since the
Sequence Number field in both AH and ESP headers is only 32 bits in size, in case of ESN the
high-order 32 bits of the counter are not transmitted and are determined by the receiver based
on previously received packets.

Smyslov

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9827

Renaming ESN in IKEv2

November 2025

[RFC4303], Section 3.3.3

The receiver decides whether to enable the anti-replay service based only on the receiver's local
policy, so the sender, in accordance with the specifications for AH (
) and
ESP (
), should always assume that the replay protection is enabled on the
receiving side. Thus, the sender should always send the increasing counter values and should
take care that the counter never wraps around. AH and ESP specifications also discuss situations
in which replay protection is not possible to achieve, even if senders do all as prescribed -- like
in multicast Security Associations with multiple unsynchronized senders. Both AH and ESP
specifications allow the sender to avoid maintaining the counter if the sender has been notified
that the anti-replay service is disabled by the receiver or is not possible to achieve.

[RFC4302], Section 3.3.2

AH and ESP Security Associations are usually established using IKEv2
. The process of
SA establishment includes calculation of a shared key and negotiation of various SA parameters,
such as cryptographic algorithms. This negotiation in IKEv2 is performed via transforms (see
Section 3.3.2 of [RFC7296]
negotiated. Each Transform Type has an associated list of possible values (called Transform IDs)
that determine the possible options for negotiation. See
Types and associated Transform IDs.

). The type of transform determines what parameter is being

 for the list of Transform

[IKEV2-IANA]

[RFC7296]

Transform Type 5 ("Extended Sequence Numbers (ESN)") is used in IKEv2 to negotiate the way
sequence numbers for replay protection are generated, transmitted, and processed in the
context of an SA. There are two values are defined for this Transform Type -- "No Extended
Sequence Numbers" and "Extended Sequence Numbers".

This document updates the IKEv2 specification
the two associated Transform IDs.

[RFC7296]

 by renaming Transform Type 5 and

2.  Problem Description

IKEv2 currently has no means to negotiate the case when both peers agree that replay
protection is not needed. Even when both peers locally disable anti-replay service as receivers,
they still need to maintain increasing sequence numbers as senders, taking care that they never
wrap around (see

[ANTIREPLAY]

).

There is also no way to inform receivers that replay protection is not possible for a particular SA
(for example in case of a multicast SA with several unsynchronized senders).

Future IPsec protocols may provide more options for the handling of anti-replay counters, like
sending full 64-bit sequence numbers or completely omitting them in packets (see
options will require means to be negotiated in IKEv2.

[EESP]

). These

Transform Type 5 is the best candidate for addressing these issues: it is already used for
negotiation of how sequence numbers are handled in AH and ESP, and it is possible to define
additional Transform IDs that could be used in the corresponding situations. However, the
current definition of Transform Type 5 is too narrow -- its name implies that this transform can
only be used for negotiation of using ESN.

Smyslov

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9827

Renaming ESN in IKEv2

November 2025

3.  Extending the Semantics of Transform Type 5

This document extends the semantics of Transform Type 5 in IKEv2 to be defined as follows:

Transform Type 5 defines the set of properties of sequence numbers of IPsec packets of a
given SA when these packets enter the network.

This updated definition is clarified as follows:

•

"Sequence numbers" in this definition are not necessarily the content of the Sequence
Number field in the IPsec packets; they may also be some logical entities (e.g., counters) that
could be constructed taking some information that is not transmitted on the wire into
account.

•

The properties are interpreted as characteristics of IPsec SA packets rather than the results
of sender actions. For example, in multicast SA with multiple unsynchronized senders, even
if each sender ensures the uniqueness of sequence numbers it generates, the uniqueness of
sequence numbers for all IPsec packets is not guaranteed.

•

The properties are defined for the packets just entering the network and not for the packets
that receivers get. This is because network behavior may break some of these properties
(e.g., packet duplication would break sequence number uniqueness).

•

The properties of sequence numbers are interpreted in a broad sense, which includes the
case when sequence numbers are absent.

Given this updated definition, Transform Type 5 in the "Transform Type Values" registry
IANA]
(SN)" in the sense that it defines the properties of the sequence numbers in general.

 has been renamed from "Extended Sequence Numbers (ESN)" to "Sequence Numbers

[IKEV2-

[RFC9838]

It is expected that new Transform IDs will be defined for this Transform Type in the future (like
in G-IKEv2
 for the case of multicast SAs). Documents defining new Transform IDs
should include descriptions of the properties the sequence numbers would have if the new
Transform ID was selected. In particular, the descriptions should include discussion of whether
these properties allow replay protection to be achieved.

[RFC9347]

 or Aggregation and Fragmentation for
Some existing protocols (like Implicit IV in ESP
ESP
) rely on properties that are guaranteed for the currently defined Transform IDs;
however, this might not be true for future Transform IDs. When a new Transform ID is defined,
its description should include discussion about the possibility of using the Transform ID in
protocols that rely on some particular properties of sequence numbers.

[RFC8750]

The two currently defined Transform IDs for Transform Type 5 define the following properties
of sequence numbers.

•

Value 0 defines sequence numbers as monotonically increasing 32-bit counters that are
transmitted in the Sequence Number field of AH and ESP packets. They never wrap around
and are guaranteed to be unique, thus they are suitable for replay protection. They can also
be used with protocols that rely on sequence number uniqueness (e.g.,

[RFC8750]

) or

Smyslov

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9827

Renaming ESN in IKEv2

November 2025

monotonically increasing sequence numbers (e.g.,
actions are defined in Sections 3.3.2 and 3.4.3 of
3.4.3 of

[RFC4303]

 for ESP.

[RFC9347]

). The sender and the receiver
 for AH and in Sections 3.3.3 and

[RFC4302]

•

Value 1 defines sequence numbers as monotonically increasing 64-bit counters. The low-
order 32 bits are transmitted in the Sequence Number field of AH and ESP packets, and the
high-order 32 bits are implicitly determined on receivers based on previously received
packets. The sequence numbers never wrap around and are guaranteed to be unique, thus
they are suitable for replay protection. They can also be used with protocols that rely on
[RFC9347]
sequence number uniqueness (e.g.,
To correctly process the incoming packets on receivers, the packets must be authenticated
(even when the replay protection is not used). The sender and the receiver actions are
defined in Sections 3.3.2 and 3.4.3 of
[RFC4303]

 for AH and in Sections 3.3.3 and 3.4.3 of

) or their monotonic increase (e.g.,

[RFC4302]

[RFC8750]

 for ESP.

).

Given the descriptions above and the new definition of Transform Type 5, the two currently
defined Transform IDs are renamed to better reflect the properties of sequence numbers they
assume.

•

Transform ID 0 is renamed from "No Extended Sequence Numbers" to "32-bit Sequential
Numbers".

•

Transform ID 1 is renamed from "Extended Sequence Numbers" to "Partially Transmitted 64-
bit Sequential Numbers".

Note that the above descriptions do not change the existing semantics of these Transform IDs,
they only provide clarification. Also note that ESP and AH packet processing for these Transform
IDs is not affected, and bits on the wire do not change.

4.  Security Considerations

This document does not affect security of the AH, ESP, and IKEv2 protocols.

5.  IANA Considerations

This document makes changes to registries within the "Internet Key Exchange Version 2 (IKEv2)
Parameters" registry group

[IKEV2-IANA]
.

The "Transform Type Values" registry has been updated as follows:

•

renamed Transform Type 5 from "Extended Sequence Numbers (ESN)" to "Sequence
Numbers (SN)".

•

added as a reference to this RFC for Transform Type 5.

•

added the following note:

Smyslov

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9827

Renaming ESN in IKEv2

November 2025

The "Sequence Numbers (SN)" Transform Type was originally named "Extended
Sequence Numbers (ESN)" and was referenced by that name in a number of RFCs
published prior to [RFC9827], which gave it the current title.

The "Transform Type 5 - Extended Sequence Numbers Transform IDs" registry has been updated
as follows:

•

renamed the registry from "Transform Type 5 - Extended Sequence Numbers Transform
IDs" to "Transform Type 5 - Sequence Numbers Transform IDs" and added this document as
a reference.

•

split the "Reserved" (2-65535) range of numbers as shown below.

Number

Name

Reference

2-1023

Unassigned

1024-65535

Reserved for Private Use

[RFC9827]

Table 1

•

renamed Transform ID 0 from "No Extended Sequence Numbers" to "32-bit Sequential
Numbers".

•

renamed Transform ID 1 from "Extended Sequence Numbers" to "Partially Transmitted 64-
bit Sequential Numbers".

•

added a reference to this RFC for Transform ID 0 and Transform ID 1.

•

added the following registry notes:

This registry was originally named "Transform Type 5 - Extended Sequence
Numbers Transform IDs" and was referenced using that name in a number of RFCs
published prior to [RFC9827], which gave it the current title.

The "32-bit Sequential Numbers" Transform ID was originally named "No Extended
Sequence Numbers" and was referenced by that name in a number of RFCs
published prior to [RFC9827], which gave it the current title.

The "Partially Transmitted 64-bit Sequential Numbers" Transform ID was originally
named "Extended Sequence Numbers" and was referenced by that name in a
number of RFCs published prior to [RFC9827], which gave it the current title.

Smyslov

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9827

Renaming ESN in IKEv2

November 2025

Numbers in the range 2-65535 were originally marked as "Reserved" and were
reclassified as "Unassigned" and "Reserved for Private Use" by [RFC9827].

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

[IKEV2-IANA]

[RFC4301]

[RFC4302]

[RFC4303]

[RFC7296]

,

IANA "Internet Key Exchange Version 2 (IKEv2) Parameters" <http://
www.iana.org/assignments/ikev2-parameters>

,

.

 and

Kent, S.
DOI 10.17487/RFC4301
rfc4301>

.

K. Seo "Security Architecture for the Internet Protocol" RFC 4301

,

,

,

, December 2005,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

Kent, S. "IP Authentication Header" RFC 4302 DOI 10.17487/RFC4302
2005,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4302>
.

,

, December

Kent, S. "IP Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP)" RFC 4303 DOI 10.17487/
,
RFC4303

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4303>

, December 2005,

,

,

.

,

Kaufman, C. Hoffman, P. Nir, Y. Eronen, P.
Exchange Protocol Version 2 (IKEv2)" STD 79 RFC 7296 DOI 10.17487/RFC7296
October 2014,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7296>
.

T. Kivinen "Internet Key

, and
,

,

,

,

,

,

6.2.  Informative References

[ANTIREPLAY]

[EESP]

[RFC8750]

[RFC9347]

[RFC9838]

, and

P. Wouters "IKEv2 Support for Anti-Replay Status

Pan, W. He, Q.
,
Notification" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-pan-ipsecme-anti-replay-
,
notification-01
ipsecme-anti-replay-notification-01>

,
,
, 21 October 2024,

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-pan-

.

Klassert, S. Antony, A.
,
Payload (EESP)" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-ipsecme-eesp-02
October 2025,

, 19
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-ipsecme-eesp-02>
.

C. Hopps "Enhanced Encapsulating Security

, and

,

,

,

,

Migault, D. Guggemos, T.
Counter-Based Ciphers in Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP)" RFC 8750 DOI
10.17487/RFC8750

Y. Nir "Implicit Initialization Vector (IV) for

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8750>

, March 2020,

, and

,

,

,

.

,

Hopps, C. "Aggregation and Fragmentation Mode for Encapsulating Security
Payload (ESP) and Its Use for IP Traffic Flow Security (IP-TFS)" RFC 9347 DOI
10.17487/RFC9347

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9347>

, January 2023,

,

,

.

 and

Smyslov, V.
Exchange Protocol Version 2 (IKEv2)" RFC 9838 DOI 10.17487/RFC9838
November 2025,

B. Weis "Group Key Management Using the Internet Key
,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9838>

,

,

.

Smyslov

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9827

Renaming ESN in IKEv2

November 2025

Acknowledgements

This document was created as a result of discussions with
Wouters
Sequence Numbers transform in IKEv2.

Antony Antony

, and

 about the best way to extend the meaning of the Extended

Russ Housley Tero Kivinen Paul

,

,

Author's Address

Valery Smyslov
ELVIS-PLUS
Russian Federation
Email:

svan@elvis.ru

Smyslov

Standards Track

Page 8

