Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9854
Standards Track
October 2025
2070-1721

C.E. Perkins
Blue Meadow Networks

S.V.R. Anand
Indian Institute of Science

S. Anamalamudi
SRM University-AP

B. Liu
Huawei Technologies

RFC 9854
AODV-RPL: The Routing Protocol for Low-Power and
Lossy Networks (RPL) Based on Ad Hoc On-Demand
Distance Vector (AODV) Routing

Abstract

Route discovery for symmetric and asymmetric Peer-to-Peer (P2P) traffic flows is a desirable
feature in Low-Power and Lossy Networks (LLNs). For that purpose, this document specifies
AODV-RPL -- the Routing Protocol for Low-Power and Lossy Networks (RPL) based on Ad hoc On-
demand Distance Vector (AODV) routing. AODV-RPL is a reactive P2P route discovery
mechanism for both hop-by-hop routes and source routing. Paired instances are used to
construct directional paths for cases where there are asymmetric links between source and
target nodes.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9854
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9854

AODV-RPL

October 2025

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  Overview of AODV-RPL

4.  AODV-RPL DIO Options

4.1.  AODV-RPL RREQ Option

4.2.  AODV-RPL RREP Option

4.3.  AODV-RPL Target Option

5.  Symmetric and Asymmetric Routes

6.  AODV-RPL Operation

6.1.  Generating RREQ

6.2.  Receiving and Forwarding RREQ Messages

6.2.1.  Step 1: RREQ Reception and Evaluation

6.2.2.  Step 2: TargNode and Intermediate Router Determination

6.2.3.  Step 3: Intermediate Router RREQ Processing

6.2.4.  Step 4: Symmetric Route Processing at an Intermediate Router

6.2.5.  Step 5: RREQ Propagation at an Intermediate Router

6.2.6.  Step 6: RREQ Reception at TargNode

6.3.  Generating RREP at TargNode

6.3.1.  RREP-DIO for Symmetric Route

6.3.2.  RREP-DIO for Asymmetric Route

6.3.3.  RPLInstanceID Pairing

6.4.  Receiving and Forwarding RREP

6.4.1.  Step 1: Receiving and Evaluation

6.4.2.  Step 2: OrigNode or Intermediate Router

3

4

7

8

8

9

11

12

14

14

15

15

16

16

17

17

17

17

18

18

18

19

19

19

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9854

AODV-RPL

October 2025

6.4.3.  Step 3: Build Route to TargNode

6.4.4.  Step 4: RREP Propagation

7.  Gratuitous RREP

8.  Operation of Trickle Timer

9.  IANA Considerations

10. Security Considerations

11. References

11.1.  Normative References

11.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Example: Using ETX/RSSI Values to Determine Value of S Bit

Appendix B.  Some Example AODV-RPL Message Flows

B.1.  Example Control Message Flows in Symmetric and Asymmetric Networks

B.2.  Example RREP_WAIT Handling

B.3.  Example G-RREP Handling

Acknowledgements

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

19

20

20

21

21

22

22

22

23

24

26

26

28

29

30

30

31

[RFC6550]

 is an IPv6 distance

The Routing Protocol for Low-Power and Lossy Networks (RPL)
vector routing protocol designed to support multiple traffic flows through a root-based
Destination-Oriented Directed Acyclic Graph (DODAG). Typically, a router does not have routing
information for destinations attached to most other routers. Consequently, for traffic between
routers within the DODAG (i.e., P2P traffic), data packets either have to traverse the root in non-
storing mode or traverse a common ancestor in storing mode. Such P2P traffic is thereby likely
to traverse longer routes and may suffer severe congestion near the root (for more information,
see
considered in this document is assumed to be the same as that described in
[RFC6550]
independent intermediate router. Such routers have different links, and the rules for link
symmetry apply independently for each of these.

). The network environment that is
Section 1 of
. Each radio interface/link and the associated address should be treated as an

[RFC6687] [RFC6997] [RFC6998]

[RFC9010]

, and

,

,

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9854

AODV-RPL

October 2025

[RFC3561]

The route discovery process in AODV-RPL is modeled on the analogous P2P procedure specified
in AODV
. The on-demand property of AODV route discovery is useful for the needs of
routing in RPL-based LLNs when routes are needed but aren't yet established. P2P routing is
desirable to discover shorter routes, especially when it is desired to avoid directing additional
traffic through a root or gateway node of the network. It may happen that some routes need to
be established proactively when known beforehand and when AODV-RPL's route discovery
process introduces unwanted delay when the application is launched.

AODV terminology has been adapted for use with AODV-RPL messages, namely "RREQ" for
"Route Request", and "RREP" for "Route Reply". AODV-RPL currently omits some features
compared to AODV -- in particular, flagging route errors, blocking the use of unidirectional links
[RFC3561]

, multihoming, and handling unnumbered interfaces.

[RFC6551]

), Trickle timers, and support for storing and non-storing

AODV-RPL reuses and extends the core RPL functionality to support routes with bidirectional
asymmetric links. It retains RPL's DODAG formation, RPL Instance and the associated Objective
Function (OF) (defined in
modes. AODV-RPL adds the basic messages RREQ and RREP as part of the RPL DODAG
Information Object (DIO) control message, which go in separate (paired) RPL Instances. AODV-
RPL does not utilize the Destination Advertisement Object (DAO) control message of RPL. AODV-
RPL uses the "P2P Route Discovery Mode of Operation" (MOP == 4) with three new options for
the DIO message, dedicated to discovering P2P routes. These P2P routes may differ from routes
discoverable by RPL
allocated multicast group (see Section 9), there is no conflict with P2P-RPL
document using the same MOP. AODV-RPL can be operated whether or not P2P-RPL or RPL
[RFC6550]
with OFs that cannot be satisfied by routes that are constrained to traverse the root of the
network or other common ancestors. P2P routes often require fewer hops and therefore
consume less resources than routes that traverse the root or other common ancestors. Similar in
cost to base RPL
OrigNode and TargNodes and distribution of symmetric/asymmetric P2P links. Experience with
AODV
routes constrained to traverse a common ancestor of the source and destination nodes.

 is also running. AODV-RPL could be used for networks in which routes are needed

 suggests that AODV-RPL will often find routes with improved Rank compared to

, the cost will depend on many factors such as the proximity of the

. Since AODV-RPL uses newly defined options and a newly

, a previous

[RFC6997]

[RFC6550]

[RFC6550]

[aodv-tot]

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

AODV-RPL reuses names for messages and data structures, including Rank, DODAG, and
DODAGID, as defined in RPL

[RFC6550]
.

This document also uses the following terms:

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9854

AODV

AODV-RPL

October 2025

Ad hoc On-Demand Distance Vector

[RFC3561]

.

ART option

The AODV-RPL Target option defined in this document.

Asymmetric route

The route from the OrigNode to the TargNode can traverse different nodes than the route
from the TargNode to the OrigNode. An asymmetric route may result from the asymmetry of
links, such that only one direction of the series of links satisfies the OF during route discovery.

Bidirectional asymmetric link

A link that can be used in both directions but with different link characteristics.

DIO

DODAG Information Object (as defined in

[RFC6550]

).

DODAG RREQ-Instance (or simply RREQ-Instance)

A RPL Instance built using the DIO with RREQ option; used for transmission of control
messages from OrigNode to TargNode, thus enabling data transmission from TargNode to
OrigNode.

DODAG RREP-Instance (or simply RREP-Instance)

A RPL Instance built using the DIO with RREP option; used for transmission of control
messages from TargNode to OrigNode, thus enabling data transmission from OrigNode to
TargNode.

Downward direction

The direction from the OrigNode to the TargNode.

Downward route

A route in the downward direction.

Hop-by-hop route

A route for which each router along the routing path stores routing information about the
next hop. A hop-by-hop route is created using RPL's "storing mode".

OF

Objective Function (as defined in

[RFC6550]

).

OrigNode

The IPv6 router (originating node) initiating the AODV-RPL route discovery to obtain a route
to TargNode.

Paired DODAGs

Two DODAGs for a single route discovery process between OrigNode and TargNode.

P2P

Peer-to-Peer (in other words, not constrained a priori to traverse a common ancestor).

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9854

AODV-RPL

October 2025

REJOIN_REENABLE

The duration during which a node is prohibited from joining a DODAG with a particular
RREQ-InstanceID, after it has left a DODAG with the same RREQ-InstanceID. The default value
of REJOIN_REENABLE is 15 minutes.

RREQ

Route Request.

RREQ-DIO message

A DIO message containing the RREQ option. The RPLInstanceID in RREQ-DIO is assigned
locally by the OrigNode. The RREQ-DIO message has a secure variant as noted in

[RFC6550]

.

RREQ-InstanceID

The RPLInstanceID for the RREQ-Instance. The RREQ-InstanceID is formed as the ordered
pair (Orig_RPLInstanceID, OrigNode-IPaddr), where Orig_RPLInstanceID is the local
RPLInstanceID allocated by OrigNode and OrigNode-IPaddr is an IP address of OrigNode. The
RREQ-InstanceID uniquely identifies the RREQ-Instance.

RREP

Route Reply.

RREP-DIO message

A DIO message containing the RREP option. OrigNode pairs the RPLInstanceID in RREP-DIO to
the one in the associated RREQ-DIO message (i.e., the RREQ-InstanceID) as described in
Section 6.3.2. The RREP-DIO message has a secure variant as noted in

[RFC6550]

.

RREP-InstanceID

The RPLInstanceID for the RREP-Instance. The RREP-InstanceID is formed as the ordered pair
(Targ_RPLInstanceID, TargNode-IPaddr), where Targ_RPLInstanceID is the local
RPLInstanceID allocated by TargNode and TargNode-IPaddr is an IP address of TargNode. The
RREP-InstanceID uniquely identifies the RREP-Instance. The RPLInstanceID in the RREP
message along with the Delta value indicates the associated RREQ-InstanceID. The
InstanceIDs are matched by the mechanism explained in Section 6.3.3.

Source routing

A mechanism by which the source supplies a vector of addresses towards the destination
.
node along with each data packet

[RFC6550]

Symmetric route

The upstream and downstream routes traverse the same routers and over the same links.

TargNode

The IPv6 router (target node) for which OrigNode requires a route and initiates route
discovery within the LLN.

Upward direction

The direction from the TargNode to the OrigNode.

Upward route

A route in the upward direction.

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9854

AODV-RPL

October 2025

3.  Overview of AODV-RPL

With AODV-RPL, routes from OrigNode to TargNode within the LLN do not become established
until they are needed. The route discovery mechanism in AODV-RPL is invoked when OrigNode
has data for delivery to a TargNode, but existing routes do not satisfy the application's
requirements. For this reason, AODV-RPL is considered to be an example of an "on-demand"
routing protocol. Such protocols are also known as "reactive" routing protocols since their
operations are triggered in reaction to a determination that a new route is needed. AODV-RPL
works without requiring the use of RPL or any other routing protocol.

The routes discovered by AODV-RPL are not constrained to traverse a common ancestor. AODV-
RPL can enable asymmetric communication paths in networks with bidirectional asymmetric
links. For this purpose, AODV-RPL enables discovery of two routes: namely, one from OrigNode
to TargNode and another from TargNode to OrigNode. AODV-RPL also enables discovery of
symmetric routes along paired DODAGs, when symmetric routes are possible (see Section 5).

In AODV-RPL, routes are discovered by first forming a temporary Directed Acyclic Graph (DAG)
rooted at the OrigNode. Paired DODAGs (Instances) are constructed during route formation
between the OrigNode and TargNode. The RREQ-Instance is formed by route control messages
from OrigNode to TargNode, whereas the RREP-Instance is formed by route control messages
from TargNode to OrigNode. The route discovered in the RREQ-Instance is used for transmitting
data from TargNode to OrigNode, and the route discovered in RREP-Instance is used for
transmitting data from OrigNode to TargNode.

Intermediate routers join the DODAGs based on the Rank
messages. AODV-RPL uses the same notion of Rank as defined in

[RFC6550]

[RFC6550]
:

 as calculated from the DIO

The Rank is the expression of a relative position within a DODAG Version with regard to
neighbors, and it is not necessarily a good indication or a proper expression of a
distance or a path cost to the root.

The Rank measurements provided in AODV messages do not indicate a distance or a path cost to
the root.

Henceforth in this document, "RREQ-DIO message" means the DIO message from OrigNode
toward TargNode, containing the RREQ option as specified in Section 4.1. The RREQ-InstanceID is
formed as the ordered pair (Orig_RPLInstanceID, OrigNode-IPaddr), where Orig_RPLInstanceID
is the local RPLInstanceID allocated by OrigNode and OrigNode-IPaddr is the IP address of
OrigNode. A node receiving the RREQ-DIO can use the RREQ-InstanceID to identify the proper OF
whenever that node receives a data packet with Source Address == OrigNode-IPaddr and IPv6
RPL Option having the RPLInstanceID == Orig_RPLInstanceID. The D bit of the RPLInstanceID
field is set to 0 to indicate that the source address of the IPv6 packet is the DODAGID.

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9854

AODV-RPL

October 2025

Similarly, "RREP-DIO message" means the DIO message from TargNode toward OrigNode,
containing the RREP option as specified in Section 4.2. The RREP-InstanceID is formed as the
ordered pair (Targ_RPLInstanceID, TargNode-IPaddr), where Targ_RPLInstanceID is the local
RPLInstanceID allocated by TargNode and TargNode-IPaddr is the IP address of TargNode. A
node receiving the RREP-DIO can use the RREP-InstanceID to identify the proper OF whenever
that node receives a data packet with Source Address == TargNode-IPaddr and IPv6 RPL Option
having the RPLInstanceID == Targ_RPLInstanceID along with D == 0 as above.

4.  AODV-RPL DIO Options

4.1.  AODV-RPL RREQ Option

OrigNode selects one of its IPv6 addresses and sets it in the DODAGID field of the RREQ-DIO
message. The address scope of the selected address
 encompass the domain where the
route is built (e.g, not link-local); otherwise, the route discovery will fail. Exactly one RREQ option
MUST

 be present in an RREQ-DIO message; otherwise, the message

 be dropped.

MUST

MUST

     0                   1                   2                   3
     0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |  Option Type  | Option Length |S|H|X| Compr | L |  RankLimit  |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |  Orig SeqNo   |                                               |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+                                               |
    |                                                               |
    |           Address Vector (Optional, Variable Length)          |
    .                                                               .
    .                                                               .
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ . . .

Figure 1: Format for AODV-RPL RREQ Option

OrigNode supplies the following information in the RREQ option:

Option Type

8-bit unsigned integer specifying the type of the option (0x0B).

Option Length

8-bit unsigned integer specifying the length of the option in octets, excluding the Option Type
and Option Length fields. It is variable due to the presence of the Address Vector and the
number of octets elided according to the Compr value.

Symmetric bit indicating a symmetric route from the OrigNode to the router transmitting this
RREQ-DIO. See Section 5.

S

H

Set to one for a hop-by-hop route. Set to zero for a source route. This flag controls both the
downstream route and upstream route.

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9854

X

AODV-RPL

October 2025

Reserved. This field

MUST

 be initialized to zero and ignored upon reception.

Compr

 be
4-bit unsigned integer. When Compr is nonzero, exactly that number of prefix octets
elided from each address before storing it in the Address Vector. The octets elided are shared
with the IPv6 address in the DODAGID. This field is only used in source routing mode (H=0).
In hop-by-hop mode (H=1), this field

 be set to zero and ignored upon reception.

MUST

MUST

L

SHOULD

 leave the RREQ-Instance and stop sending or receiving any more

2-bit unsigned integer determining the time duration that a node is able to belong to the
RREQ-Instance (a temporary DAG including the OrigNode and the TargNode). Once the time is
reached, a node
DIOs for the RREQ-Instance; otherwise, memory and network resources are likely to be
consumed unnecessarily. This naturally depends on the node's ability to keep track of time.
Once a node leaves an RREQ-Instance, it
 rejoin the same RREQ-Instance for at least
MUST NOT
the time interval specified by the configuration variable REJOIN_REENABLE. L is independent
from the route lifetime, which is defined in the DODAG configuration option.

•

0x00: No time limit imposed

•

0x01: 16 seconds

•

0x02: 64 seconds

•

0x03: 256 seconds

RankLimit

8-bit unsigned integer specifying the upper limit on the integer portion of the Rank
(calculated using the DAGRank() macro defined in
indicates the limit is infinity.

). A value of 0 in this field

[RFC6550]

Orig SeqNo

8-bit unsigned integer specifying the Sequence Number of OrigNode. See Section 6.1.

Address Vector

A vector of IPv6 addresses representing the route that the RREQ-DIO has passed. It is only
present when the H bit is set to 0. The prefix of each address is elided according to the Compr
field.

TargNode can join the RREQ-Instance at a Rank whose integer portion is less than or equal to the
RankLimit. Any other node
or higher than the RankLimit. A router
advertised Rank equals or exceeds the RankLimit.

 join an RREQ-Instance if its own Rank would be equal to
 discard a received RREQ if the integer part of the

MUST NOT

MUST

4.2.  AODV-RPL RREP Option

TargNode sets one of its IPv6 addresses in the DODAGID field of the RREP-DIO message. The
address scope of the selected address must encompass the domain where the route is built (e.g,
not link-local). Exactly one RREP option
the message

 be dropped. TargNode supplies the following information in the RREP option:

 be present in an RREP-DIO message, otherwise,

MUST

MUST

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9854

AODV-RPL

October 2025

    0                   1                   2                   3
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |  Option Type  | Option Length |G|H|X| Compr | L |  RankLimit  |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |   Delta   |X X|                                               |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+                                               |
   |                                                               |
   |                                                               |
   |           Address Vector (Optional, Variable Length)          |
   .                                                               .
   .                                                               .
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ . . .

Figure 2: Format for AODV-RPL RREP Option

Option Type

8-bit unsigned integer specifying the type of the option (0x0C).

Option Length

8-bit unsigned integer specifying the length of the option in octets, excluding the Option Type
and Option Length fields. It is variable due to the presence of the Address Vector and the
number of octets elided according to the Compr value.

Gratuitous RREP (see Section 7).

The H bit in the RREP option
requests either source routing (H=0) or hop-by-hop (H=1) for the downstream route.

 be set to be the same as the H bit in the RREQ option. It

MUST

G

H

X

1-bit Reserved field. This field

MUST

 be initialized to zero and ignored upon reception.

Compr

4-bit unsigned integer. This field has the same definition as in the RREQ option.

L

2-bit unsigned integer defined as in the RREQ option. The lifetime of the RREP-Instance
SHOULD
memory required to store the RREP-Instance can be reclaimed when no longer needed.

 be no greater than the lifetime of the RREQ-Instance to which it is paired, so that the

RankLimit

8-bit unsigned integer specifying the upper limit on the integer portion of the Rank, similarly
to RankLimit in the RREQ message. A value of 0 in this field indicates the limit is infinity.

Delta

6-bit unsigned integer. TargNode uses the Delta field so that nodes receiving its RREP message
can identify the RREQ-InstanceID of the RREQ message that triggered the transmission of the
RREP (see Section 6.3.3).

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9854

X X

AODV-RPL

October 2025

2-bit Reserved field. This field

MUST

 be initialized to zero and ignored upon reception.

Address Vector

Only present when the H bit is set to 0. The prefix of each address is elided according to the
Compr field. For an asymmetric route, the Address Vector represents the IPv6 addresses of
the path through the network the RREP-DIO has passed. In contrast, for a symmetric route, it
is the Address Vector when the RREQ-DIO arrives at the TargNode, unchanged during the
transmission to the OrigNode.

4.3.  AODV-RPL Target Option

The AODV-RPL Target (ART) option is based on the Target option in the core RPL specification
[RFC6550]
the Prefix Length field is reduced to 7 bits so that the value is limited to be no greater than 127.

. The Flags field is replaced by the Destination Sequence Number of the TargNode, and

An RREQ-DIO message
exactly one ART option. Otherwise, the message

MUST

MUST

 be dropped.

 carry at least one ART option. An RREP-DIO message

MUST

 carry

OrigNode can include multiple TargNode addresses via multiple ART options in the RREQ-DIO,
for routes that share the same requirement on metrics. This reduces the cost to building only
one DODAG for multiple targets.

    0                   1                   2                   3
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |  Option Type  | Option Length |  Dest SeqNo   |X|Prefix Length|
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                                                               |
   +                                                               |
   |           Target Prefix / Address (Variable Length)           |
   .                                                               .
   .                                                               .
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ . . .

Figure 3: ART Option Format for AODV-RPL

Option Type

8-bit unsigned integer specifying the type of the option (0x0D).

Option Length

8-bit unsigned integer specifying the length of the option in octets, excluding the Option Type
and Option Length fields.

Dest SeqNo

8-bit unsigned integer. In RREQ-DIO, if nonzero, it is the Sequence Number for the last route
that OrigNode stored to the TargNode for which a route is desired. In RREP-DIO, it is the
Destination Sequence Number associated to the route. Zero is used if there is no known
information about the Sequence Number of TargNode and not used otherwise.

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9854

X

AODV-RPL

October 2025

1-bit Reserved field. This field
by the receiver.

MUST

 be initialized to zero by the sender and

MUST

 be ignored

Prefix Length

7-bit unsigned integer. The Prefix Length field contains the number of valid leading bits in
the prefix. If Prefix Length is 0, then the value in the Target Prefix / Address field represents
an IPv6 address, not a prefix.

Target Prefix / Address

A variable-length field with an IPv6 destination address or prefix. The length of the Target
Prefix / Address field is the least number of octets that can represent all of the bits of the
Prefix, in other words, Ceil(Prefix Length/8) octets. When Prefix Length is not equal to
8*Ceil(Prefix Length/8) and nonzero, the Target Prefix / Address field will contain some initial
bits that are not part of the Target Prefix. Those initial bits (if any)
transmission and
bits.

 be ignored on receipt. If Prefix Length is zero, the Address field is 128

 be set to zero on

MUST

MUST

5.  Symmetric and Asymmetric Routes

Links are considered symmetric until indication to the contrary is received. In Figures 4 and 5,
BR is the Border Router, O is the OrigNode, each R is an intermediate router, and T is the
TargNode. In these examples, the use of BR is only for illustrative purposes; AODV does not
depend on the use of border routers for its operation. If the RREQ-DIO arrives over an interface
that is known to be symmetric and the S bit is set to 1, then it remains as 1, as illustrated in
Figure 4. If an intermediate router sends out RREQ-DIO with the S bit set to 1, then each link en
route from the OrigNode O to this router has met the requirements of route discovery, and the
route can be used symmetrically.

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9854

AODV-RPL

October 2025

                               BR
                           /----+----\
                         /      |      \
                       /        |         \
                      R         R           R
                   _/  \        |          /  \
                  /     \       |         /     \
                 /       \      |        /        \
               R -------- R --- R ----- R -------- R
             /  \   <--S=1-->  / \    <--S=1-->   /  \
      <--S=1-->  \            /   \             /   <--S=1-->
        /         \          /     \          /         \
      O ---------- R ------ R------ R ----- R ----------- T
     / \                   / \             / \           / \
    /   \                 /   \           /   \         /   \
   /     \               /     \         /     \       /     \
  R ----- R ----------- R ----- R ----- R ----- R ---- R----- R

    >---- RREQ-Instance (Control: O-->T;  Data: T-->O) ------->
    <---- RREP-Instance (Control: T-->O;  Data: O-->T) -------<

Figure 4: AODV-RPL with Symmetric Instances

Upon receiving an RREQ-DIO with the S bit set to 1, a node determines whether the link over
which it was received can be used symmetrically, i.e., both directions meet the requirements of
data transmission. If the RREQ-DIO arrives over an interface that is not known to be symmetric
or is known to be asymmetric, the S bit is set to 0. If the S bit arrives already set to be 0, then it is
set to be 0 when the RREQ-DIO is propagated (Figure 5). For an asymmetric route, there is at
least one hop that doesn't satisfy the OF. Based on the S bit received in RREQ-DIO, TargNode T
determines whether or not the route is symmetric before transmitting the RREP-DIO message
upstream towards the OrigNode O.

It is beyond the scope of this document to specify the criteria used when determining whether
or not each link is symmetric. As an example, intermediate routers can use local information
), a priori knowledge (e.g.,
(e.g., bit rate, bandwidth, number of cells used in 6TiSCH
link quality according to previous communication), or averaging techniques as appropriate to
the application. Other link metric information can be acquired before AODV-RPL operation, by
executing evaluation procedures; for instance, test traffic can be generated between nodes of the
deployed network. During AODV-RPL operation, Operations, Administration, and Maintenance
(OAM) techniques for evaluating link state (see
used (at regular intervals appropriate for the LLN). The evaluation procedures are out of scope
for AODV-RPL. For further information on this topic, see
wireless]

[Link_Asymmetry] [low-power-

[RFC7548] [RFC7276]
,

[empirical-study]
.

[co-ioam] MAY

[RFC9030]

, and

, and

 be

)

,

Appendix A describes an example method using the upstream Expected Transmission Count
(ETX) and downstream Received Signal Strength Indicator (RSSI) to estimate whether the link is
symmetric in terms of link quality using an averaging technique.

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9854

AODV-RPL

October 2025

                                  BR
                              /----+----\
                            /      |      \
                          /        |        \
                        R          R          R
                      / \          |        /   \
                    /     \        |       /      \
                  /         \      |      /         \
                 R --------- R --- R ---- R --------- R
               /  \   --S=1-->   / \    --S=0-->   /   \
         --S=1-->   \           /    \            /   --S=0-->
          /          \        /       \         /         \
        O ---------- R ------ R------ R ----- R ----------- T
       / \                   / \             / \           / \
      /  <--S=0--           /   \           /   \         / <--S=0--
     /     \               /     \         /     \       /     \
    R ----- R ----------- R ----- R ----- R ----- R ---- R----- R
                <--S=0--   <--S=0-- <--S=0-- <--S=0--    <--S=0--

    >---- RREQ-Instance (Control: O-->T;  Data: T-->O) ------->
    <---- RREP-Instance (Control: T-->O;  Data: O-->T) -------<

Figure 5: AODV-RPL with Asymmetric Paired Instances

As illustrated in Figure 5, an intermediate router determines the S bit value that the RREQ-DIO
should carry using link asymmetry detection methods as discussed earlier in this section. In
many cases, the intermediate router has already made the link asymmetry decision by the time
RREQ-DIO arrives.

See Appendix B for examples illustrating RREQ and RREP transmissions in some networks with
symmetric and asymmetric links.

6.  AODV-RPL Operation

6.1.  Generating RREQ

The route discovery process is initiated when an application at the OrigNode has data to be
transmitted to the TargNode but does not have a route that satisfies the OF for the target of the
application's data. In this case, the OrigNode builds a local RPL Instance and a DODAG rooted at
itself. Then, it transmits a DIO message containing exactly one RREQ option (see Section 4.1) to
multicast group all-AODV-RPL-nodes. The RREQ-DIO
 contain at least one ART option (see
Section 4.3), which indicates the TargNode. The S bit in RREQ-DIO sent out by the OrigNode is set
to 1.

MUST

Each node maintains a Sequence Number; the operation is specified in
When the OrigNode initiates a route discovery process, it
Number to avoid conflicts with previously established routes. The Sequence Number is carried
in the Orig SeqNo field of the RREQ option.

 increase its own Sequence

Section 7.2 of [RFC6550]
.

MUST

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9854

AODV-RPL

October 2025

The Target Prefix / Address in the ART option can be a unicast IPv6 address or a prefix. The
OrigNode can initiate the route discovery process for multiple targets simultaneously by
including multiple ART options. Within an RREQ-DIO, the OF for the routes to different
TargNodes

 be the same.

MUST

OrigNode can maintain different RPL Instances to discover routes with different requirements to
the same targets. Using the RPLInstanceID pairing mechanism (see Section 6.3.3), route replies
(RREP-DIOs) for different RPL Instances can be generated.

The transmission of RREQ-DIO obeys the Trickle timer
L field has elapsed, the OrigNode
related RPL Instance. OrigNode needs to set the L field such that the DODAG will not
prematurely timeout during data transfer with the TargNode. For setting this value, it has to
consider factors such as the Trickle timer, TargNode hop distance, network size, link behavior,
expected data usage time, and so on.

 leave the DODAG and stop sending RREQ-DIOs in the

. If the duration specified by the

[RFC6206]

MUST

6.2.  Receiving and Forwarding RREQ Messages

6.2.1.  Step 1: RREQ Reception and Evaluation

When a router X receives an RREQ message over a link from a neighbor Y, X first determines
whether or not the RREQ is valid. If valid, X then determines whether or not it has sufficient
resources available to maintain the RREQ-Instance and the value of the S bit needed to process
an eventual RREP, if the RREP were to be received. If not valid, then X
sufficient resources (the means for this are beyond the scope of this document), or drop the
packet and discontinue processing of the RREQ. Otherwise, X next determines whether the RREQ
advertises a usable route to OrigNode, by checking whether the link to Y can be used to transmit
packets to OrigNode.

 either free up

MUST

MUST

MUST

 drop the RREQ-DIO if one of its addresses is

When H=0 in the incoming RREQ, the router
present in the Address Vector. When H=1 in the incoming RREQ, the router
 drop the RREQ
message if the Orig SeqNo field of the RREQ is older than the SeqNo value that X has stored for a
route to OrigNode. Otherwise, the router determines whether to propagate the RREQ-DIO. It does
this by determining whether or not a route to OrigNode using the upstream direction of the
incoming link satisfies the Objective Function (OF). In order to evaluate the OF, the router first
determines the maximum useful Rank (MaxUsefulRank). If the router has previously joined the
RREQ-Instance associated with the RREQ-DIO, then MaxUsefulRank is set to be the Rank value
that was stored when the router processed the best previous RREQ for the DODAG with the given
RREQ-Instance. Otherwise, MaxUsefulRank is set to be RankLimit. If OF cannot be satisfied (i.e.,
the Rank evaluates to a value greater than MaxUsefulRank), the RREQ-DIO
and the following steps are not processed. Otherwise, the router
and prepare to propagate the RREQ-DIO, as follows. The upstream neighbor router that
transmitted the received RREQ-DIO is selected as the preferred parent in the RREQ-Instance.

 be dropped,
 join the RREQ-Instance

MUST

MUST

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9854

AODV-RPL

October 2025

6.2.2.  Step 2: TargNode and Intermediate Router Determination

After determining that a received RREQ provides a usable route to OrigNode, a router
determines whether it is a TargNode, a possible intermediate router between OrigNode and a
TargNode, or both. The router is a TargNode if it finds one of its own addresses in a Target
option in the RREQ. After possibly propagating the RREQ according to the procedures in Steps 3,
4, and 5, the TargNode generates an RREP as specified in Section 6.3. If S=0, the determination of
TargNode status and determination of a usable route to OrigNode is the same.

If the OrigNode tries to reach multiple TargNodes in a single RREQ-Instance, one of the
TargNodes can be an intermediate router to other TargNodes. In this case, before transmitting
 delete the Target option
the RREQ-DIO to multicast group all-AODV-RPL-nodes, a TargNode
encapsulating its own address, so that downstream routers with higher Rank values do not try to
create a route to this TargNode.

MUST

An intermediate router could receive several RREQ-DIOs from routers with lower Rank values in
the same RREQ-Instance with different lists of Target options. For the purposes of determining
the intersection with previous incoming RREQ-DIOs, the intermediate router maintains a record
of the targets that have been requested for a given RREQ-Instance. An incoming RREQ-DIO
message having multiple ART options coming from a router with higher Rank than the Rank of
the stored targets is ignored. When transmitting the RREQ-DIO, the intersection of all received
lists
 be included if it is nonempty after TargNode has deleted the Target option
encapsulating its own address. If the intersection is empty, it means that all the targets have
been reached, and the router
Section 6.2.3.

 transmit any RREQ-DIO. Otherwise, it proceeds to

MUST NOT

MUST

For example, suppose two RREQ-DIOs are received with the same RPL Instance and OrigNode.
Suppose further that the first RREQ has (T1, T2) as the targets, and the second one has (T2, T4) as
targets. Then, only T2 needs to be included in the generated RREQ-DIO.

The reasoning for using the intersection of the lists in the RREQs is as follows. When two or
more RREQs are received with the same Orig SeqNo, they were transmitted by OrigNode with
the same destinations and OF. When an intermediate node receives two RREQs with the same
Orig SeqNo but different lists of destinations, that means that some intermediate nodes
retransmitting the RREQs have already deleted themselves from the list of destinations before
they retransmitted the RREQ. Those deleted nodes are not to be reinserted back into the list of
destinations.

6.2.3.  Step 3: Intermediate Router RREQ Processing

The intermediate router establishes itself as a viable node for a route to OrigNode as follows. If
the H bit is set to 1, for a hop-by-hop route, then the router
 build or update its upward
route entry towards OrigNode, which includes at least the following items: Source Address,
RPLInstanceID, Destination Address, Next Hop, Lifetime, and Sequence Number. The Destination
Address and the RPLInstanceID can be learned from the DODAGID and the RPLInstanceID of the
RREQ-DIO, respectively. The Source Address is the address used by the router to send data to the
Next Hop, i.e., the preferred parent. The lifetime is set according to DODAG configuration (not

MUST

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9854

AODV-RPL

October 2025

the L field) and can be extended when the route is actually used. The Sequence Number
represents the freshness of the route entry; it is copied from the Orig SeqNo field of the RREQ
option. A route entry with the same source and destination address and the same
RPLInstanceID, but a stale Sequence Number (i.e., incoming Sequence Number is less than the
currently stored Sequence Number of the route entry),

 be deleted.

MUST

6.2.4.  Step 4: Symmetric Route Processing at an Intermediate Router

If the S bit of the incoming RREQ-DIO is 0, then the route cannot be symmetric, and the S bit of
the RREQ-DIO to be transmitted is set to 0. Otherwise, the router
 determine whether the
downward direction (i.e., towards the TargNode) of the incoming link satisfies the OF. If it does,
the S bit of the RREQ-DIO to be transmitted is set to 1. Otherwise, the S bit of the RREQ-DIO to be
transmitted is set to 0.

MUST

When a router joins the RREQ-Instance, it also associates within its data structure for the RREQ-
Instance the information about whether or not the RREQ-DIO to be transmitted has the S bit set
to 1. This information associated to RREQ-Instance is known as the S bit of the RREQ-Instance. It
will be used later during the RREP-DIO message processing (see Section 6.3.2).

Suppose a router has joined the RREQ-Instance, the H bit is set to 0, and the S bit of the RREQ-
Instance is set to 1. In this case, the router
symmetric route back to OrigNode as part of the RREQ-Instance data. This is useful if the router
later receives an RREP-DIO that is paired with the RREQ-Instance. If the router does NOT include
the Address Vector, then it has to rely on multicast for the RREP. The multicast can impose a
substantial performance penalty.

 optionally include the Address Vector of the

MAY

6.2.5.  Step 5: RREQ Propagation at an Intermediate Router

If the router is an intermediate router, then it transmits the RREQ-DIO to the multicast group all-
AODV-RPL-nodes; if the H bit is set to 0, the intermediate router
interface receiving the RREQ-DIO into the Address Vector. In addition, if the address of the
router's interface transmitting the RREQ-DIO is not the same as the address of the interface
receiving the RREQ-DIO, the router
Address Vector.

 also append the transmitting interface address into the

 append the address of its

MUST

MUST

6.2.6.  Step 6: RREQ Reception at TargNode

If the router is a TargNode and was already associated with the RREQ-Instance, it takes no
further action and does not send an RREP-DIO. If TargNode is not already associated with the
RREQ-Instance, it prepares and transmits an RREP-DIO, possibly after waiting for
RREP_WAIT_TIME, as detailed in (Section 6.3).

6.3.  Generating RREP at TargNode

When a TargNode receives an RREQ message over a link from a neighbor Y, TargNode first
follows the procedures in Section 6.2. If the link to Y can be used to transmit packets to
OrigNode, TargNode generates an RREP according to Sections 6.3.1 and 6.3.2. Otherwise,
TargNode drops the RREQ and does not generate an RREP.

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9854

AODV-RPL

October 2025

MAY

 delay transmitting the RREP-DIO for the duration

If the L field is not 0, the TargNode
RREP_WAIT_TIME to await a route with a lower Rank. The value of RREP_WAIT_TIME is set by
default to 1/4 of the duration determined by the L field. For L == 0, RREP_WAIT_TIME is set by
default to 0. Depending upon the application, RREP_WAIT_TIME may be set to other values.
Smaller values enable quicker formation for the P2P route. Larger values enable formation of
P2P routes with better Rank values.

The address of the OrigNode
DIO message along with the SeqNo of TargNode.

MUST

 be encapsulated in the ART option and included in this RREP-

6.3.1.  RREP-DIO for Symmetric Route

If the RREQ-Instance corresponding to the RREQ-DIO that arrived at TargNode has the S bit set to
1, there is a symmetric route, both of whose directions satisfy the OF. Other RREQ-DIOs might
later provide better upward routes. The method of selection between a qualified symmetric
route and an asymmetric route that might have better performance is implementation specific
and out of scope.

For a symmetric route, the RREP-DIO message is unicast to the Next Hop according to the
Address Vector (H=0) or the route entry (H=1); the DODAG in RREP-Instance does not need to be
built. The RPLInstanceID in the RREP-Instance is paired as defined in Section 6.3.3. If the H bit is
set to 0, the Address Vector from the RREQ-DIO

 be included in the RREP-DIO.

MUST

6.3.2.  RREP-DIO for Asymmetric Route

When an RREQ-DIO arrives at a TargNode with the S bit set to 0, the TargNode
DODAG in the RREP-Instance corresponding to the RREQ-DIO rooted at itself, in order to provide
OrigNode with a downstream route to the TargNode. The RREP-DIO message is transmitted to
multicast group all-AODV-RPL-nodes.

 build a

MUST

6.3.3.  RPLInstanceID Pairing

Since the RPLInstanceID is assigned locally (i.e., there is no coordination between routers in the
assignment of RPLInstanceID), the tuple (OrigNode, TargNode, RPLInstanceID) is needed to
uniquely identify a discovered route. It is possible that multiple route discoveries with dissimilar
OFs are initiated simultaneously. Thus, between the same pair of OrigNode and TargNode, there
can be multiple AODV-RPL route discovery instances. So that OrigNode and TargNode can avoid
any mismatch, they
discovery by using the RPLInstanceID.

 pair the RREQ-Instance and the RREP-Instance in the same route

MUST

When preparing the RREP-DIO, a TargNode could find the RPLInstanceID candidate for the RREP-
Instance is already occupied by another RPL Instance from an earlier route discovery operation
that is still active. This unlikely case might happen if two distinct OrigNodes need routes to the
same TargNode, and they happen to use the same RPLInstanceID for RREQ-Instance. In such
cases, the RPLInstanceID of an already active RREP-Instance
assigning RPLInstanceID for the later RREP-Instance. If the same RPLInstanceID were reused for
two distinct DODAGs originated with the same DODAGID (TargNode address), intermediate
routers could not distinguish between these DODAGs (and their associated OFs). Instead, the
RPLInstanceID

 be replaced by another value so that the two RREP-Instances can be

 be used again for

MUST NOT

MUST

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9854

AODV-RPL

October 2025

distinguished. In the RREP-DIO option, the Delta field of the RREP-DIO message (Figure 2)
indicates the value that TargNode adds to the RPLInstanceID in the RREQ-DIO that it received, to
obtain the value of the RPLInstanceID it uses in the RREP-DIO message. 0 indicates that the RREQ-
InstanceID has the same value as the RPLInstanceID of the RREP message. When the new
RPLInstanceID after incrementation exceeds 255, it rolls over starting at 0. For example, if the
RREQ-InstanceID is 252 and incremented by 6, the new RPLInstanceID will be 2. Related
operations can be found in Section 6.4. RPLInstanceID collisions do not occur across RREQ-DIOs;
the DODAGID equals the OrigNode address and is sufficient to disambiguate between DODAGs.

6.4.  Receiving and Forwarding RREP

Upon receiving an RREP-DIO, a router that already belongs to the RREP-Instance
the RREP-DIO. Otherwise, the router performs the steps in the following subsections.

SHOULD

 drop

6.4.1.  Step 1: Receiving and Evaluation

If the OF is not satisfied, the router
DIO and does not execute the remaining steps in this section. An intermediate router
discard an RREP if one of its addresses is present in the Address Vector and does not execute the
remaining steps in this section.

 discard the RREP-
MUST

 join the DODAG; the router

MUST NOT

MUST

If the S bit of the associated RREQ-Instance is set to 1, the router

MUST

 proceed to Section 6.4.2.

If the S bit of the RREQ-Instance is set to 0, the router
 determine whether the downward
direction of the link (towards the TargNode) over which the RREP-DIO is received satisfies the
OF and whether the router's Rank would not exceed the RankLimit. If these are true, the router
joins the DODAG of the RREP-Instance. The router that transmitted the received RREP-DIO is
selected as the preferred parent. Afterwards, other RREP-DIO messages can be received; AODV-
RPL does not specify any action to be taken in such cases.

MUST

6.4.2.  Step 2: OrigNode or Intermediate Router

The router updates its stored value of the TargNode's Sequence Number according to the value
provided in the ART option. The router next checks if one of its addresses is included in the ART
option. If it is included, this router is the OrigNode of the route discovery. Otherwise, it is an
intermediate router.

6.4.3.  Step 3: Build Route to TargNode

MUST

 build a downward route

If the H bit is set to 1, then the router (OrigNode or intermediate)
entry towards TargNode that includes at least the following items: OrigNode Address,
RPLInstanceID, TargNode Address as destination, Next Hop, Lifetime, and Sequence Number.
For a symmetric route, the Next Hop in the route entry is the router from which the RREP-DIO is
received. For an asymmetric route, the Next Hop is the preferred parent in the DODAG of RREP-
Instance. The RPLInstanceID in the route entry
subtracting the Delta field value from the value of the RPLInstanceID). The source address is
learned from the ART option, and the destination address is learned from the DODAGID. The
lifetime is set according to DODAG configuration (i.e., not the L field) and can be extended when
the route is actually used. The Sequence Number represents the freshness of the route entry and

 be the RREQ-InstanceID (i.e., after

MUST

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9854

AODV-RPL

October 2025

is copied from the Dest SeqNo field of the ART option of the RREP-DIO. A route entry with the
same source and destination address and the same RPLInstanceID, but a stale Sequence Number,
MUST

 be deleted.

6.4.4.  Step 4: RREP Propagation

If the receiver is the OrigNode, it can start transmitting the application data to TargNode along
the path as provided in RREP-Instance, and processing for the RREP-DIO is complete. Otherwise,
the RREP will be propagated towards OrigNode. If H=0, the intermediate router
the address of the interface receiving the RREP-DIO into the Address Vector. If H=1, according to
the previous step, the intermediate router has set up a route entry for TargNode. If the
intermediate router has a route to OrigNode, it uses that route to unicast the RREP-DIO to
OrigNode. Otherwise, in the case of a symmetric route, the RREP-DIO message is unicast to the
Next Hop according to the Address Vector in the RREP-DIO (H=0) or the local route entry (H=1).
Otherwise, in the case of an asymmetric route, the intermediate router transmits the RREP-DIO
to multicast group all-AODV-RPL-nodes. The RPLInstanceID in the transmitted RREP-DIO is the
same as the value in the received RREP-DIO.

 include

MUST

7.  Gratuitous RREP

In some cases, an intermediate router that receives an RREQ-DIO message
Gratuitous RREP-DIO (G-RREP-DIO) message back to OrigNode before continuing the
transmission of the RREQ-DIO towards TargNode. The Gratuitous RREP (G-RREP) allows the
OrigNode to start transmitting data to TargNode sooner. The G bit of the RREP option is provided
to distinguish the G-RREP-DIO (G=1) sent by the intermediate router from the RREP-DIO sent by
TargNode (G=0).

 unicast a

MAY

MAY

 be sent out when the intermediate router receives an RREQ-DIO for a

The G-RREP-DIO
TargNode and the router has a pair of downward and upward routes to the TargNode that also
satisfy the OF and for which the Destination Sequence Number is at least as large as the
Sequence Number in the RREQ-DIO message. After unicasting the G-RREP to the OrigNode, the
intermediate router then unicasts the RREQ towards TargNode, so that TargNode will have the
advertised route towards OrigNode along with the RREQ-InstanceID for the RREQ-Instance. An
upstream intermediate router that receives such a G-RREP
send it further upstream towards OrigNode.

 also generate a G-RREP and

MUST

In case of source routing, the intermediate router
OrigNode and itself in the G-RREP. It also includes the Address Vector in the unicast RREQ-DIO
towards TargNode. Upon reception of the unicast RREQ-DIO, the TargNode will have a route
Address Vector from itself to the OrigNode. Then, the router
from the TargNode to the router itself in the G-RREP-DIO to be transmitted.

 include the Address Vector between the

 include the Address Vector

MUST

MUST

For establishing hop-by-hop routes, the intermediate router
DIO to the Next Hop on the route. The Next Hop router along the route
entries with the related RPLInstanceID and DODAGID in the downward direction. This process

 unicast the received RREQ-
 build new route

MUST

MUST

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9854

AODV-RPL

October 2025

repeats at each node until the RREQ-DIO arrives at the TargNode. Then, the TargNode and each
router along the path towards OrigNode
OrigNode as specified in Section 6.3.

 unicast the RREP-DIO hop-by-hop towards

MUST

8.  Operation of Trickle Timer

RREQ-Instance/RREP-Instance multicast uses Trickle timer operations
DIO and RREP-DIO transmissions. The Trickle control of these DIO transmissions follows the
procedures described in
 entitled "DIO Transmission". If the route is
symmetric, the RREP-DIO does not need the Trickle timer mechanism.

Section 8.3 of [RFC6550]

[RFC6206]

 to control RREQ-

9.  IANA Considerations

AODV-RPL uses the "P2P Route Discovery Mode of Operation" (MOP == 4), with new options as
specified in this document. This document has been added as an additional reference for "P2P
Route Discovery Mode of Operation" in the "Mode of Operation" registry within the "Routing
Protocol for Low Power and Lossy Networks (RPL)" registry group.

IANA has assigned the three new AODV-RPL options described in Table 1 in the "RPL Control
Message Options" registry within the "Routing Protocol for Low Power and Lossy Networks
(RPL)" registry group.

Value

Meaning

Reference

0x0B

RREQ

RFC 9854

0x0C

RREP

RFC 9854

0x0D

ART

RFC 9854

Table 1: AODV-RPL Options

IANA has allocated the permanent multicast address with link-local scope in Table 2 for nodes
implementing this specification. This allocation has been made in the "Local Network Control
Block (224.0.0.0 - 224.0.0.255 (224.0.0/24))" registry within the "IPv4 Multicast Address Space
Registry" registry group.

Address(es) Description

References

224.0.0.69

all-AODV-RPL-nodes

RFC 9854

Table 2: Permanent Multicast Address with Link-Local
Scope

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9854

AODV-RPL

October 2025

10.  Security Considerations

The security considerations for the operation of AODV-RPL are similar to those for the operation
of RPL (as described in Section 19 of the RPL specification
[RFC6550]
data confidentiality, authentication, replay protection, and delay protection services. Additional
analysis for the security threats to RPL can be found in

). Sections 6.1 and 10 of
 describe RPL's optional security framework, which AODV-RPL relies on to provide

[RFC7416]
.

[RFC6550]

A router can join a temporary DAG created for a secure AODV-RPL route discovery only if it can
support the security configuration in use (see
), which also specifies the
key in use. It does not matter whether the key is preinstalled or dynamically acquired. The router
must have the key in use before it can join the DAG being created for secure route discovery.

Section 6.1 of [RFC6550]

If a rogue router knows the key for the security configuration in use, it can join the secure AODV-
RPL route discovery and cause various types of damage. Such a rogue router could advertise
false information in its DIOs in order to include itself in the discovered route(s). It could
generate bogus RREQ-DIO and RREP-DIO messages carrying bad routes or maliciously modify
genuine RREP-DIO messages it receives. A rogue router acting as the OrigNode could launch
denial-of-service attacks against the LLN deployment by initiating fake AODV-RPL route
discoveries. When rogue routers might be present, RPL's preinstalled mode of operation, where
the key to use for route discovery is preinstalled,

 be used.

SHOULD

When an RREQ-DIO message uses the source routing option by setting the H bit to 0, a rogue
router may populate the Address Vector field with a set of addresses that may result in the RREP-
DIO traveling in a routing loop.

If a rogue router is able to forge a G-RREP, it could mount denial-of-service attacks.

11.  References

11.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC6206]

[RFC6550]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Levis, P. Clausen, T. Hui, J. Gnawali, O.
,
,
6206 DOI 10.17487/RFC6206
,
rfc6206>

, March 2011,

.

, and

,

J. Ko "The Trickle Algorithm" RFC

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

Winter, T., Ed. Thubert, P., Ed. Brandt, A. Hui, J. Kelsey, R. Levis, P. Pister, K.
,
Struik, R. Vasseur, JP.
R. Alexander "RPL: IPv6 Routing Protocol for Low-
,
Power and Lossy Networks" RFC 6550 DOI 10.17487/RFC6550
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6550>

, March 2012,

, and

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

.

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9854

AODV-RPL

October 2025

[RFC6551]

[RFC8174]

,

Vasseur, JP., Ed. Kim, M., Ed. Pister, K. Dejean, N.
Metrics Used for Path Calculation in Low-Power and Lossy Networks" RFC 6551
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC6551

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6551>

D. Barthel "Routing
,

, March 2012,

, and

,

,

,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

11.2.  Informative References

[aodv-tot]

[co-ioam]

[contiki]

[Contiki-ng]

[cooja]

 and

E.M. Royer "Ad-hoc On-demand Distance Vector Routing"

Perkins, C.E.
Proceedings WMCSA'99. Second IEEE Workshop on Mobile Computing Systems
and Applications, pp. 90-100 DOI 10.1109/MCSA.1999.749281
<https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/749281>

, February 1999,

,

,

,

.

,

, and

M. Hegde "Co-iOAM: In-situ Telemetry

Ballamajalu, R. Anand, S.V.R.
Metadata Transport for Resource Constrained Networks within IETF Standards
Framework" 2018 10th International Conference on Communication Systems &
Networks (COMSNETS), pp. 573-576 DOI 10.1109/COMSNETS.2018.8328276
<https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8328276>
January 2018,

,

,

,

,

.

"The Contiki Open Source OS for the Internet of Things (Contiki Version 2.7)"
commit 7635906

<https://github.com/contiki-os/contiki>

, November 2013,

.

,

"Contiki-NG: The OS for Next Generation IoT Devices (Contiki-NG Version 4.6)"
commit 3b0bc6a
.

<https://github.com/contiki-ng/contiki-ng>

, December 2020,

,

"Cooja Simulator for Wireless Sensor Networks (Contiki/Cooja Version 2.7)"
commit 7635906
master/tools/cooja>

,
<https://github.com/contiki-os/contiki/tree/

, November 2013,

.

[empirical-study]

Misra, P. Ahmed, N.
,

, and

S. Jha "An empirical study of asymmetry in low-

,

power wireless links" IEEE Communications Magazine, vol. 50, no. 7, pp.
,
137-146 DOI 10.1109/MCOM.2012.6231290
ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/6231290>

, July 2012,

<https://

,

.

[Link_Asymmetry]

Sang, L. Arora, A.
,

, and

H. Zhang "On Link Asymmetry and One-way

,

Estimation in Wireless Sensor Networks" ACM Transactions on Sensor
Networks, vol. 6, no. 2, pp. 1-25 DOI 10.1145/1689239.1689242
,
<https://doi.org/10.1145/1689239.1689242>

.

,

, March 2010,

[low-power-wireless]

Srinivasan, K. Dutta, P. Tavakoli, A.

,

,

, and

P. Levis "An empirical study of

,

low-power wireless" ACM Transactions on Sensor Networks, vol. 6, no. 2, pp.
1-49 DOI 10.1145/1689239.1689246
10.1145/1689239.1689246>

<https://doi.org/

, March 2010,

,

,

.

[RFC3561]

,

Perkins, C. Belding-Royer, E.
(AODV) Routing" RFC 3561 DOI 10.17487/RFC3561
,
editor.org/info/rfc3561>
.

, and

,

,

S. Das "Ad hoc On-Demand Distance Vector
, July 2003,

<https://www.rfc-

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9854

AODV-RPL

October 2025

[RFC6687]

[RFC6997]

[RFC6998]

[RFC7276]

[RFC7416]

[RFC7548]

[RFC9010]

[RFC9030]

,

Tripathi, J., Ed. de Oliveira, J., Ed.
of the Routing Protocol for Low-Power and Lossy Networks (RPL)" RFC 6687
DOI 10.17487/RFC6687

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6687>

JP. Vasseur, Ed. "Performance Evaluation

, October 2012,

, and

,

,

,

.

,

,

J. Martocci "Reactive
,
Goyal, M., Ed. Baccelli, E. Philipp, M. Brandt, A.
,
Discovery of Point-to-Point Routes in Low-Power and Lossy Networks" RFC
6997 DOI 10.17487/RFC6997
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
,
rfc6997>

, August 2013,

, and

,

.

,

,

Goyal, M., Ed. Baccelli, E. Brandt, A.
the Routing Metrics along a Point-to-Point Route in a Low-Power and Lossy
Network" RFC 6998 DOI 10.17487/RFC6998
<https://www.rfc-
editor.org/info/rfc6998>

J. Martocci "A Mechanism to Measure

, August 2013,

, and

,

,

,

.

,

Mizrahi, T. Sprecher, N. Bellagamba, E.
Operations, Administration, and Maintenance (OAM) Tools" RFC 7276 DOI
10.17487/RFC7276

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7276>

Y. Weingarten "An Overview of
,
,

, June 2014,

, and

,

.

,

,

Tsao, T. Alexander, R. Dohler, M. Daza, V. Lozano, A.
M. Richardson, Ed.
"A Security Threat Analysis for the Routing Protocol for Low-Power and Lossy
Networks (RPLs)" RFC 7416 DOI 10.17487/RFC7416
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7416>

, January 2015,

<https://

, and

,

,

,

,

.

,

,

Ersue, M., Ed. Romascanu, D. Schoenwaelder, J.
of Networks with Constrained Devices: Use Cases" RFC 7548 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7548

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7548>

A. Sehgal "Management

, and
,

, May 2015,

,

,

.

 and

Thubert, P., Ed.
,
Power and Lossy Networks) Leaves" RFC 9010 DOI 10.17487/RFC9010
2021,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9010>
.

M. Richardson "Routing for RPL (Routing Protocol for Low-

, April

,

,

Thubert, P., Ed. "An Architecture for IPv6 over the Time-Slotted Channel
Hopping Mode of IEEE 802.15.4 (6TiSCH)" RFC 9030 DOI 10.17487/RFC9030
2021,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9030>

,

,

.

, May

Appendix A.  Example: Using ETX/RSSI Values to Determine
Value of S Bit

The combination of the downstream Received Signal Strength Indicator (RSSI) and the upstream
Expected Transmission Count (ETX) has been tested to determine whether a link is symmetric or
asymmetric at intermediate routers. We present two methods to obtain an ETX value from RSSI
measurement.

Method 1:

In the first method, we constructed a table measuring RSSI versus ETX using the

Cooja simulation
running the 6LoWPAN/RPL protocol stack for the simulations. For approximating the number
of packet drops based on the RSSI values, we implemented simple logic that drops

 setup in the Contiki OS environment

. We used Contiki-2.7

[contiki]

[cooja]

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9854

AODV-RPL

October 2025

transmitted packets with certain predefined ratios before handing over the packets to the
receiver. The packet drop ratio is implemented as a table lookup of RSSI ranges mapping to
different packet drop ratios with lower RSSI ranges resulting in higher values. While this
table has been defined for the purpose of capturing the overall link behavior, in general, it is
highly recommended to conduct physical radio measurement experiments. By keeping the
receiving node at different distances, we let the packets experience different packet drops as
per the described method. The ETX value computation is done by another module that is part
of RPL OF implementation. Since the ETX value is reflective of the extent of packet drops, it
allowed us to prepare a useful table correlating ETX and RSSI values (see Table 3). ETX and
RSSI values obtained in this way may be used as explained below:

Source -------> NodeA -------> NodeB -----> Destination

Figure 6: Communication Link from Source to Destination

RSSI at NodeA for NodeB

Expected ETX at NodeA for NodeB->NodeA

> -60

-70 to -60

-80 to -70

-90 to -80

-100 to -90

150

192

226

662

3840

Table 3: Selection of S Bit Based on Expected ETX Value

Method 2:

One could also make use of the function guess_etx_from_rssi() defined in the

6LoWPAN/RPL protocol stack of Contiki-ng OS
function outputs an ETX value ranging between 128 and 3840 for -60 <= rssi <= -89. The
function description is beyond the scope of this document.

 to obtain RSSI-ETX mapping. This

[Contiki-ng]

We tested the operations in this specification by making the following experiment, using the
above parameters. In our experiment, a communication link is considered as symmetric if the
ETX value of NodeA->NodeB and NodeB->NodeA (see Figure 6) are within, say, a 1:3 ratio. This
ratio should be understood as determining the link's symmetric/asymmetric nature. NodeA can
typically know the ETX value in the direction of NodeA->NodeB, but it has no direct way of
knowing the value of ETX from NodeB->NodeA. Using physical testbed experiments and realistic
wireless channel propagation models, one can determine a relationship between RSSI and ETX
representable as an expression or a mapping table. Such a relationship, in turn, can be used to
estimate the ETX value at NodeA for link NodeB->NodeA from the received RSSI from NodeB.
Whenever NodeA determines that the link towards the NodeB is bidirectional asymmetric, then
the S bit is set to 0. Afterwards, the link from NodeA to Destination remains designated as
asymmetric, and the S bit remains set to 0.

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9854

AODV-RPL

October 2025

Determination of asymmetry versus bidirectionality remains a topic of lively discussion in the
IETF.

Appendix B.  Some Example AODV-RPL Message Flows

This appendix provides some example message flows showing RREQ and RREP establishing
symmetric and asymmetric routes. Also, examples for the use of RREP_WAIT and G-RREP are
included. In the examples, router (O) is to be understood as performing the role of OrigNode.
Router (T) is to be understood as performing the role of TargNode. Routers (R) are intermediate
routers that are performing AODV-RPL functions in order to discover one or more suitable
routes between (O) and (T).

B.1.  Example Control Message Flows in Symmetric and Asymmetric
Networks

In the following diagram, RREQ messages are multicast from router (O) in order to discover
routes to and from router (T). The RREQ control messages flow outward from (O). Each router
along the way establishes a single RREQ-Instance identified by RREQ-InstanceID even if multiple
RREQs are received with the same RREQ-InstanceID. In the top half of the diagram, the routers
are able to offer a symmetric route at each hop of the path from (O) to (T). When (T) receives an
RREQ, it is then able to transmit data packets to (O). Router (T) then prepares to send an RREP
along the symmetric path that would enable router (O) to send packets to router (T).

             (R) ---RREQ(S=1)--->(R) ---RREQ(S=1)--->(R)
              ^                                       |
              |                                       |
         RREQ(S=1)                                RREQ(S=1)
              |                                       |
              |                                       v
             (O) --------->(R) --------->(R)-------->(T)
             / \    RREQ         RREQ         RREQ    ^
             |  \    (S=1)      (S=0)         (S=0)   |
             |   \                                   /
        RREQ |    \ RREQ (S=1)                    RREQ (S=0)
       (S=0) |     \                               /
             v      \              RREQ (S=0)     /
            (R) ---->(R)------>(R)----.....--->(R)

Figure 7: AODV-RPL RREQ Message Flow Example When Symmetric Path Available

In the following diagram, which results from the above RREQ message transmission, a
symmetric route is available from (T) to router (O) via the routers in the top half of the diagram.
RREP messages are sent via unicast along the symmetric route. Since the RREP message is
transmitted via unicast, no RREP messages are sent by router (T) to the routers in the bottom
half of the diagram.

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9854

AODV-RPL

October 2025

             (R)<------RREP----- (R)<------RREP----- (R)
              |                                       ^
              |                                       |
             RREP                                    RREP
              |                                       |
              v                                       |
             (O) ----------(R) ----------(R) --------(T)
             / \                                      |
             |  \                                     |
             |   \     (no RREP messages sent)       /
             |    \                                 /
             |     \                               /
             |      \                             /
            (R) -----(R)-------(R)----.....----(R)

Figure 8: AODV-RPL RREP Message Flow Example When Symmetric Path Available

In the following diagram, RREQ messages are multicast from router (O) in order to discover
routes to and from router (T) as before. As shown, no symmetric route is available from (O) to
(T).

             (R) ---RREQ(S=0)--->(R) ---RREQ(S=0)--->(R)
              ^                                       |
              |                                       |
          RREQ(S=1)                                RREQ(S=0)
              |                                       |
              |                                       v
             (O) --------->(R) --------->(R)-------->(T)
             ^ \    RREQ         RREQ      RREQ      |  \
             |  \    (S=1)        (S=0)       (S=0)  |   |
             |   \                                   /   |
             |  RREQ (S=1)              RREQ (S=0)  /   (R)
             |     \                               /     |
             |      \               RREQ (S=0)    /     /
            (R) ---->(R)------>(R)----.....----->(R)---

Figure 9: AODV-RPL RREQ Message Flow When Symmetric Path Unavailable

Upon receiving the RREQ in Figure 9, router (T) then prepares to send an RREP that would
enable router (O) to send packets to router (T). In Figure 9, since no symmetric route is available
from (T) to router (O), RREP messages are sent via multicast to all neighboring routers.

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9854

AODV-RPL

October 2025

             (R)<------RREP----- (R)<------RREP----- (R)
              |                                       |
              |                                       |
             RREP                                    RREP
              |                                       |
              |                                       |
              v                                       v
             (O)<--------- (R)<--------- (R)<------- (T)
             ^ \    RREP         RREP        RREP    |  \
             |  \                                    |   |RREP
             |   \                                   /   |
       RREP  |    \ RREP                  RREP      /   (R)
             |     \                               /     |
             |      \                             /     /
           (R)<----- (R)<----- (R)<---.....---- (R)< - RREP
                RREP       RREP         RREP

Figure 10: AODV-RPL RREQ and RREP-Instances for Asymmetric Links

B.2.  Example RREP_WAIT Handling

In Figure 11, the first RREQ arrives at (T). This triggers TargNode to start the RREP_WAIT_TIME
timer.

        (O) --------->(R) --------->(R)-------->(T)
                RREQ         RREQ         RREQ
               (S=1)        (S=0)        (S=0)

Figure 11: TargNode Starts RREP_WAIT

In Figure 12, another RREQ arrives before the RREP_WAIT_TIME timer is expired. It could be
preferable compared the previously received RREP that caused the RREP_WAIT_TIME timer to
be set.

        (O)                                     (T)
        / \                                      ^
        |  \                                     |
        |   \                                   /
   RREQ |    \ RREQ (S=1)                    RREQ (S=0)
  (S=0) |     \                               /
        v      \              RREQ (S=0)     /
       (R) ---->(R)------>(R)----.....--->(R)

Figure 12: Waiting TargNode Receives Preferable RREQ

In Figure 13, the RREP_WAIT_TIME timer expires. TargNode selects the path with S=1.

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 9854

AODV-RPL

October 2025

        (R) ---RREQ(S=1)--->(R) ---RREQ(S=1)--->(R)
         ^                                       |
         |                                       |
    RREQ(S=1)                                RREQ(S=1)
         |                                       |
         |                                       v
        (O)                                     (T)

Figure 13: RREP_WAIT Expires at TargNode

B.3.  Example G-RREP Handling

In Figure 14, R* has upward and downward routes to TargNode (T) that satisfy the OF of the RPL
Instance originated by OrigNode (O), and the Destination Sequence Number is at least as large as
the Sequence Number in the RREQ message.

        (R) ---RREQ(S=1)--->(R) ---RREQ(S=0)--->(R)
         ^                                       |
         |                                       |
    RREQ(S=1)                                RREQ(S=0)
         |                                       |
         |                                       v
        (O) --------->(R) --------->(R)-------->(T)
        / \    RREQ         RREQ         RREQ    ^
        |  \    (S=1)      (S=0)         (S=0)   |
        |   \                                   /
   RREQ |    \ RREQ (S=1)                      /
  (S=0) |     \                               /
        v      \                             v
       (R) ---->(R*)<------>(R)<----....--->(R)

Figure 14: RREP Triggers G-RREP at Intermediate Node

In Figure 15, R* transmits the G-RREP-DIO back to OrigNode (O) and forwards the incoming
RREQ towards (T).

        (O)                                     (T)
          \                                      ^
           \                                     |
            \                            (RREQ) /
             \ G-RREP-DIO                      /
              \                               /
               \   (RREQ)       (RREQ)       /
               (R*)------>(R)----....--->(R)

Figure 15: Intermediate Node Initiates G-RREP

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 9854

AODV-RPL

October 2025

Acknowledgements

The authors thank
valuable input. The authors specially thank
Contiki and conducting extensive simulation studies.

Pascal Thubert Rahul Jadhav
,

, and
Lavanya H.M.

Lijo Thomas

 for their support and

 for implementing AODV-RPL in

The authors would like to acknowledge the reviews, feedback, and comments from the following
people, in alphabetical order:
,
Kline Murray Kucherawy Warren Kumari Francesca Palombini Alvaro Retana Ines Robles
,
John Scudder Meral Shirazipour Peter Van der Stok Éric Vyncke
, and
,

Roman Danyliw Lars Eggert Benjamin Kaduk Tero Kivinen Erik

Robert Wilton
.

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Contributors

Abdur Rashid Sangi
Wenzhou-Kean University
88 Daxue Rd, Ouhai
Wenzhou
Zhejiang Province, 325060
Kean University
1000 Morris Avenue
Union, New Jersey 07083
United States of America
China
Email:

sangi_bahrian@yahoo.com

Malati Hegde
Indian Institute of Science
Bangalore 560012
India
Email:

malati@iisc.ac.in

Mingui Zhang
Huawei Technologies
No. 156 Beiqing Rd.
Haidian District
Beijing
100095
China
Email:

zhangmingui@huawei.com

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 9854

AODV-RPL

October 2025

Authors' Addresses

Charles E. Perkins
Blue Meadow Networks
Saratoga CA 95070
,
United States of America
Email:

charliep@lupinlodge.com

S.V.R. Anand
Indian Institute of Science
Bangalore 560012
India
Email:

anandsvr@iisc.ac.in

Satish Anamalamudi
SRM University-AP
Amaravati Campus
Amaravati, Andhra Pradesh 522 502
India
Email:

satishnaidu80@gmail.com

Bing Liu
Huawei Technologies
No. 156 Beiqing Rd.
Haidian District
Beijing
100095
China
Email:

remy.liubing@huawei.com

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 31

