Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9103
1995, 5936, 7766
Standards Track
August 2021
2070-1721
W. Toorop
NLnet Labs

S. Dickinson
Sinodun IT

S. Sahib
Brave Software

P. Aras
Salesforce

A. Mankin
Salesforce

RFC 9103
DNS Zone Transfer over TLS

Abstract

DNS zone transfers are transmitted in cleartext, which gives attackers the opportunity to collect
the content of a zone by eavesdropping on network connections. The DNS Transaction Signature
(TSIG) mechanism is speciﬁed to restrict direct zone transfer to authorized clients only, but it
does not add conﬁdentiality. This document speciﬁes the use of TLS, rather than cleartext, to
prevent zone content collection via passive monitoring of zone transfers: XFR over TLS (XoT).
Additionally, this speciﬁcation updates RFC 1995 and RFC 5936 with respect to eﬃcient use of TCP
connections and RFC 7766 with respect to the recommended number of connections between a
client and server for each transport.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9103

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Toorop, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9103

XFR over TLS

August 2021

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  Threat Model

4.  Design Considerations for XoT

5.  Connection and Data Flows in Existing XFR Mechanisms

5.1.  AXFR Mechanism

5.2.  IXFR Mechanism

5.3.  Data Leakage of NOTIFY and SOA Message Exchanges

5.3.1.  NOTIFY

5.3.2.  SOA

6.  Updates to Existing Speciﬁcations

6.1.  Update to RFC 1995 for IXFR over TCP

6.2.  Update to RFC 5936 for AXFR over TCP

6.3.  Updates to RFCs 1995 and 5936 for XFR over TCP

6.3.1.  Connection Reuse

6.3.2.  AXFRs and IXFRs on the Same Connection

6.3.3.  XFR Limits

6.3.4.  The edns-tcp-keepalive EDNS(0) Option

6.3.5.  Backwards Compatibility

6.4.  Update to RFC 7766

7.  XoT Speciﬁcation

7.1.  Connection Establishment

7.2.  TLS Versions

7.3.  Port Selection

7.4.  High-Level XoT Descriptions

7.5.  XoT Transfers

Toorop, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9103

XFR over TLS

August 2021

7.6.  XoT Connections

7.7.  XoT vs. ADoT

7.8.  Response RCODES

7.9.  AXoT Speciﬁcs

7.9.1.  Padding AXoT Responses

7.10. IXoT Speciﬁcs

7.10.1.  Condensation of Responses

7.10.2.  Fallback to AXFR

7.10.3.  Padding of IXoT Responses

7.11. Name Compression and Maximum Payload Sizes

8.  Multi-primary Conﬁgurations

9.  Authentication Mechanisms

9.1.  TSIG

9.2.  SIG(0)

9.3.  TLS

9.3.1.  Opportunistic TLS

9.3.2.  Strict TLS

9.3.3.  Mutual TLS

9.4.  IP-Based ACL on the Primary

9.5.  ZONEMD

10. XoT Authentication

11. Policies for Both AXoT and IXoT

12. Implementation Considerations

13. Operational Considerations

14. IANA Considerations

15. Security Considerations

16. References

16.1.  Normative References

16.2.  Informative References

Toorop, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9103

XFR over TLS

August 2021

Appendix A.  XoT Server Connection Handling

A.1.  Listening Only on a Speciﬁc IP Address for TLS

A.2.  Client-Speciﬁc TLS Acceptance

A.3.  SNI-Based TLS Acceptance

A.4.  Transport-Speciﬁc Response Policies

A.4.1.  SNI-Based Response Policies

Acknowledgements

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

DNS has a number of privacy vulnerabilities, as discussed in detail in
between stub resolvers and recursive resolvers has received the most attention to date, with
Standards Track documents for both DNS over TLS (DoT)
 and a proposal for DNS over QUIC
[RFC8484]
DNS privacy requirements for exchanges between recursive resolvers and authoritative servers
and some suggestions for how signaling of DoT support by authoritative name servers might
work. However, there is currently no RFC that speciﬁcally deﬁnes recursive-to-authoritative DNS
over TLS (ADoT).

 and DNS over HTTPS (DoH)

. There is ongoing work on

[DPRIVE-DNSOQUIC]

. Query privacy

[RFC9076]

[RFC7858]

[RFC9076]
need protection, but, on zone transfer

[RFC1995] [RFC5936]

, it says only:

 establishes that a stub resolver's DNS query transactions are not public and that they

Privacy risks for the holder of a zone (the risk that someone gets the data) are discussed
in

[RFC5936]

[RFC5155]

 and

.

In what way is exposing the full contents of a zone a privacy risk? The contents of the zone could
include information such as names of persons used in names of hosts. Best practice is not to use
personal information for domain names, but many such domain names exist. The contents of the
zone could also include references to locations that allow inference about location information
of the individuals associated with the zone's organization. It could also include references to
other organizations. Examples of this could be:

•

Person-laptop.example.org

•

MX-for-Location.example.org

•

Service-tenant-from-another-org.example.org

Toorop, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9103

XFR over TLS

August 2021

Additionally, the full zone contents expose all the IP addresses of endpoints held in the DNS
records, which can make reconnaissance and attack targeting easier, particularly for IPv6
addresses or private networks. There may also be regulatory, policy, or other reasons why the
zone contents in full must be treated as private.

Neither of the RFCs mentioned in
through eavesdropping on network connections, only via enumeration or unauthorized transfer,
as described in the following paragraphs.

 contemplate the risk that someone gets the data

[RFC9076]

 speciﬁes NSEC3, a mechanism to provide measures against zone enumeration for

Zone enumeration is trivially possible for DNSSEC zones that use NSEC, i.e., queries for the
authenticated denial-of-existence records allow a client to walk through the entire zone contents.
[RFC5155]
DNSSEC-signed zones (a goal was to make it as hard to enumerate a DNSSEC-signed zone as an
unsigned zone). Whilst this is widely used, it has been demonstrated that zone walking is
possible for precomputed NSEC3 using attacks, such as those described in
[NSEC3-attacks]
prompted further work on an alternative mechanism for DNSSEC-authenticated denial of
existence (NSEC5

); however, questions remain over the practicality of this mechanism.

[NSEC5]

. This

 does not address data obtained outside zone enumeration (nor does

[RFC5155]
Preventing eavesdropping of zone transfers (as described in this document) is orthogonal to
preventing zone enumeration, though they aim to protect the same information.

[NSEC5]

).

 speciﬁes using TSIG

[RFC5936]
for data integrity but does not express any need for conﬁdentiality, and TSIG does not oﬀer
encryption.

 for authorization of the clients of a zone transfer and

[RFC8945]

 discusses restricting access for zone transfers using Access Control Lists (ACLs) and TSIG

Section 8 of the NIST document "Secure Domain Name System (DNS) Deployment Guide"
GUIDE]
in more detail. It also discusses the possibility that speciﬁc deployments might choose to use a
lower-level network layer to protect zone transfers, e.g., IPsec.

[NIST-

It is noted that in all the common open-source implementations such ACLs are applied on a per-
query basis (at the time of writing). Since requests typically occur on TCP connections,
authoritative servers must therefore accept any TCP connection and then handle the
authentication of each zone transfer (XFR) request individually.

Because both AXFR (authoritative transfer) and IXFR (incremental zone transfer) are typically
carried out over TCP from authoritative DNS protocol implementations, encrypting zone
transfers using TLS
forward. This document speciﬁes how to use TLS (1.3 or later) as a transport to prevent zone
collection from zone transfers.

 -- seems like a simple step

 -- based closely on DoT

[RFC8499]

[RFC7858]

This document also updates the previous speciﬁcations for zone transfers to clarify and extend
them, mainly with respect to TCP usage:

• [RFC1995]

 (IXFR) and
[RFC5936]
eﬃcient use of TCP connections.

 (AXFR) are both updated to add further speciﬁcation on

Toorop, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9103

XFR over TLS

August 2021

• Section 6.2.2 of [RFC7766]

 ("DNS Transport over TCP - Implementation Requirements") is

updated with a new recommendation about the number of connections between a client and
server for each transport.

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

Privacy terminology is as described in

Section 3 of [RFC6973]

.

DNS terminology is as described in
. Note that, as in
'secondary' are used for two servers engaged in zone transfers.

[RFC8499]

[RFC8499]

, the terms 'primary' and

DoT:

DNS over TLS, as speciﬁed in

[RFC7858]

XFR over TCP:

Used to mean both IXFR over TCP

[RFC1995]

 and AXFR over TCP

[RFC5936]

XoT:

XFR-over-TLS mechanisms, as speciﬁed in this document, which apply to both AXFR over
TLS and IXFR over TLS (XoT is pronounced 'zot' since X here stands for 'zone transfer')

AXoT:

AXFR over TLS

IXoT:

IXFR over TLS

3.  Threat Model

The threat model considered here is one where the current contents and size of the zone are
considered sensitive and should be protected during transfer.

The threat model does not, however, consider the existence of a zone, the act of zone transfer
between two entities, nor the identities of the name servers hosting a zone (including both those
acting as hidden primaries/secondaries or directly serving the zone) as sensitive information.
The proposed mechanism does not attempt to obscure such information. The reasons for this
include:

•

much of this information can be obtained by various methods, including active scanning of
the DNS, and

•

an attacker who can monitor network traﬃc can rather easily infer relations between name
servers simply from traﬃc patterns, even when some or all of the traﬃc is encrypted (in
terms of current deployments).

The model does not consider attacks on the mechanisms that trigger a zone transfer, e.g., NOTIFY
messages.

Toorop, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9103

XFR over TLS

August 2021

It is noted that simply using XoT will indicate a desire by the zone owner that the contents of the
zone remain conﬁdential and so could be subject to blocking (e.g., via blocking of port 853) if an
attacker had such capabilities. However, this threat is likely true of any such mechanism that
attempts to encrypt data passed between name servers, e.g., IPsec.

4.  Design Considerations for XoT

The following principles were considered in the design for XoT:

Conﬁdentiality:

Clearly using an encrypted transport for zone transfers will defeat zone content

leakage that can occur via passive surveillance.

Authentication:

Use of single or mutual TLS (mTLS) authentication (in combination with ACLs)

can complement and potentially be an alternative to TSIG.

Performance:
•

Existing AXFR and IXFR mechanisms have the burden of backwards compatibility with
older implementations based on the original speciﬁcations in
.
[RFC1035]
For example, some older AXFR servers don't support using a TCP connection for multiple
AXFR sessions or XFRs of diﬀerent zones because they have not been updated to follow
the guidance in
. Any implementation of XoT would obviously be required to
implement optimized and interoperable transfers, as described in
of multiple zones over one connection.

[RFC5936]

[RFC5936]

[RFC1034]

 and

, e.g., transfer

•

Current usage of TCP for IXFR is suboptimal in some cases, i.e., connections are frequently
closed after a single IXFR.

5.  Connection and Data Flows in Existing XFR Mechanisms

The original speciﬁcation for zone transfers in
mechanism: a secondary performed a periodic query for the SOA (start of zone authority) record
(based on the refresh timer) to determine if an AXFR was required.

 was based on a polling

[RFC1035]

[RFC1034]

 and

 and

[RFC1996]

[RFC1995]
for prompt propagation of zone updates. This has largely replaced AXFR where possible,
particularly for dynamically updated zones.

 introduced the concepts of IXFR and NOTIFY, respectively, to provide

[RFC5936]
interoperability.

 subsequently redeﬁned the speciﬁcation of AXFR to improve performance and

In this document, the term 'XFR mechanism' is used to describe the entire set of message
exchanges between a secondary and a primary that concludes with a successful AXFR or IXFR
request/response. This set may or may not include:

•

NOTIFY messages

•

SOA queries

•

Fallback from IXFR to AXFR

Toorop, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9103

XFR over TLS

August 2021

•

Fallback from IXFR over UDP to IXFR over TCP

The term is used to encompass the range of permutations that are possible and is useful to
distinguish the 'XFR mechanism' from a single XFR request/response exchange.

5.1.  AXFR Mechanism

The ﬁgure below provides an outline of an AXFR mechanism including NOTIFYs.

   Secondary                            Primary

       |              NOTIFY               |
       | <-------------------------------- |  UDP
       | --------------------------------> |
       |          NOTIFY Response          |
       |                                   |
       |                                   |
       |            SOA Request            |
       | --------------------------------> |  UDP (or part of
       | <-------------------------------- |  a TCP session)
       |           SOA Response            |
       |                                   |
       |                                   |
       |                                   |
       |            AXFR Request           | ---
       | --------------------------------> |   |
       | <-------------------------------- |   |
       |          AXFR Response 1          |   |
       |             (Zone data)           |   |
       |                                   |   |
       | <-------------------------------- |   | TCP
       |          AXFR Response 2          |   | Session
       |             (Zone data)           |   |
       |                                   |   |
       | <-------------------------------- |   |
       |          AXFR Response 3          |   |
       |             (Zone data)           | ---
       |                                   |

Figure 1: AXFR Mechanism

1.

An AXFR is often (but not always) preceded by a NOTIFY (over UDP) from the primary to the
secondary. A secondary may also initiate an AXFR based on a refresh timer or scheduled/
triggered zone maintenance.

2.

The secondary will normally (but not always) make an SOA query to the primary to obtain
the serial number of the zone held by the primary.

3.

), the secondary makes an AXFR request (over TCP) to the primary, after which the

If the primary serial is higher than the secondary's serial (using Serial Number Arithmetic
[RFC1982]
AXFR data ﬂows in one or more AXFR responses on the TCP connection.
this speciﬁc step as an 'AXFR session', i.e., as an AXFR query message and the sequence of
AXFR response messages returned for it.

[RFC5936]

 deﬁnes

Toorop, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9103

XFR over TLS

August 2021

[RFC5936]
and

 re-speciﬁed AXFR, providing additional guidance beyond that provided in

[RFC1034]

[RFC1035]

 and importantly speciﬁed that AXFR must use TCP as the transport protocol.

Additionally, Sections 4.1, 4.1.1, and 4.1.2 of
 provide improved guidance for AXFR
clients and servers with regard to reuse of TCP connections for multiple AXFRs and AXFRs of
diﬀerent zones. However,
 was constrained by having to be backwards compatible
with some very early basic implementations of AXFR. For example, it outlines that the SOA query
can also happen on this connection. However, this can cause interoperability problems with
older implementations that support only the trivial case of one AXFR per connection.

[RFC5936]

[RFC5936]

5.2.  IXFR Mechanism

The ﬁgure below provides an outline of the IXFR mechanism including NOTIFYs.

   Secondary                            Primary

       |              NOTIFY               |
       | <-------------------------------- |  UDP
       | --------------------------------> |
       |          NOTIFY Response          |
       |                                   |
       |                                   |
       |            SOA Request            |
       | --------------------------------> |  UDP or TCP
       | <-------------------------------- |
       |           SOA Response            |
       |                                   |
       |                                   |
       |                                   |
       |            IXFR Request           |
       | --------------------------------> |  UDP or TCP
       | <-------------------------------- |
       |            IXFR Response          |
       |             (Zone data)           |
       |                                   |
       |                                   | ---
       |            IXFR Request           |    |
       | --------------------------------> |    | Retry over
       | <-------------------------------- |    | TCP if
       |            IXFR Response          |    | required
       |             (Zone data)           | ---

Figure 2: IXFR Mechanism

1.

An IXFR is normally (but not always) preceded by a NOTIFY (over UDP) from the primary to
the secondary. A secondary may also initiate an IXFR based on a refresh timer or scheduled/
triggered zone maintenance.

2.

The secondary will normally (but not always) make an SOA query to the primary to obtain
the serial number of the zone held by the primary.

Toorop, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9103

XFR over TLS

August 2021

3.

If the primary serial is higher than the secondary's serial (using Serial Number Arithmetic
[RFC1982]
), the secondary makes an IXFR request to the primary, after which the primary
sends an IXFR response.

[RFC1995]
single DNS packet, otherwise, TCP is used. In fact, it says:

 speciﬁes that IXFR may use UDP if the entire IXFR response can be contained in a

Thus, a client should ﬁrst make an IXFR query using UDP.

So there may be a fourth step above where the client falls back to IXFR over TCP. There may also
be an additional step where the secondary must fall back to AXFR because, e.g., the primary does
not support IXFR.

However, it is noted that most of the widely used open-source implementations of authoritative
name servers (including both
releases. For BIND, TCP connections are sometimes used for SOA queries, but, in general, they are
not used persistently and are closed after an IXFR is completed.

) do IXFR using TCP by default in their latest

[BIND]

[NSD]

 and

5.3.  Data Leakage of NOTIFY and SOA Message Exchanges

This section presents a rationale for considering the encryption of the other messages in the XFR
mechanism.

Since the SOA of the published zone can be trivially discovered by simply querying the publicly
available authoritative servers, leakage of this resource record (RR) via such a direct query is not
discussed in the following sections.

5.3.1.  NOTIFY

Unencrypted NOTIFY messages identify conﬁgured secondaries on the primary.

[RFC1996]

 also states:

If ANCOUNT>0, then the answer section represents an unsecure hint at the new RRset
for this <QNAME,QCLASS,QTYPE>.

But since the only query type (QTYPE) for NOTIFY deﬁned at the time of this writing is SOA, this
does not pose a potential leak.

5.3.2.  SOA

For hidden XFR servers (either primaries or secondaries), an SOA response directly from that
server only additionally leaks the degree of SOA serial number lag of any downstream secondary
of that server.

Toorop, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9103

XFR over TLS

August 2021

6.  Updates to Existing Speciﬁcations

For convenience, the term 'XFR over TCP' is used in this document to mean both IXFR over TCP
and AXFR over TCP; therefore, statements that use that term update both
[RFC5936]
in Section 7.

 and implicitly also apply to XoT. Diﬀerences in behavior speciﬁc to XoT are discussed

[RFC1995]

 and

 and

[RFC1995]

[RFC5936]

 were published sometime before TCP became a widely supported

, in fact, says nothing with respect to optimizing IXFRs over TCP or

Both
[RFC1995]
transport for DNS.
reusing already open TCP connections to perform IXFRs or other queries. Therefore, there
arguably is an implicit assumption that a TCP connection is used for one and only one IXFR
request. Indeed, many major open-source implementations take this approach (at the time of this
writing). And whilst
recent speciﬁcations describing persistent TCP connections (e.g.,
AXFR implementations again often make less-than-optimal use of open connections.

 gives guidance on connection reuse for AXFR, it predates more

,
[RFC7766] [RFC7828]

[RFC5936]

), and

Given this, new implementations of XoT will clearly beneﬁt from speciﬁc guidance on TCP/TLS
connection usage for XFR, because this will:

•

result in more consistent XoT implementations with better interoperability and

•

remove any need for XoT implementations to support legacy behavior for XoT connections
that XFR-over-TCP implementations have historically often supported.

Therefore, this document updates both the previous speciﬁcations for XFR over TCP (
and

) to clarify that:

[RFC5936]

[RFC1995]

•

Implementations
Requirements") to optimize the use of TCP connections.

[RFC7766]

MUST

 use

 ("DNS Transport over TCP - Implementation

•

[RFC7766]

 states that "DNS clients

Whilst
 pipeline their queries" on TCP connections,
SHOULD
it did not distinguish between XFRs and other queries for this behavior. It is now recognized
that XFRs are not as latency sensitive as other queries and can be signiﬁcantly more complex
for clients to handle, both because of the large amount of state that must be kept and
because there may be multiple messages in the responses. For these reasons, it is clariﬁed
here that a valid reason for not pipelining queries is when they are all XFR queries, i.e.,
clients sending multiple XFRs
 choose not to pipeline those queries. Clients that do not
pipeline XFR queries therefore have no additional requirements to handle out-of-order or
intermingled responses (as described later), since they will never receive them.

MAY

•

Implementations
persistent connections. This is more ﬂexible than the alternative of simply using ﬁxed
timeouts.

 use the edns-tcp-keepalive EDNS(0) option

[RFC7828]

SHOULD

 to manage

The following sections include detailed clariﬁcations on the updates to XFR behavior implied in
 applies speciﬁcally to XFR exchanges. They also discuss
[RFC7766]
how IXFR and AXFR can reuse the same TCP connection.

 and how the use of

[RFC7828]

Toorop, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9103

XFR over TLS

August 2021

For completeness, the recent speciﬁcation of extended DNS error (EDE) codes
mentioned here. For zone transfers, when returning REFUSED to a zone transfer request from an
'unauthorized' client (e.g., where the client is not listed in an ACL for zone transfers or does not
sign the request with a valid TSIG key), the extended DNS error code 18 - Prohibited can also be
sent.

[RFC8914]

 is also

6.1.  Update to RFC 1995 for IXFR over TCP

For clarity, an IXFR-over-TCP server compliant with this speciﬁcation
multiple concurrent IXoT requests on a single TCP connection (for the same and diﬀerent zones)
and
compared to the requests.

 send the responses as soon as they are available, which might be out of order

 be able to handle

SHOULD

MUST

6.2.  Update to RFC 5936 for AXFR over TCP

For clarity, an AXFR-over-TCP server compliant with this speciﬁcation
multiple concurrent AXoT sessions on a single TCP connection (for the same and diﬀerent zones).
The response streams for concurrent AXFRs
compliant with this speciﬁcation, which pipeline AXFR requests,

 be intermingled, and AXFR-over-TCP clients
 be able to handle this.

 be able to handle

MUST

MUST

MAY

6.3.  Updates to RFCs 1995 and 5936 for XFR over TCP

6.3.1.  Connection Reuse

 reuse any existing open TCP connection when starting
As speciﬁed, XFR-over-TCP clients
any new XFR request to the same primary, and for issuing SOA queries, instead of opening a new
connection. The number of TCP connections between a secondary and primary
minimized (also see Section 6.4).

SHOULD

SHOULD

 be

Valid reasons for not reusing existing connections might include:

•

[RFC7766]

As already noted in
for operational reasons. In this case, the number of concurrent connections for zone
transfers
server.

 be limited to the total number of zones transferred between the client and

, separate connections for diﬀerent zones might be preferred

SHOULD

•

A conﬁgured limit for the number of outstanding queries or XFR requests allowed on a
single TCP connection has been reached.

•

The message ID pool has already been exhausted on an open connection.

•

A large number of timeouts or slow responses have occurred on an open connection.

•

An edns-tcp-keepalive EDNS(0) option with a timeout of 0 has been received from the server,
and the client is in the process of closing the connection (see Section 6.3.4).

If no TCP connections are currently open, XFR clients
TCP connection.

MAY

 send SOA queries over UDP or a new

Toorop, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9103

XFR over TLS

August 2021

6.3.2.  AXFRs and IXFRs on the Same Connection

[RFC1995]
Neither
IXFR and AXFR requests.

 nor

[RFC5936]

 explicitly discuss the use of a single TCP connection for both

[RFC5936]

 does make the general statement:

Non-AXFR session traﬃc can also use an open connection.

In this document, the above is clariﬁed to indicate that implementations capable of both AXFR
and IXFR and compliant with this speciﬁcation

:
SHOULD

•

use the same TCP connection for both AXFR and IXFR requests to the same primary,

•

pipeline such requests (if they pipeline XFR requests in general) and
and

MAY

 intermingle them,

•

send the response(s) for each request as soon as they are available, i.e., responses
sent intermingled.

MAY

 be

For some current implementations, adding all the above functionality would introduce
signiﬁcant code complexity. In such a case, there will need to be an assessment of the trade-oﬀ
between that and the performance beneﬁts of the above for XFR.

6.3.3.  XFR Limits

MAY

 limit the number of concurrent IXFRs, AXFRs, or total XFR transfers in progress
 return SERVFAIL if this

The server
(or from a given secondary) to protect server resources. Servers
limit is hit, since it is a transient error and a retry at a later time might succeed (there is no
previous speciﬁcation for this behavior).

SHOULD

6.3.4.  The edns-tcp-keepalive EDNS(0) Option

XFR clients that send the edns-tcp-keepalive EDNS(0) option on every XFR request provide the
server with maximum opportunity to update the edns-tcp-keepalive timeout. The XFR server
may use the frequency of recent XFRs to calculate an average update rate as input to the decision
of what edns-tcp-keepalive timeout to use. If the server does not support edns-tcp-keepalive, the
 recommends that servers use
client
timeouts of at least a few seconds).

 keep the connection open for a few seconds (

[RFC7766]

MAY

Whilst the speciﬁcation for EDNS(0)

[RFC6891]

 does not speciﬁcally mention AXFRs, it does say:

If an OPT record is present in a received request, compliant responders
OPT record in their respective responses.

MUST

 include an

In this document, the above is clariﬁed to indicate that if an OPT record is present in a received
AXFR request, compliant responders
AXFR responses. Note that this requirement, combined with the use of edns-tcp-keepalive,

 include an OPT record in each of the subsequent

MUST

Toorop, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9103

XFR over TLS

August 2021

enables AXFR servers to signal the desire to close a connection (when existing transactions have
competed) due to low resources by sending an edns-tcp-keepalive EDNS(0) option with a timeout
of 0 on any AXFR response. This does not signal that the AXFR is aborted, just that the server
wishes to close the connection as soon as possible.

6.3.5.  Backwards Compatibility

[RFC5936]

Certain legacy behaviors were noted in
want to oﬀer options to fallback to legacy behavior when interoperating with servers known to
not support
want to continue oﬀering such conﬁguration options, as well as supporting some behaviors that
were underspeciﬁed prior to this work (e.g., performing IXFR and AXFRs on separate
connections). However, XoT connections should have no need to do so.

. For purposes of interoperability, IXFR and AXFR implementations may

, with provisions that implementations may

[RFC5936]

6.4.  Update to RFC 7766

[RFC7766]
handling:

 made general implementation recommendations with regard to TCP/TLS connection

To mitigate the risk of unintentional server overload, DNS clients
minimize the number of concurrent TCP connections made to any individual server. It is
 that for any given client/server interaction there
RECOMMENDED
than one connection for regular queries, one for zone transfers, and one for each
protocol that is being used on top of TCP (for example, if the resolver was using TLS).
However, it is noted that certain primary/ secondary conﬁgurations with many busy
zones might need to use more than one TCP connection for zone transfers for
operational reasons (for example, to support concurrent transfers of multiple zones).

 take care to

 be no more

SHOULD

MUST

Whilst this recommends a particular behavior for the clients using TCP, it does not relax the
requirement for servers to handle 'mixed' traﬃc (regular queries and zone transfers) on any
open TCP/TLS connection. It also overlooks the potential that other transports might want to take
the same approach with regard to using separate connections for diﬀerent purposes.

This speciﬁcation updates the above general guidance in
separation of connection purpose (regular queries and zone transfers) for all transports being
used on top of TCP.

 to provide the same

[RFC7766]

Therefore, it is
server interaction there
zone transfers.

RECOMMENDED

 that for each protocol used on top of TCP in any given client/

SHOULD

 be no more than one connection for regular queries and one for

As an illustration, it could be imagined that in the future such an interaction could hypothetically
include one or all of the following:

•

one TCP connection for regular queries

•

one TCP connection for zone transfers

Toorop, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9103

XFR over TLS

August 2021

•

one TLS connection for regular queries

•

one TLS connection for zone transfers

•

one DoH connection for regular queries

•

one DoH connection for zone transfers

Section 6.3.1 provides speciﬁc details of the reasons why more than one connection for a given
transport might be required for zone transfers from a particular client.

7.  XoT Speciﬁcation

7.1.  Connection Establishment

During connection establishment, the Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation (ALPN) token "dot"
[DoT-ALPN] MUST

 be selected in the TLS handshake.

7.2.  TLS Versions

All implementations of this speciﬁcation

MUST

 use only TLS 1.3

[RFC8446]

 or later.

7.3.  Port Selection

The connection for XoT
there is mutual agreement between the primary and secondary to use a port other than port 853
 be agreement to use diﬀerent ports for AXoT and IXoT or for diﬀerent zones.
for XoT. There

 be established using port 853, as speciﬁed in

[RFC7858]

, unless

SHOULD

MAY

7.4.  High-Level XoT Descriptions

It is useful to note that in XoT it is the secondary that initiates the TLS connection to the primary
for an XFR request so that, in terms of connectivity, the secondary is the TLS client and the
primary is the TLS server.

The ﬁgure below provides an outline of the AXoT mechanism including NOTIFYs.

Toorop, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9103

XFR over TLS

August 2021

   Secondary                            Primary

       |              NOTIFY               |
       | <-------------------------------- |  UDP
       | --------------------------------> |
       |          NOTIFY Response          |
       |                                   |
       |                                   |
       |            SOA Request            |
       | --------------------------------> |  UDP (or part of
       | <-------------------------------- |  a TCP/TLS session)
       |           SOA Response            |
       |                                   |
       |                                   |
       |                                   |
       |            AXFR Request           | ---
       | --------------------------------> |   |
       | <-------------------------------- |   |
       |          AXFR Response 1          |   |
       |             (Zone data)           |   |
       |                                   |   |
       | <-------------------------------- |   | TLS
       |          AXFR Response 2          |   | Session
       |             (Zone data)           |   |
       |                                   |   |
       | <-------------------------------- |   |
       |          AXFR Response 3          |   |
       |             (Zone data)           | ---
       |                                   |

Figure 3: AXoT Mechanism

The ﬁgure below provides an outline of the IXoT mechanism including NOTIFYs.

Toorop, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9103

XFR over TLS

August 2021

   Secondary                            Primary

       |              NOTIFY               |
       | <-------------------------------- |  UDP
       | --------------------------------> |
       |          NOTIFY Response          |
       |                                   |
       |                                   |
       |            SOA Request            |
       | --------------------------------> |  UDP (or part of
       | <-------------------------------- |  a TCP/TLS session)
       |           SOA Response            |
       |                                   |
       |                                   |
       |                                   |
       |            IXFR Request           | ---
       | --------------------------------> |    |
       | <-------------------------------- |    |
       |            IXFR Response          |    |
       |             (Zone data)           |    |
       |                                   |    | TLS
       |                                   |    | session
       |            IXFR Request           |    |
       | --------------------------------> |    |
       | <-------------------------------- |    |
       |            IXFR Response          |    |
       |             (Zone data)           | ---

Figure 4: IXoT Mechanism

7.5.  XoT Transfers

For a zone transfer between two endpoints to be considered protected with XoT, all XFR requests
and responses for that zone

 be sent over TLS connections, where at a minimum:

MUST

•

The client
Strict Privacy proﬁle, as described in

MUST

[RFC8310]

.

 authenticate the server by use of an authentication domain name using a

•

MUST

The server
using one or both of the following methods:
◦

mutual TLS (mTLS)

 validate the client is authorized to request or proxy a zone transfer by

◦

an IP-based ACL (which can be either per message or per connection) combined with a
valid TSIG/SIG(0) signature on the XFR request

If only one method is selected, then mTLS is preferred because it provides strong cryptographic
protection at both endpoints.

Authentication mechanisms are discussed in full in Section 9, and the rationale for the above
requirement is discussed in Section 10. Transfer group policies are discussed in Section 11.

Toorop, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9103

XFR over TLS

August 2021

7.6.  XoT Connections

The details in Section 6 about, e.g., persistent connections and XFR message handling, are fully
applicable to XoT connections as well. However, any behavior speciﬁed here takes precedence
for XoT.

If no TLS connections are currently open, XoT clients
TLS.

MAY

 send SOA queries over UDP, TCP, or

7.7.  XoT vs. ADoT

As noted earlier, there is currently no speciﬁcation for encryption of connections from recursive
resolvers to authoritative servers. Some authoritative servers are experimenting with ADoT, and
opportunistic encryption has also been raised as a possibility; therefore, it is highly likely that
use of encryption by authoritative servers will evolve in the coming years.

This raises questions in the short term with regard to TLS connection and message handling for
authoritative servers. In particular, there is likely to be a class of authoritative servers that wish
to use XoT in the near future with a small number of conﬁgured secondaries but that do not wish
to support DoT for regular queries from recursives in that same time frame. These servers have
to potentially cope with probing and direct queries from recursives and from test servers and
also potential attacks that might wish to make use of TLS to overload the server.

 clearly states that non-AXFR session traﬃc can use an open connection; however, this

[RFC5936]
requirement needs to be reevaluated when considering the application of the same model to XoT.
Proposing that a server should also start responding to all queries received over TLS just because
it has enabled XoT would be equivalent to deﬁning a form of authoritative DoT. This speciﬁcation
does not propose that, but it also does not prohibit servers from answering queries unrelated to
XFR exchanges over TLS. Rather, this speciﬁcation simply outlines in later sections:

•

the utilization of EDE codes by XoT servers in response to queries on TLS connections that
they are not willing to answer (see Section 7.8)

•

the operational and policy options that an operator of a XoT server has with regard to
managing TLS connections and messages (see Appendix A)

7.8.  Response RCODES

MUST

XoT clients and servers
not willing to answer on a TLS connection, it
DNS error code 21 - Not Supported
[RFC8914]
this type to the server for a reasonable period of time (for example, one hour), i.e., long enough
that the server conﬁguration or policy might be updated.

 implement EDE codes. If a XoT server receives non-XoT traﬃc it is
 respond with REFUSED and the extended

SHOULD
. XoT clients should not send any further queries of

Historically, servers have used the REFUSED RCODE for many situations; therefore, clients often
had no detailed information on which to base an error or fallback path when queries were
refused. As a result, the client behavior could vary signiﬁcantly. XoT servers that refuse queries

Toorop, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9103

XFR over TLS

August 2021

must cater to the fact that client behavior might vary from continually retrying queries
regardless of receiving REFUSED to every query or, at the other extreme, clients may decide to
stop using the server over any transport. This might be because those clients are either non-XoT
clients or do not implement EDE codes.

7.9.  AXoT Speciﬁcs

7.9.1.  Padding AXoT Responses

The goal of padding AXoT responses is two fold:

•

to obfuscate the actual size of the transferred zone to minimize information leakage about
the entire contents of the zone

•

to obfuscate the incremental changes to the zone between SOA updates to minimize
information leakage about zone update activity and growth

Note that the reuse of XoT connections for transfers of multiple diﬀerent zones slightly
complicates any attempt to analyze the traﬃc size and timing to extract information. Also,
eﬀective padding may require the state to be kept because zones may grow and/or shrink over
time.

It is noted here that, depending on the padding policies eventually developed for XoT, the
requirement to obfuscate the total zone size might require a server to create 'empty' AXoT
responses, that is, AXoT responses that contain no RRs apart from an OPT RR containing the
EDNS(0) option for padding. For example, without this capability, the maximum size that a tiny
zone could be padded to would theoretically be limited if there had to be a minimum of 1 RR per
packet.

However, as with existing AXFR, the last AXoT response message sent
SOA that was in the ﬁrst message of the AXoT response series in order to signal the conclusion of
the zone transfer.

 contain the same

MUST

[RFC5936]

 says:

 contain a suﬃcient number of RRs to reasonably
Each AXFR response message
amortize the per-message overhead, up to the largest number that will ﬁt within a DNS
message (taking the required content of the other sections into account, as described
below).

SHOULD

'Empty' AXoT responses generated in order to meet a padding requirement will be exceptions to
the above statement. For ﬂexibility, for future prooﬁng, and in order to guarantee support for
 be resilient to
future padding policies, it is stated here that secondary implementations
receiving padded AXoT responses, including 'empty' AXoT responses that contain only an OPT RR
containing the EDNS(0) option for padding.

MUST

Toorop, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9103

XFR over TLS

August 2021

Recommendations of speciﬁc policies for padding AXoT responses are out of scope for this
speciﬁcation. Detailed considerations of such policies and the trade-oﬀs involved are expected to
be the subject of future work.

7.10.  IXoT Speciﬁcs

7.10.1.  Condensation of Responses

 says that condensation of responses is optional and

[RFC1995]
 be done. Whilst it does add
complexity to generating responses, it can signiﬁcantly reduce the size of responses. However,
any such reduction might be oﬀset by increased message size due to padding. This speciﬁcation
does not update the optionality of condensation for XoT responses.

MAY

7.10.2.  Fallback to AXFR

Fallback to AXFR can happen, for example, if the server is not able to provide an IXFR for the
requested SOA. Implementations diﬀer in how long they store zone deltas and how many may be
stored at any one time.

Just as with IXFR over TCP, after a failed IXFR, an IXoT client
already open XoT connection.

SHOULD

 request the AXFR on the

7.10.3.  Padding of IXoT Responses

The goal of padding IXoT responses is to obfuscate the incremental changes to the zone between
SOA updates to minimize information leakage about zone update activity and growth. Both the
size and timing of the IXoT responses could reveal information.

IXFR responses can vary greatly in size from the order of 100 bytes for one or two record updates
to tens of thousands of bytes for large, dynamic DNSSEC-signed zones. The frequency of IXFR
responses can also depend greatly on if and how the zone is DNSSEC signed.

In order to guarantee support for future padding policies, it is stated here that secondary
implementations

 be resilient to receiving padded IXoT responses.

MUST

Recommendation of speciﬁc policies for padding IXoT responses are out of scope for this
speciﬁcation. Detailed considerations of such padding policies, the use of traﬃc obfuscation
techniques (such as generating fake XFR traﬃc), and the trade-oﬀs involved are expected to be
the subject of future work.

7.11.  Name Compression and Maximum Payload Sizes

[RFC1035]
It is noted here that name compression
size of the payload; however, the maximum value of the oﬀset that can be used in the name
compression pointer structure is 16384. For some DNS implementations, this limits the size of an
individual XFR response used in practice to something around the order of 16 KB. In principle,
larger payload sizes can be supported for some responses with more sophisticated approaches
(e.g., by precalculating the maximum oﬀset required).

 can be used in XFR responses to reduce the

Toorop, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9103

XFR over TLS

August 2021

Implementations may wish to oﬀer options to disable name compression for XoT responses to
enable larger payloads. This might be particularly helpful when padding is used, since
minimizing the payload size is not necessarily a useful optimization in this case and disabling
name compression will reduce the resources required to construct the payload.

8.  Multi-primary Conﬁgurations

This model can provide ﬂexibility and redundancy, particularly for IXFR. A secondary will
receive one or more NOTIFY messages and can send an SOA to all of the conﬁgured primaries. It
can then choose to send an XFR request to the primary with the highest SOA (or based on other
criteria, e.g., RTT).

When using persistent connections, the secondary may have a XoT connection already open to
one or more primaries. Should a secondary preferentially request an XFR from a primary to
which it already has an open XoT connection or the one with the highest SOA (assuming it
doesn't have a connection open to it already)?

Two extremes can be envisaged here. The ﬁrst one can be considered a 'preferred primary
connection' model. In this case, the secondary continues to use one persistent connection to a
single primary until it has reason not to. Reasons not to might include the primary repeatedly
closing the connection, long query/response RTTs on transfers, or the SOA of the primary being
an unacceptable lag behind the SOA of an alternative primary.

The other extreme can be considered a 'parallel primary connection' model. Here, a secondary
could keep multiple persistent connections open to all available primaries and only request XFRs
from the primary with the highest serial number. Since normally the number of secondaries and
primaries in direct contact in a transfer group is reasonably low, this might be feasible if latency
is the most signiﬁcant concern.

Recommendation of a particular scheme is out of scope of this document, but implementations
are encouraged to provide conﬁguration options that allow operators to make choices about this
behavior.

9.  Authentication Mechanisms

To provide context to the requirements in Section 7.5, this section provides a brief summary of
some of the existing authentication and validation mechanisms (both transport independent and
TLS speciﬁc) that are available when performing zone transfers. Section 10 then discusses in
more detail speciﬁcally how a combination of TLS authentication, TSIG, and IP-based ACLs
interact for XoT.

In this document, the mechanisms are classiﬁed based on the following properties:

Toorop, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9103

XFR over TLS

August 2021

Data Origin Authentication (DO):

Authentication 1) of the fact that the DNS message originated from the party with whom
credentials were shared and 2) of the data integrity of the message contents (the originating
party may or may not be the party operating the far end of a TCP/TLS connection in a 'proxy'
scenario).

Channel Conﬁdentiality (CC):

Conﬁdentiality of the communication channel between the client and server (i.e., the two
endpoints of a TCP/TLS connection) from passive surveillance.

Channel Authentication (CA):

Authentication of the identity of the party to whom a TCP/TLS connection is made (this might
not be a direct connection between the primary and secondary in a proxy scenario).

9.1.  TSIG

[RFC8945]

 provides a mechanism for two or more parties to use shared secret keys that can

TSIG
then be used to create a message digest to protect individual DNS messages. This allows each
party to authenticate that a request or response (and the data in it) came from the other party,
even if it was transmitted over an unsecured channel or via a proxy.

Properties:

Data origin authentication.

9.2.  SIG(0)

[RFC2931]

 similarly provides a mechanism to digitally sign a DNS message but uses public

SIG(0)
key authentication, where the public keys are stored in DNS as KEY RRs and a private key is
stored at the signer.

Properties:

Data origin authentication.

9.3.  TLS

9.3.1.  Opportunistic TLS

Opportunistic TLS for DoT is deﬁned in
surveillance, providing on-the-wire conﬁdentiality. Essentially:

[RFC8310]

 and can provide a defense against passive

•

if clients know authentication information for a server, they
server,

SHOULD

 try to authenticate the

•

if this fails or clients do not know the information, they
authentication, or

MAY

 fallback to using TLS without

•

clients

MAY

 fallback to using cleartext if TLS is not available.

As such, it does not oﬀer a defense against active attacks (e.g., an on-path active attacker on the
connection from client to server) and is not considered as useful for XoT.

Toorop, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9103

XFR over TLS

August 2021

Properties: None guaranteed.

9.3.2.  Strict TLS

[RFC8310]

Strict TLS for DoT
 requires that a client is conﬁgured with an authentication domain
 be used to authenticate the TLS
name (and/or Subject Public Key Info (SPKI) pin set) that
handshake with the server. If authentication of the server fails, the client will not proceed with
the connection. This provides a defense for the client against active surveillance, providing
client-to-server authentication and end-to-end channel conﬁdentiality.

MUST

Properties:

Channel conﬁdentiality and channel authentication (of the server).

9.3.3.  Mutual TLS

[RFC8310]

This is an extension to Strict TLS
authentication domain name (and/or SPKI pin set) and a client certiﬁcate. The client oﬀers the
certiﬁcate for authentication by the server, and the client can authenticate the server the same
way as in Strict TLS. This provides a defense for both parties against active surveillance,
providing bidirectional authentication and end-to-end channel conﬁdentiality.

 that requires that a client is conﬁgured with an

Properties:

Channel conﬁdentiality and mutual channel authentication.

9.4.  IP-Based ACL on the Primary

Most DNS server implementations oﬀer an option to conﬁgure an IP-based ACL, which is often
used in combination with TSIG-based ACLs to restrict access to zone transfers on primary servers
on a per-query basis.

This is also possible with XoT, but it must be noted that, as with TCP, the implementation of such
an ACL cannot be enforced on the primary until an XFR request is received on an established
connection.

As discussed in Appendix A, an IP-based per-connection ACL could also be implemented where
only TLS connections from recognized secondaries are accepted.

Properties:

Channel authentication of the client.

9.5.  ZONEMD

[RFC8976]

For completeness, ZONEMD
 ("Message Digest for DNS Zones") is described here. The
ZONEMD message digest is a mechanism that can be used to verify the content of a standalone
zone. It is designed to be independent of the transmission channel or mechanism, allowing a
general consumer of a zone to do origin authentication of the entire zone contents. Note that the
current version of

[RFC8976]

 states:

Toorop, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9103

XFR over TLS

August 2021

As speciﬁed herein, ZONEMD is impractical for large, dynamic zones due to the time and
resources required for digest calculation. However, the ZONEMD record is extensible so
that new digest schemes may be added in the future to support large, dynamic zones.

It is complementary but orthogonal to the above mechanisms and can be used in conjunction
with XoT but is not considered further here.

10.  XoT Authentication

It is noted that zone transfer scenarios can vary from a simple single primary/secondary
relationship where both servers are under the control of a single operator to a complex
hierarchical structure that includes proxies and multiple operators. Each deployment scenario
will require speciﬁc analysis to determine which combination of authentication methods are
best suited to the deployment model in question.

The XoT authentication requirement speciﬁed in Section 7.5 addresses the issue of ensuring that
the transfers are encrypted between the two endpoints directly involved in the current transfers.
The following table summarizes the properties of a selection of the mechanisms discussed in
Section 9. The two-letter abbreviations for the properties are used below: (S) indicates the
secondary and (P) indicates the primary.

Method

DO(S)

CC(S)

CA(S) DO(P)

CC(P)

CA(P)

Strict TLS

Mutual TLS

ACL on primary

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

TSIG

Y

Y

Table 1: Properties of Authentication Methods for XoT

Based on this analysis, it can be seen that:

•

Using just mutual TLS can be considered a standalone solution since both endpoints are
cryptographically authenticated.

•

Using secondary-side Strict TLS with a primary-side IP-based ACL and TSIG/SIG(0)
combination provides suﬃcient protection to be acceptable.

Using just an IP-based ACL could be susceptible to attacks that can spoof TCP IP addresses; using
TSIG/SIG(0) alone could be susceptible to attacks that were able to capture such messages should
they be accidentally sent in cleartext by any server with the key.

Toorop, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9103

XFR over TLS

August 2021

11.  Policies for Both AXoT and IXoT

Whilst the protection of the zone contents in a transfer between two endpoints can be provided
by the XoT protocol, the protection of all the transfers of a given zone requires operational
administration and policy management.

The entire group of servers involved in XFR for a particular set of zones (all the primaries and all
the secondaries) is called the 'transfer group'.

In order to assure the conﬁdentiality of the zone information, the entire transfer group
have a consistent policy of using XoT. If any do not, this is a weak link for attackers to exploit. For
clariﬁcation, this means that within any transfer group both AXFRs and IXFRs for a zone
all use XoT.

MUST

MUST

An individual zone transfer is not considered protected by XoT unless both the client and server
are conﬁgured to use only XoT, and the overall zone transfer is not considered protected until all
members of the transfer group are conﬁgured to use only XoT with all other transfers servers
(see Section 12).

A XoT policy

MUST

 specify if:

•

mutual TLS is used and/or

•

an IP-based ACL and TSIG/SIG(0) combination is used.

Since this may require conﬁguration of a number of servers who may be under the control of
diﬀerent operators, the desired consistency could be hard to enforce and audit in practice.

Certain aspects of the policies can be relatively easy to test independently, e.g., by requesting
zone transfers without TSIG, from unauthorized IP addresses or over cleartext DNS. Other
aspects, such as if a secondary will accept data without a TSIG digest or if secondaries are using
Strict as opposed to Opportunistic TLS, are more challenging.

The mechanics of coordinating or enforcing such policies are out of the scope of this document
but may be the subject of future operational guidance.

12.  Implementation Considerations

Server implementations may want to also oﬀer options that allow ACLs on a zone to specify that
a speciﬁc client can use either XoT or TCP. This would allow for ﬂexibility while clients are
migrating to XoT.

Client implementations may similarly want to oﬀer options to cater to the multi-primary case
where the primaries are migrating to XoT.

Toorop, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9103

XFR over TLS

August 2021

13.  Operational Considerations

If the options described in Section 12 are available, such conﬁguration options
used in a 'migration mode' and therefore should be used with great care.

MUST

 only be

It is noted that use of a TLS proxy in front of the primary server is a simple deployment solution
that can enable server-side XoT.

14.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

15.  Security Considerations

This document speciﬁes a security measure against a DNS risk: the risk that an attacker collects
entire DNS zones through eavesdropping on cleartext DNS zone transfers.

This does not mitigate:

•

the risk that some level of zone activity might be inferred by observing zone transfer sizes
and timing on encrypted connections (even with padding applied), in combination with
obtaining SOA records by directly querying authoritative servers,

•

the risk that hidden primaries might be inferred or identiﬁed via observation of encrypted
connections, or

•

the risk of zone contents being obtained via zone enumeration techniques.

Security concerns of DoT are outlined in

[RFC7858]

 and

[RFC8310]

.

16.  References

16.1.  Normative References

[DoT-ALPN]

[RFC1034]

[RFC1035]

[RFC1995]

,

IANA "TLS Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation (ALPN) Protocol IDs"
<https://www.iana.org/assignments/tls-extensiontype-values/>

.

,

Mockapetris, P. "Domain names - concepts and facilities" STD 13 RFC 1034 DOI
10.17487/RFC1034

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1034>

, November 1987,

.

,

,

Mockapetris, P. "Domain names - implementation and speciﬁcation" STD 13
,
RFC 1035 DOI 10.17487/RFC1035
info/rfc1035>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, November 1987,

,

,

,

.

,

Ohta, M. "Incremental Zone Transfer in DNS" RFC 1995 DOI 10.17487/RFC1995
August 1996,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1995>

,

,

.

,

Toorop, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9103

XFR over TLS

August 2021

[RFC1996]

[RFC2119]

[RFC2931]

[RFC5936]

[RFC6973]

[RFC7766]

[RFC7828]

[RFC7858]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8310]

[RFC8446]

[RFC8499]

[RFC8914]

,

Vixie, P. "A Mechanism for Prompt Notiﬁcation of Zone Changes (DNS NOTIFY)"
RFC 1996 DOI 10.17487/RFC1996
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, August 1996,
rfc1996>

,
.

,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Eastlake 3rd, D. "DNS Request and Transaction Signatures ( SIG(0)s )" RFC 2931
DOI 10.17487/RFC2931
rfc2931>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, September 2000,

,

.

,

Lewis, E.
 and
DOI 10.17487/RFC5936

A. Hoenes, Ed. "DNS Zone Transfer Protocol (AXFR)" RFC 5936
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5936>
.

,
, June 2010,

,

,

Cooper, A. Tschofenig, H. Aboba, B. Peterson, J. Morris, J. Hansen, M.
R.
Smith "Privacy Considerations for Internet Protocols" RFC 6973 DOI 10.17487/
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6973>
RFC6973

, July 2013,

, and

,

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

,

Dickinson, J. Dickinson, S. Bellis, R. Mankin, A.
over TCP - Implementation Requirements" RFC 7766 DOI 10.17487/RFC7766
March 2016,

, and
D. Wessels "DNS Transport
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7766>

.

,

,

,

,

,

,

,
Wouters, P. Abley, J. Dickinson, S.
Option" RFC 7828 DOI 10.17487/RFC7828
editor.org/info/rfc7828>

, and

,

,

.

,
, April 2016,

R. Bellis "The edns-tcp-keepalive EDNS0

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

Hu, Z. Zhu, L. Heidemann, J. Mankin, A. Wessels, D.
"Speciﬁcation for DNS over Transport Layer Security (TLS)" RFC 7858 DOI
10.17487/RFC7858

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7858>

, May 2016,

P. Hoﬀman

, and

,

,

.

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

,
Dickinson, S. Gillmor, D.
,
DNS over DTLS" RFC 8310 DOI 10.17487/RFC8310
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8310>

, and
,

,

.

T. Reddy "Usage Proﬁles for DNS over TLS and

, March 2018,

<https://

,
Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>

, August 2018,

,

.

,

,
Hoﬀman, P. Sullivan, A.
,
8499 DOI 10.17487/RFC8499
rfc8499>

, and

.

K. Fujiwara "DNS Terminology" BCP 219 RFC
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, January 2019,

,

,

,

,

,
Kumari, W. Hunt, E. Arends, R. Hardaker, W.
Errors" RFC 8914 DOI 10.17487/RFC8914
editor.org/info/rfc8914>

,

,

,

.

, and
, October 2020,

,
D. Lawrence "Extended DNS
<https://www.rfc-

Toorop, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9103

XFR over TLS

August 2021

[RFC8945]

,

,
,

Dupont, F. Morris, S. Vixie, P. Eastlake 3rd, D. Gudmundsson, O.
Wellington "Secret Key Transaction Authentication for DNS (TSIG)" STD 93 RFC
8945 DOI 10.17487/RFC8945
,
rfc8945>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, November 2020,

, and
,

B.

,

,

,

.

16.2.  Informative References

[BIND]

ISC "BIND 9.16.16" <https://www.isc.org/bind/>

,

,

.

[DPRIVE-DNSOQUIC]

Huitema, C. Dickinson, S.
,

, and

A. Mankin "Speciﬁcation of DNS over

Dedicated QUIC Connections" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-
dprive-dnsoquic-03
dprive-dnsoquic-03>

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-

, 12 July 2021,

,

.

,
,

[NIST-GUIDE]

[NSD]

Chandramouli, R.
Guide"
NIST.SP.800-81-2.pdf>

, September 2013,

 and

.

,

S. Rose "Secure Domain Name System (DNS) Deployment
<https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/

NLnet Labs "NSD 4.3.6" <https://www.nlnetlabs.nl/projects/nsd/about/>

,

,

.

[NSEC3-attacks]

Goldberg, S. Naor, N. Papadopoulos, D. Reyzin, L. Vasant, S.

,

,

,

,

, and

A. Ziv

,

"Stretching NSEC3 to the Limit: Eﬃcient Zone Enumeration Attacks on NSEC3
Variants"
nsec3attacks.pdf>

<https://www.cs.bu.edu/~goldbe/papers/

, February 2015,
.

,

,

Vcelak, J. Goldberg, S. Papadopoulos, D. Huque, S.
D. Lawrence "NSEC5,
DNSSEC Authenticated Denial of Existence" Work in Progress Internet-Draft,
draft-vcelak-nsec5-08
draft-vcelak-nsec5-08>

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/

, 29 December 2018,

, and

,

,

,

.

,

Elz, R.
RFC1982

 and

R. Bush "Serial Number Arithmetic" RFC 1982 DOI 10.17487/

,

,

,

, August 1996,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1982>

.

,

, and
Laurie, B. Sisson, G. Arends, R.
,
Authenticated Denial of Existence" RFC 5155 DOI 10.17487/RFC5155
2008,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5155>

D. Blacka "DNS Security (DNSSEC) Hashed

, March

,

.

,

,
Damas, J. Graﬀ, M.
,
STD 75 RFC 6891 DOI 10.17487/RFC6891
editor.org/info/rfc6891>

, and

,

.

,

P. Vixie "Extension Mechanisms for DNS (EDNS(0))"

,

, April 2013,

<https://www.rfc-

Hoﬀman, P.
10.17487/RFC8484

 and

P. McManus "DNS Queries over HTTPS (DoH)" RFC 8484 DOI

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8484>

, October 2018,

,

,

.

,

Wessels, D. Barber, P. Weinberg, M. Kumari, W.
,
Digest for DNS Zones" RFC 8976 DOI 10.17487/RFC8976
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8976>

, and

,
,

,

W. Hardaker "Message

,

, February 2021,

<https://

Wicinski, T., Ed. "DNS Privacy Considerations" RFC 9076 DOI 10.17487/RFC9076
July 2021,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9076>

.

,

,

,

,

[NSEC5]

[RFC1982]

[RFC5155]

[RFC6891]

[RFC8484]

[RFC8976]

[RFC9076]

Toorop, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 9103

XFR over TLS

August 2021

[TLS-ESNI]

,

Rescorla, E. Oku, K. Sullivan, N.
Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-tls-esni-13
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-tls-esni-13>

, and

C. A. Wood "TLS Encrypted Client Hello"
,
<https://

, 12 August 2021,

,

.

,

,

Appendix A.  XoT Server Connection Handling

This appendix provides a non-normative outline of the pros and cons of XoT server connection-
handling options.

For completeness, it is noted that an earlier draft version of this document suggested using a XoT-
speciﬁc ALPN to negotiate TLS connections that supported only a limited set of queries (SOA,
XFRs); however, this did not gain support. Reasons given included additional code complexity
and the fact that XoT and ADoT are both DNS wire format and so should share the dot ALPN.

A.1.  Listening Only on a Speciﬁc IP Address for TLS

Obviously, a name server that hosts a zone and services queries for the zone on an IP address
published in an NS record may wish to use a separate IP address for XoT to listen for TLS, only
publishing that address to its secondaries.

Pros:

Probing of the public IP address will show no support for TLS. ACLs will prevent zone

transfer on all transports on a per-query basis.

Cons:

Attackers passively observing traﬃc will still be able to observe TLS connections to the

separate address.

A.2.  Client-Speciﬁc TLS Acceptance

Primaries that include IP-based ACLs and/or mutual TLS in their authentication models have the
option of only accepting TLS connections from authorized clients. This could be implemented
either using a proxy or directly in the DNS implementation.

Pros:

Connection management happens at setup time. The maximum number of TLS
connections a server will have to support can be easily assessed. Once the connection is
accepted, the server might well be willing to answer any query on that connection since it is
coming from a conﬁgured secondary, and a speciﬁc response policy on the connection may
not be needed (see below).

Cons:

Currently, none of the major open-source implementations of a DNS authoritative server

support such an option.

A.3.  SNI-Based TLS Acceptance

Primaries could also choose to only accept TLS connections based on a Server Name Indication
(SNI) that was published only to their secondaries.

Toorop, et al.

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 9103

XFR over TLS

August 2021

Pros:

Reduces the number of accepted connections.

Cons:

As above. Also, this is not a recommended use of SNI. For SNIs sent in the clear, this
would still allow attackers passively observing traﬃc to potentially abuse this mechanism.
The use of Encrypted Client Hello

 may be of use here.

[TLS-ESNI]

A.4.  Transport-Speciﬁc Response Policies

Some primaries might rely on TSIG/SIG(0) combined with per-query, IP-based ACLs to
authenticate secondaries. In this case, the primary must accept all incoming TLS/TCP connections
and then apply a transport-speciﬁc response policy on a per-query basis.

[RFC7766]

 makes a general purpose distinction in the advice to clients about

As an aside, whilst
their usage of connections (between regular queries and zone transfers), this is not strict, and
nothing in the DNS protocol prevents using the same connection for both types of traﬃc. Hence,
a server cannot know the intention of any client that connects to it; it can only inspect the
messages it receives on such a connection and make per-query decisions about whether or not to
answer those queries.

Example policies a XoT server might implement are:

strict:

REFUSE all queries on TLS connections, except SOA and authorized XFR requests

moderate:

REFUSE all queries on TLS connections until one is received that is signed by a
recognized TSIG/SIG(0) key, then answer all queries on the connection after that

complex:

apply a heuristic to determine which queries on a TLS connections to REFUSE

relaxed:

answer all non-XoT queries on all TLS connections with the same policy applied to
TCP queries

Pros:

Allows for ﬂexible behavior by the server that could be changed over time.

Cons:

The server must handle the burden of accepting all TLS connections just to perform XFRs

with a small number of secondaries. Client behavior to a REFUSED response is not clearly
deﬁned (see Section 7.8). Currently, none of the major open-source implementations of a DNS
authoritative server oﬀer an option for diﬀerent response policies in diﬀerent transports (but
such functionality could potentially be implemented using a proxy).

A.4.1.  SNI-Based Response Policies

In a similar fashion, XoT servers might use the presence of an SNI in the Client Hello to
determine which response policy to initially apply to the TLS connections.

Pros:

This has the potential to allow a clean distinction between a XoT service and any future

DoT-based service for answering recursive queries.

Cons:

As above.

Toorop, et al.

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 9103

XFR over TLS

August 2021

Acknowledgements

The authors thank
other members of DPRIVE for review and discussions.

Tony Finch Benno Overeinder Shumon Huque Tim Wicinski
,

,

,

, and many

The authors particularly thank
open-source DNS implementers for valuable discussion and clariﬁcation on the issue associated
with pipelining XFR queries and handling out-of-order/intermingled responses.

Peter van Dijk Ondrej Sury Brian Dickson

, and several other

,

,

Contributors

Signiﬁcant contributions to the document were made by:

Han Zhang
Salesforce
San Francisco CA
United States of America
Email:

,

 hzhang@salesforce.com

Authors' Addresses

Willem Toorop
NLnet Labs
Science Park 400
1098 XH Amsterdam
Netherlands
Email:

 willem@nlnetlabs.nl

Sara Dickinson
Sinodun IT
Magdalen Centre
Oxford Science Park
Oxford
OX4 4GA
United Kingdom
Email:

 sara@sinodun.com

Shivan Sahib
Brave Software
Vancouver BC
Canada
Email:

 shivankaulsahib@gmail.com

Toorop, et al.

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 9103

XFR over TLS

August 2021

Pallavi Aras
Salesforce
Herndon VA
,
United States of America
Email:

 paras@salesforce.com

Allison Mankin
Salesforce
Herndon VA
,
United States of America
Email:

 allison.mankin@gmail.com

Toorop, et al.

Standards Track

Page 32

