Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9211
Standards Track
June 2022
2070-1721
M. Nottingham
Fastly

RFC 9211
The Cache-Status HTTP Response Header Field

Abstract

To aid debugging, HTTP caches often append header ﬁelds to a response, explaining how they
handled the request in an ad hoc manner. This speciﬁcation deﬁnes a standard mechanism to do
so that is aligned with HTTP's caching model.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

.
https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9211

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

Nottingham

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9211

Cache-Status Header

June 2022

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Notational Conventions

2.  The Cache-Status HTTP Response Header Field

2.1.  The hit Parameter

2.2.  The fwd Parameter

2.3.  The fwd-status Parameter

2.4.  The ttl Parameter

2.5.  The stored Parameter

2.6.  The collapsed Parameter

2.7.  The key Parameter

2.8.  The detail Parameter

3.  Examples

4.  Deﬁning New Cache-Status Parameters

5.  IANA Considerations

6.  Security Considerations

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

To aid debugging (both by humans and automated tools), HTTP caches often append header ﬁelds
to a response explaining how they handled the request. Unfortunately, the semantics of these
header ﬁelds are often unclear, and both the semantics and syntax used vary between
implementations.

This speciﬁcation deﬁnes a new HTTP response header ﬁeld, "Cache-Status", for this purpose with
standardized syntax and semantics.

Nottingham

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9211

Cache-Status Header

June 2022

1.1.  Notational Conventions

The key words "
", "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
", "
"
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

This document uses the following terminology from
syntax and parsing: List, String, Token, Integer, and Boolean.

Section 3 of [STRUCTURED-FIELDS]

 to specify

This document also uses terminology from

[HTTP]

 and

[HTTP-CACHING]

.

2.  The Cache-Status HTTP Response Header Field

The Cache-Status HTTP response header ﬁeld indicates how caches have handled that response
and its corresponding request. The syntax of this header ﬁeld conforms to
FIELDS]

[STRUCTURED-

.

Its value is a List. Each member of the List represents a cache that has handled the request. The
ﬁrst member represents the cache closest to the origin server, and the last member represents the
cache closest to the user (possibly including the user agent's cache itself if it appends a value).

Caches determine when it is appropriate to add the Cache-Status header ﬁeld to a response. Some
might add it to all responses, whereas others might only do so when speciﬁcally conﬁgured to, or
when the request contains a header ﬁeld that activates a debugging mode. See Section 6 for
related security considerations.

SHOULD NOT

 append a Cache-Status member to responses that it generates

An intermediary
locally, even if that intermediary contains a cache, unless the generated response is based upon a
stored response (e.g., 304 (Not Modiﬁed) and 206 (Partial Content) are both based upon a stored
response). For example, a proxy generating a 400 response due to a malformed request will not
add a Cache-Status value, because that response was generated by the proxy, not the origin server.

When adding a value to the Cache-Status header ﬁeld, caches
value, to allow debugging of the entire chain of caches handling the request.

SHOULD

 preserve the existing ﬁeld

Each List member identiﬁes the cache that inserted it, and this identiﬁer
Token. Depending on the deployment, this might be a product or service name (e.g.,
"ExampleCache" or "Example CDN"), a hostname ("cache-3.example.com"), an IP address, or a
generated string.

 be a String or

MUST

Each member of the list can have parameters that describe that cache's handling of the request.
While these parameters are
possible.

, caches are encouraged to provide as much information as

OPTIONAL

This speciﬁcation deﬁnes the following parameters.

Nottingham

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9211

Cache-Status Header

June 2022

2.1.  The hit Parameter

The value of "hit" is a Boolean that, when true, indicates that the request was satisﬁed by the
cache; that is, it was not forwarded, and the response was obtained from the cache.

A response that was originally produced by the origin but was modiﬁed by the cache (for
example, a 304 or 206 status code) is still considered a hit, as long as it did not go forward (e.g., for
validation).

A response that was in cache but not able to be used without going forward (e.g., because it was
stale or partial) is not considered a hit. Note that a stale response that is used without going
forward (e.g., because the origin server is not available) can be considered a hit.

"hit" and "fwd" are exclusive; only one of them should appear on each list member.

2.2.  The fwd Parameter

"fwd", when present, indicates that the request went forward towards the origin; its value is a
Token that indicates why.

The following parameter values are deﬁned to explain why the request went forward, from most
speciﬁc to least:

bypass:

The cache was conﬁgured to not handle this request.

method:

The request method's semantics require the request to be forwarded.

uri-miss:

The cache did not contain any responses that matched the request URI.

vary-miss:

The cache contained a response that matched the request URI, but it could not select

a response based upon this request's header ﬁelds and stored Vary header ﬁelds.

miss:

The cache did not contain any responses that could be used to satisfy this request (to be

used when an implementation cannot distinguish between uri-miss and vary-miss).

request:

The cache was able to select a fresh response for the request, but the request's

semantics (e.g., Cache-Control request directives) did not allow its use.

stale:

The cache was able to select a response for the request, but it was stale.

partial:

The cache was able to select a partial response for the request, but it did not contain all

of the requested ranges (or the request was for the complete response).

The most speciﬁc reason known to the cache
implement. See also

.
[HTTP-CACHING], Section 4

SHOULD

 be used, to the extent that it is possible to

Nottingham

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9211

Cache-Status Header

June 2022

2.3.  The fwd-status Parameter

The value of "fwd-status" is an Integer that indicates which status code (see
next-hop server returned in response to the forwarded request. The fwd-status parameter is only
meaningful when fwd is present. If fwd-status is not present but the fwd parameter is, it defaults
to the status code sent in the response.

[HTTP], Section 15

) the

This parameter is useful to distinguish cases when the next-hop server sends a 304 (Not Modiﬁed)
response to a conditional request or a 206 (Partial Content) response because of a range request.

2.4.  The ttl Parameter

The value of "ttl" is an Integer that indicates the response's remaining freshness lifetime (see
) as calculated by the cache, as an integer number of seconds,
[HTTP-CACHING], Section 4.2.1
measured as closely as possible to when the response header section is sent by the cache. This
includes freshness assigned by the cache through, for example, heuristics (see
Section 4.2.2

), local conﬁguration, or other factors. It may be negative, to indicate staleness.

[HTTP-CACHING],

2.5.  The stored Parameter

The value of "stored" is a Boolean that indicates whether the cache stored the response (see
[HTTP-CACHING], Section 3
); a true value indicates that it did. The stored parameter is only
meaningful when fwd is present.

2.6.  The collapsed Parameter

The value of "collapsed" is a Boolean that indicates whether this request was collapsed together
with one or more other forward requests (see
). If true, the response
was successfully reused; if not, a new request had to be made. If not present, the request was not
collapsed with others. The collapsed parameter is only meaningful when fwd is present.

[HTTP-CACHING], Section 4

2.7.  The key Parameter

The value of "key" is a String that conveys a representation of the cache key (see
CACHING], Section 2

) used for the response. Note that this may be implementation speciﬁc.

[HTTP-

2.8.  The detail Parameter

The value of "detail" is either a String or a Token that allows implementations to convey
additional information not captured in other parameters, such as implementation-speciﬁc states
or other caching-related metrics.

For example:

Cache-Status: ExampleCache; hit; detail=MEMORY

Nottingham

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9211

Cache-Status Header

June 2022

The semantics of a detail parameter are always speciﬁc to the cache that sent it; even if a details
parameter from another cache shares the same value, it might not mean the same thing.

This parameter is intentionally limited. If an implementation's developer or operator needs to
convey additional information in an interoperable fashion, they are encouraged to register
extension parameters (see Section 4) or deﬁne another header ﬁeld.

3.  Examples

The following is an example of a minimal cache hit:

Cache-Status: ExampleCache; hit

However, a polite cache will give some more information, e.g.:

Cache-Status: ExampleCache; hit; ttl=376

A stale hit just has negative freshness, as in this example:

Cache-Status: ExampleCache; hit; ttl=-412

Whereas this is an example of a complete miss:

Cache-Status: ExampleCache; fwd=uri-miss

This is an example of a miss that successfully validated on the backend server:

Cache-Status: ExampleCache; fwd=stale; fwd-status=304

This is an example of a miss that was collapsed with another request:

Cache-Status: ExampleCache; fwd=uri-miss; collapsed

This is an example of a miss that the cache attempted to collapse, but couldn't:

Cache-Status: ExampleCache; fwd=uri-miss; collapsed=?0

The following is an example of going through two separate layers of caching, where the cache
closest to the origin responded to an earlier request with a stored response, and a second cache
stored that response and later reused it to satisfy the current request:

Nottingham

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9211

Cache-Status Header

June 2022

Cache-Status: OriginCache; hit; ttl=1100,
              "CDN Company Here"; hit; ttl=545

The following is an example of going through a three-layer caching system, where the closest to
the origin is a reverse proxy (where the response was served from cache); the next is a forward
proxy interposed by the network (where the request was forwarded because there wasn't any
response cached with its URI, the request was collapsed with others, and the resulting response
was stored); and the closest to the user is a browser cache (where there wasn't any response
cached with the request's URI):

Cache-Status: ReverseProxyCache; hit
Cache-Status: ForwardProxyCache; fwd=uri-miss; collapsed; stored
Cache-Status: BrowserCache; fwd=uri-miss

4.  Deﬁning New Cache-Status Parameters

New Cache-Status parameters can be deﬁned by registering them in the "HTTP Cache-Status"
registry.

Registration requests are reviewed and approved by a designated expert, per
4.5

. A speciﬁcation document is appreciated but not required.

[RFC8126], Section

The expert(s) should consider the following factors when evaluating requests:

•

Community feedback

•

If the value is suﬃciently well deﬁned

•

Generic parameters are preferred over vendor-speciﬁc, application-speciﬁc, or deployment-
speciﬁc values. If a generic value cannot be agreed upon in the community, the parameter's
name should be correspondingly speciﬁc (e.g., with a preﬁx that identiﬁes the vendor,
application, or deployment).

Registration requests should use the following template:

Name:

[a name for the Cache-Status parameter's key; see

Section 3.1.2 of [STRUCTURED-FIELDS]

for syntactic requirements]

Type:

[the Structured Type of the parameter's value; see

Section 3.1.2 of [STRUCTURED-FIELDS]

]

Description:

[a description of the parameter's semantics]

Reference:

[to a speciﬁcation deﬁning this parameter, if available]

See the registry at
send registration requests.

<https://www.iana.org/assignments/http-cache-status>

 for details on where to

Nottingham

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9211

Cache-Status Header

June 2022

5.  IANA Considerations

IANA has created the "HTTP Cache-Status" registry at
cache-status>
procedures.

 and populated it with the types deﬁned in Section 2; see Section 4 for its associated

<https://www.iana.org/assignments/http-

IANA has added the following entry in the "Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) Field Name
Registry" deﬁned in

[HTTP], Section 18.4
:

Cache-Status

Field name:
Status:
Reference:

permanent

RFC 9211

6.  Security Considerations

Attackers can use the information in Cache-Status to probe the behavior of the cache (and other
components) and infer the activity of those using the cache. The Cache-Status header ﬁeld may
not create these risks on its own, but it can assist attackers in exploiting them.

For example, knowing if a cache has stored a response can help an attacker execute a timing
attack on sensitive data.

Additionally, exposing the cache key can help an attacker understand modiﬁcations to the cache
key, which may assist cache poisoning attacks. See

[ENTANGLE]

 for details.

The underlying risks can be mitigated with a variety of techniques (e.g., using encryption and
authentication and avoiding the inclusion of attacker-controlled data in the cache key),
depending on their exact nature. Note that merely obfuscating the key does not mitigate this risk.

To avoid assisting such attacks, the Cache-Status header ﬁeld can be omitted, only sent when the
client is authorized to receive it, or sent with sensitive information (e.g., the key parameter) only
when the client is authorized.

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[HTTP]

,

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
97 RFC 9110 DOI 10.17487/RFC9110
.
rfc9110>

,

,

, and
, June 2022,

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP Semantics" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

[HTTP-CACHING]

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.

,

, and

, June 2022,

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP Caching" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

,

98 RFC 9111 DOI 10.17487/RFC9111
.
rfc9111>

,

Nottingham

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9211

Cache-Status Header

June 2022

[RFC2119]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
,
rfc2119>
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>
.

, and

,

,

,

,

, June

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
,
rfc8174>
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

[STRUCTURED-FIELDS]

Nottingham, M.

 and
RFC 8941 DOI 10.17487/RFC8941
,
.
rfc8941>

P-H. Kamp "Structured Field Values for HTTP"
,
, February 2021,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

7.2.  Informative References

[ENTANGLE]

,

, September
Kettle, J. "Web Cache Entanglement: Novel Pathways to Poisoning"
<https://portswigger.net/research/web-cache-entanglement>
2020,
.

Author's Address

Mark Nottingham
Fastly
Prahran
Australia
Email:
URI:

 mnot@mnot.net
 https://www.mnot.net/

Nottingham

Standards Track

Page 9

