Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9814
Standards Track
July 2025
2070-1721
R. Housley
Vigil Security

S. Fluhrer
Cisco Systems

P. Kampanakis
Amazon Web Services

B. Westerbaan
Cloudflare

RFC 9814
Use of the SLH-DSA Signature Algorithm in the
Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS)

Abstract

SLH-DSA is a stateless hash-based signature algorithm. This document specifies the conventions
for using the SLH-DSA signature algorithm with the Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS). In
addition, the algorithm identifier and public key syntax are provided.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9814
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Housley, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9814

SLH-DSA Signature Algorithm in CMS

July 2025

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  ASN.1

1.2.  Motivation

1.3.  Terminology

2.  SLH-DSA Hash-Based Signature Algorithm Overview

3.  SLH-DSA Public Key Identifier

4.  Signed-Data Conventions

5.  Security Considerations

6.  Operational Considerations

7.  IANA Considerations

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

8.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  ASN.1 Module

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

2

3

3

3

3

4

7

9

10

11

11

11

12

13

17

17

This document specifies the conventions for using the SLH-DSA hash-based signature algorithm
[FIPS205]

 with the Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS)

 signed-data content type.

[RFC5652]

SLH-DSA offers two signature modes: pure mode and pre-hash mode. SLH-DSA signature
operations include a context string as input. The context string has a maximum length of 255
bytes. By default, the context string is the empty string. This document only specifies the use of
pure mode with an empty context string for the CMS signed-data content type.

SLH-DSA offers three security levels. The parameters for each of the security levels were chosen
to provide 128 bits of security, 192 bits of security, and 256 bits of security. Separate algorithm
identifiers have been assigned for SLH-DSA at each of these security levels.

Housley, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9814

SLH-DSA Signature Algorithm in CMS

July 2025

SLH-DSA is a stateless hash-based signature algorithm. Other hash-based signature algorithms
are stateful, including Hierarchical Signature System (HSS) / Leighton-Micali Signatures (LMS)
[RFC8554]
kept by the signer, SLH-DSA is much less fragile than the stateful hash-based signature
algorithms.

 and eXtended Merkle Signature Scheme (XMSS)

. Without the need for state

[RFC8391]

1.1.  ASN.1

CMS values are generated with ASN.1
Distinguished Encoding Rules (DER)

[X680]
[X690]
.

 using the Basic Encoding Rules (BER) and the

1.2.  Motivation

There have been recent advances in cryptanalysis and advances in the development of quantum
computers. Each of these advances pose a threat to widely deployed digital signature algorithms.

If Cryptographically Relevant Quantum Computers (CRQCs) are ever built, they will be able to
break many of the public key cryptosystems currently in use, including RSA, DSA, Elliptic Curve
Digital Signature Algorithm (ECDSA), and Edwards-curve Digital Signature Algorithm (EdDSA). A
Post-Quantum Cryptosystem (PQC) is secure against quantum computers that have more than a
trivial number of quantum bits (qu-bits). It is open to conjecture when it will be feasible to build
such quantum computers; however, it is prudent to use cryptographic algorithms that remain
secure if a CRQC is invented. SLH-DSA is a PQC signature algorithm.

1.3.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  SLH-DSA Hash-Based Signature Algorithm Overview

SLH-DSA is a stateless hash-based signature algorithm. SLH-DSA makes use of a few-time
signature construction (Forest of Random Subsets (FORS)) and a hypertree. FORS signs a
message with a private key. The corresponding FORS public keys are the leaves in k binary trees.
The roots of these trees are hashed together to form a FORS root. SLH-DSA uses a one-time
signature scheme called Winternitz One-Time Signature Plus (WOTS+). The FORS tree roots are
signed by a WOTS+ private key. The corresponding WOTS+ public keys form the leaves in d-
layers of Merkle subtrees in the SLH-DSA hypertree. The bottom layer of that hypertree signs the
FORS roots with WOTS+.  The roots of the bottom Merkle subtrees are then signed with WOTS+
and the corresponding WOTS+ public keys form the leaves of the next-level-up subtree. Subtree
roots are consequently signed by their corresponding subtree layers until the top subtree is
reached. The top-layer subtree forms the hypertree root, which is trusted at the verifier.

Housley, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9814

SLH-DSA Signature Algorithm in CMS

July 2025

An SLH-DSA signature consists of the randomization string, the FORS signature, the WOTS+
signature in each layer, and the path to the root of each subtree until the root of the hypertree is
reached.

An SLH-DSA signature is verified using the FORS signature, the WOTS+ signatures, and the path
to the root of each subtree. When reaching the root of the hypertree, the signature verifies only
if it hashes to the pre-trusted root of the SLH-DSA hypertree.

SLH-DSA is a stateless hash-based signature algorithm. Stateful hash-based signature schemes
require that the WOTS+ private key (generated by using a state index) never be reused or the
scheme loses its security. FORS is used at the bottom of the SLH-DSA hypertree. Security
decreases if the same private key is used to sign two or more different messages, but security
does not collapse, as is the case in stateful hash-based signature algorithms. Without the need
for state kept by the signer to ensure it is not reused, SLH-DSA is much less fragile.

SLH-DSA was designed to sign up to 264 messages and offers three security levels. The
parameters of the SLH-DSA hypertree include the security parameter, the hash function, the tree
height, the number of layers of subtrees, the Winternitz parameter of WOTS+, and the number of
FORS trees and leaves in each. The parameters for each of the security levels were chosen to be
at least as secure as a generic block cipher of 128, 192, or 256 bits.

3.  SLH-DSA Public Key Identifier

 use one of the twelve id-slh-dsa object
The AlgorithmIdentifier for an SLH-DSA public key
identifiers listed below, based on the security level used to generate the SLH-DSA hypertree, the
small or fast version of the algorithm, and the use of SHA2
example, id-slh-dsa-shake-256s represents the 256-bit security level, the small version of the
algorithm, and the use of SHAKE256. The parameters field of the AlgorithmIdentifier for the SLH-
DSA public key

 or SHAKE

 be absent.

[FIPS202]

[FIPS180]

MUST

MUST

. For

Housley, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9814

SLH-DSA Signature Algorithm in CMS

July 2025

   nistAlgorithms OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { joint-iso-itu-t(2)
     country(16) us(840) organization(1) gov(101) csor(3) 4 }

   sigAlgs OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { nistAlgorithms 3 }

   id-slh-dsa-sha2-128s OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { sigAlgs 20 }

   id-slh-dsa-sha2-128f OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { sigAlgs 21 }

   id-slh-dsa-sha2-192s OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { sigAlgs 22 }

   id-slh-dsa-sha2-192f OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { sigAlgs 23 }

   id-slh-dsa-sha2-256s OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { sigAlgs 24 }

   id-slh-dsa-sha2-256f OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { sigAlgs 25 }

   id-slh-dsa-shake-128s OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { sigAlgs 26 }

   id-slh-dsa-shake-128f OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { sigAlgs 27 }

   id-slh-dsa-shake-192s OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { sigAlgs 28 }

   id-slh-dsa-shake-192f OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { sigAlgs 29 }

   id-slh-dsa-shake-256s OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { sigAlgs 30 }

   id-slh-dsa-shake-256f OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { sigAlgs 31 }

When this AlgorithmIdentifier appears in the SubjectPublicKeyInfo field of an X.509 certificate
[RFC5280]
MAY
keyCertSign, and cRLSign; the certificate key usage extension

 contain digitalSignature, nonRepudiation,
 contain other values.

, the certificate key usage extension

MUST NOT

Housley, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9814

SLH-DSA Signature Algorithm in CMS

July 2025

   pk-slh-dsa-sha2-128s PUBLIC-KEY ::= {
       IDENTIFIER id-slh-dsa-sha2-128s
       -- KEY no ASN.1 wrapping --
       CERT-KEY-USAGE
         { digitalSignature, nonRepudiation, keyCertSign, cRLSign }
       -- PRIVATE-KEY no ASN.1 wrapping -- }

   pk-slh-dsa-sha2-128f PUBLIC-KEY ::= {
       IDENTIFIER id-slh-dsa-sha2-128f
       -- KEY no ASN.1 wrapping --
       CERT-KEY-USAGE
         { digitalSignature, nonRepudiation, keyCertSign, cRLSign }
       -- PRIVATE-KEY no ASN.1 wrapping -- }

   pk-slh-dsa-sha2-192s PUBLIC-KEY ::= {
       IDENTIFIER id-slh-dsa-sha2-192s
       -- KEY no ASN.1 wrapping --
       CERT-KEY-USAGE
         { digitalSignature, nonRepudiation, keyCertSign, cRLSign }
       -- PRIVATE-KEY no ASN.1 wrapping -- }

   pk-slh-dsa-sha2-192f PUBLIC-KEY ::= {
       IDENTIFIER id-slh-dsa-sha2-192f
       -- KEY no ASN.1 wrapping --
       CERT-KEY-USAGE
         { digitalSignature, nonRepudiation, keyCertSign, cRLSign }
       -- PRIVATE-KEY no ASN.1 wrapping -- }

   pk-slh-dsa-sha2-256s PUBLIC-KEY ::= {
       IDENTIFIER id-slh-dsa-sha2-256s
       -- KEY no ASN.1 wrapping --
       CERT-KEY-USAGE
         { digitalSignature, nonRepudiation, keyCertSign, cRLSign }
       -- PRIVATE-KEY no ASN.1 wrapping -- }

   pk-slh-dsa-sha2-256f PUBLIC-KEY ::= {
       IDENTIFIER id-slh-dsa-sha2-256f
       -- KEY no ASN.1 wrapping --
       CERT-KEY-USAGE
         { digitalSignature, nonRepudiation, keyCertSign, cRLSign }
       -- PRIVATE-KEY no ASN.1 wrapping -- }

   pk-slh-dsa-shake-128s PUBLIC-KEY ::= {
       IDENTIFIER id-slh-dsa-shake-128s
       -- KEY no ASN.1 wrapping --
       CERT-KEY-USAGE
         { digitalSignature, nonRepudiation, keyCertSign, cRLSign }
       -- PRIVATE-KEY no ASN.1 wrapping -- }

   pk-slh-dsa-shake-128f PUBLIC-KEY ::= {
       IDENTIFIER id-slh-dsa-shake-128f
       -- KEY no ASN.1 wrapping --
       CERT-KEY-USAGE
         { digitalSignature, nonRepudiation, keyCertSign, cRLSign }
       -- PRIVATE-KEY no ASN.1 wrapping -- }

   pk-slh-dsa-shake-192s PUBLIC-KEY ::= {

Housley, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9814

SLH-DSA Signature Algorithm in CMS

July 2025

       IDENTIFIER id-slh-dsa-shake-192s
       -- KEY no ASN.1 wrapping --
       CERT-KEY-USAGE
         { digitalSignature, nonRepudiation, keyCertSign, cRLSign }
       -- PRIVATE-KEY no ASN.1 wrapping -- }

   pk-slh-dsa-shake-192f PUBLIC-KEY ::= {
       IDENTIFIER id-slh-dsa-shake-192f
       -- KEY no ASN.1 wrapping --
       CERT-KEY-USAGE
         { digitalSignature, nonRepudiation, keyCertSign, cRLSign }
       -- PRIVATE-KEY no ASN.1 wrapping -- }

   pk-slh-dsa-shake-256s PUBLIC-KEY ::= {
       IDENTIFIER id-slh-dsa-shake-256s
       -- KEY no ASN.1 wrapping --
       CERT-KEY-USAGE
         { digitalSignature, nonRepudiation, keyCertSign, cRLSign }
       -- PRIVATE-KEY no ASN.1 wrapping -- }

   pk-slh-dsa-shake-256f PUBLIC-KEY ::= {
       IDENTIFIER id-slh-dsa-shake-256f
       -- KEY no ASN.1 wrapping --
       CERT-KEY-USAGE
         { digitalSignature, nonRepudiation, keyCertSign, cRLSign }
       -- PRIVATE-KEY no ASN.1 wrapping -- }

   SLH-DSA-PublicKey ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (32 | 48 | 64))

   SLH-DSA-PrivateKey ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (64 | 96 | 128))

No additional encoding of the SLH-DSA public key is applied in the SubjectPublicKeyInfo field of
an X.509 certificate

[RFC5280]
.

No additional encoding of the SLH-DSA private key is applied in the PrivateKeyInfo field of the
privateKey field of the OneAsymmetricKey type of an Asymmetric Key Package

[RFC5958]
.

When an SLH-DSA public key appears outside of a SubjectPublicKeyInfo type in an environment
that uses ASN.1 encoding, the SLH-DSA public key can be encoded as an OCTET STRING by using
the SLH-DSA-PublicKey type.

When an SLH-DSA private key appears outside of an Asymmetric Key Package in an
environment that uses ASN.1 encoding, the SLH-DSA private key can be encoded as an OCTET
STRING by using the SLH-DSA-PrivateKey type.

4.  Signed-Data Conventions

As specified in CMS
signer's private key. The signature is computed over different values depending on whether
signed attributes are absent or present.

, the digital signature is produced from the message digest and the

[RFC5652]

Housley, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9814

SLH-DSA Signature Algorithm in CMS

July 2025

When signed attributes are absent, the SLH-DSA (pure mode) signature is computed over the
content. When signed attributes are present, a hash
signed attributes using the same hash function that is used in the SLH-DSA tree. The signed
attributes
digest attribute contains the hash value of the content. The SLH-DSA signature is computed over
the DER encoding of the set of signed attributes. The SLH-DSA signature-generation operation is
called slh_sign; see Section 10.2.1 of

 include a content-type attribute and a message-digest attribute. The message-

 be computed over the DER-encoded

. In summary:

[FIPS205]

SHOULD

MUST

   IF (signed attributes are absent)
   THEN slh_sign(content)
   ELSE signed attributes message-digest attribute = Hash(content);
        slh_sign(DER(SignedAttributes))

In some implementations, performance may be significantly improved by signing and verifying
DER(SignedAttributes) when the content is large. That is, passing an entire large message
content to the signing function or the signature validation function can have an impact on
performance. When the signed attributes are present,
 requires the
inclusion of the content-type attribute and the message-digest attribute. Other attributes can also
be included.

Section 5.3 of [RFC5652]

When using SLH-DSA and signed attributes are present in the SignerInfo, the digestAlgorithms
field in the SignedData
MUST
compute the message digest.

 include the identifier for the one-way hash function used to

When using SLH-DSA, the fields in the SignerInfo are used as follows:

digestAlgorithm:

MUST

SHOULD

 match the hash function used in the SLH-DSA

 identify a one-way hash function. When signed attributes are

The digestAlgorithm
absent, the digestAlgorithm identifier
tree (as shown in the list below). The digestAlgorithm does not have any significance when
signed attributes are absent as it is not used to pre-hash the message. When there is a
concern for failures with legacy implementations that do not support all hash functions,
signers
 choose to always use the SHA-256 algorithm identifier as the digestAlgorithm
when signed attributes are absent. When signed attributes are present, to ensure collision
resistance, the identified hash function
size of the hash function used in the SLH-DSA tree. The hash functions defined in
and

 produce a hash value that is at least twice the
[FIPS180]

 be supported for use with the variants of SLH-DSA as shown below:

[FIPS202] MUST

MUST

MAY

Housley, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9814

SLH-DSA Signature Algorithm in CMS

July 2025

      id-slh-dsa-sha2-128s:  SHA-256
      id-slh-dsa-sha2-128f:  SHA-256
      id-slh-dsa-sha2-192s:  SHA-512
      id-slh-dsa-sha2-192f:  SHA-512
      id-slh-dsa-sha2-256s:  SHA-512
      id-slh-dsa-sha2-256f:  SHA-512
      id-slh-dsa-shake-128s: SHAKE128 with 256-bit output
      id-slh-dsa-shake-128f: SHAKE128 with 256-bit output
      id-slh-dsa-shake-192s: SHAKE256 with 512-bit output
      id-slh-dsa-shake-192f: SHAKE256 with 512-bit output
      id-slh-dsa-shake-256s: SHAKE256 with 512-bit output
      id-slh-dsa-shake-256f: SHAKE256 with 512-bit output

The object identifiers for SHA-256 and SHA-512 are included in
identifiers for SHAKE128 and SHAKE256 are included in
AlgorithmIdentifier

 include parameters.

SHOULD NOT

[RFC5754]

. The object

[RFC8702]

. In all four cases, the

signatureAlgorithm:

The signatureAlgorithm
algorithm parameters field
following:

MUST

 contain one of the SLH-DSA algorithm identifiers, and the
 be one of the

 be absent. The algorithm identifier

MUST

MUST

      id-slh-dsa-sha2-128s,  id-slh-dsa-sha2-128f,
      id-slh-dsa-sha2-192s,  id-slh-dsa-sha2-192f,
      id-slh-dsa-sha2-256s,  id-slh-dsa-sha2-256f,
      id-slh-dsa-shake-128s, id-slh-dsa-shake-128f,
      id-slh-dsa-shake-192s, id-slh-dsa-shake-192f,
      id-slh-dsa-shake-256s, id-slh-dsa-shake-256f.

signature:

The signature contains the signature value resulting from the SLH-DSA signing operation
with the parameters associated with the selected signatureAlgorithm. The SLH-DSA signature-
generation operation is specified in Section 10.2.1 of
, and the SLH-DSA signature
verification operation is specified in Section 10.3 of
. Signature verification
MUST
include checking that the signatureAlgorithm field identifies SLH-DSA parameters that are
consistent with public key used to validate the signature.

[FIPS205]
[FIPS205]

5.  Security Considerations

Implementations
the ability to forge signatures.

MUST

 protect the private keys. Compromise of the private keys may result in

When generating an SLH-DSA key pair, an implementation
independently of all other key pairs in the SLH-DSA hypertree.

MUST

 generate each key pair

A SLH-DSA tree

MUST NOT

 be used for more than 264 signing operations.

Housley, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9814

SLH-DSA Signature Algorithm in CMS

July 2025

The generation of private keys relies on random numbers. The use of inadequate Pseudorandom
Number Generators (PRNGs) to generate these values can result in little or no security. An
attacker may find it much easier to reproduce the PRNG environment that produced the keys,
searching the resulting small set of possibilities, rather than brute-force searching the whole key
space. The generation of quality random numbers is difficult, and
guidance in this area.

 offers important

[RFC4086]

To avoid algorithm-substitution attacks, the CMSAlgorithmProtection attribute defined in
[RFC6211] SHOULD

 be included in signed attributes.

Implementers should consider their particular use cases and may choose to implement optional
fault-attack countermeasures
. Verifying a signature before releasing the
signature value is a typical fault-attack countermeasure; however, this countermeasure is not
. Redundancy by replicating the signature-generation process
effective for SLH-DSA
be used as an effective fault-attack countermeasure for SLH-DSA
; however, the SLH-
DSA signature generation is already considered slow.

[CMP2018] [Ge2023]

[Ge2023]

[Ge2023]

MAY

Likewise, implementers should consider their particular use cases and may choose to implement
protections against passive power and emissions side-channel attacks

[SLotH]
.

6.  Operational Considerations

If slh_sign is implemented in a hardware device such as Hardware Security Module (HSM) or
portable cryptographic token, implementations can avoid sending the full content to the device.
By including signed attributes, which necessarily include the message-digest attribute and the
content-type attribute as described in
, the much smaller set of signed
attributes are sent to the device for signing.

Section 5.3 of [RFC5652]

By including signed attributes in the SignerInfo, one can obtain similar interface characteristics
to SLH-DSA in pre-hash mode. With pre-hash mode, the hash of the content is passed to the SLH-
DSA signature operation instead of the full message content. By including signed attributes in
the SignerInfo, a relatively small to-be-signed value is passed to the SLH-DSA signature
operation. For this reason, SLH-DSA pre-hash mode is not specified for use with the CMS
SignedData. Note SLH-DSA pre-hash mode always yields a different signature value than SLH-
DSA pure mode, even if the to-be-signed content is the same.

When using SLH-DSA in pure mode, it is not possible to single-pass process the content to verify
a SignedData message that does not contain signed attributes. To assist recipients that might
 include signed attributes within any
make use of stream-based APIs, implementers
SignerInfo that uses SLH-DSA as signature algorithm. Doing so allows the recipient
implementation to avoid keeping the signed content in memory. Recall that when signed
attributes are present, they
attribute, and they
SHOULD

MUST
 contain a CMSAlgorithmProtection attribute.

 contain a content-type attribute and a message-digest

SHOULD

Housley, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9814

SLH-DSA Signature Algorithm in CMS

July 2025

7.  IANA Considerations

For the ASN.1 Module in Appendix A, IANA has assigned an Object Identifier (OID) for the
module identifier (81) with a Description of "id-mod-slh-dsa-2024". The OID for the module has
been allocated in the "SMI Security for S/MIME Module Identifier (1.2.840.113549.1.9.16.0)"
registry.

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

[FIPS180]

[FIPS202]

[FIPS205]

[RFC2119]

[RFC5280]

[RFC5652]

[RFC5754]

[RFC5958]

[RFC6211]

National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) "Secure Hash Standard
(SHS)" NIST FIPS 180-4 DOI 10.6028/NIST.FIPS.180-4
doi.org/10.6028/NIST.FIPS.180-4>

, August 2015,

<https://

,

,

,

.

National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) "SHA-3 Standard:
Permutation-Based Hash and Extendable-Output Functions" NIST FIPS 202 DOI
10.6028/NIST.FIPS.202

<https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.FIPS.202>

, August 2015,

,
.

,

,

National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) "Stateless Hash-Based
Digital Signature Standard" NIST FIPS 205 DOI 10.6028/NIST.FIPS.205
August 2024,

<https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.FIPS.205>

, 13

,

,

,

.

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

,

Cooper, D. Santesson, S. Farrell, S. Boeyen, S. Housley, R.
"Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certificate and Certificate Revocation
List (CRL) Profile" RFC 5280 DOI 10.17487/RFC5280
editor.org/info/rfc5280>

, May 2008,

<https://www.rfc-

W. Polk

, and

,

,

,

,

,

.

Housley, R. "Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS)" STD 70 RFC 5652 DOI
10.17487/RFC5652

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5652>

, September 2009,

,

,

,

,

.

,

Turner, S. "Using SHA2 Algorithms with Cryptographic Message Syntax" RFC
5754 DOI 10.17487/RFC5754
,
rfc5754>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, January 2010,

,

.

Turner, S. "Asymmetric Key Packages" RFC 5958 DOI 10.17487/RFC5958
2010,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5958>

,

,

,

.

, August

,

Schaad, J. "Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS) Algorithm Identifier
Protection Attribute" RFC 6211 DOI 10.17487/RFC6211
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6211>

, April 2011,

,

.

<https://

Housley, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9814

SLH-DSA Signature Algorithm in CMS

July 2025

[RFC8174]

[RFC8702]

[X680]

[X690]

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

 and

Kampanakis, P.
Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS)" RFC 8702 DOI 10.17487/RFC8702
2020,

Q. Dang "Use of the SHAKE One-Way Hash Functions in the
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8702>

, January

,

,

.

,

ITU-T "Information technology -- Abstract Syntax Notation One (ASN.1):
Specification of basic notation" ITU-T Recommendation X.680 ISO/IEC
8824-1:2021

<https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.680>

, February 2021,

,

,

.

,

ITU-T "Information technology -- ASN.1 encoding rules: Specification of Basic
Encoding Rules (BER), Canonical Encoding Rules (CER) and Distinguished
Encoding Rules (DER)" ITU-T Recommendation X.690 ISO/IEC 8825-1-2021
February 2021,

<https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.690>

,
.

,

,

8.2.  Informative References

[CMP2018]

[Ge2023]

[RFC4086]

[RFC5911]

[RFC8391]

[RFC8554]

[SLotH]

T. Prest "Grafting Trees: A Fault Attack Against

, and

Castelnovi, L. Martinelli, A.
,
the SPHINCS Framework" Post-Quantum Cryptography (PQCrypto 2018),
,
Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 10786, pp. 165-184 DOI
10.1007/978-3-319-79063-3_8
, 2018,
10.1007/978-3-319-79063-3_8>

<https://link.springer.com/chapter/

,

,

.

,

Genêt, A. "On Protecting SPHINCS+ Against Fault Attacks" IACR Transactions
on Cryptographic Hardware and Embedded Systems, vol. 2023, no. 2, pp. 80-114
DOI 10.46586/tches.v2023.i2.80-114
TCHES/article/view/10278/9726>

<https://tches.iacr.org/index.php/

, 2023,

,

.

,

,

Eastlake 3rd, D. Schiller, J.
Security" BCP 106 RFC 4086 DOI 10.17487/RFC4086
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4086>

, and
,

,

,

.

S. Crocker "Randomness Requirements for

,

, June 2005,

<https://

J. Schaad "New ASN.1 Modules for Cryptographic Message

 and

Hoffman, P.
Syntax (CMS) and S/MIME" RFC 5911 DOI 10.17487/RFC5911
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5911>

, June 2010,

,

,

,

.

<https://

,

Huelsing, A. Butin, D. Gazdag, S. Rijneveld, J.
,
eXtended Merkle Signature Scheme" RFC 8391 DOI 10.17487/RFC8391
2018,

, and
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8391>
.

A. Mohaisen "XMSS:

,

,

,

, May

McGrew, D. Curcio, M.
,
RFC 8554 DOI 10.17487/RFC8554
rfc8554>

, and

,
.

,
, April 2019,

S. Fluhrer "Leighton-Micali Hash-Based Signatures"
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

Saarinen, M.-J. "Accelerating SLH-DSA by Two Orders of Magnitude with a
Single Hash Unit" Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2024/367
eprint.iacr.org/2024/367.pdf>
.

, 2024,

<https://

,

Housley, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9814

SLH-DSA Signature Algorithm in CMS

July 2025

Appendix A.  ASN.1 Module

This ASN.1 Module builds upon the conventions established in

[RFC5911]
.

<CODE BEGINS>
SLH-DSA-Module-2024
  { iso(1) member-body(2) us(840) rsadsi(113549) pkcs(1) pkcs9(9)
    id-smime(16) id-mod(0) id-mod-slh-dsa-2024(81) }

DEFINITIONS IMPLICIT TAGS ::= BEGIN

EXPORTS ALL;

IMPORTS
  PUBLIC-KEY, SIGNATURE-ALGORITHM, SMIME-CAPS
    FROM AlgorithmInformation-2009  -- in [RFC5911]
    { iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1)
      security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) id-mod(0)
      id-mod-algorithmInformation-02(58) } ;

--
-- Object Identifiers
--

nistAlgorithms OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { joint-iso-itu-t(2)
  country(16) us(840) organization(1) gov(101) csor(3) 4 }

sigAlgs OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { nistAlgorithms 3 }

id-slh-dsa-sha2-128s OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { sigAlgs 20 }

id-slh-dsa-sha2-128f OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { sigAlgs 21 }

id-slh-dsa-sha2-192s OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { sigAlgs 22 }

id-slh-dsa-sha2-192f OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { sigAlgs 23 }

id-slh-dsa-sha2-256s OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { sigAlgs 24 }

id-slh-dsa-sha2-256f OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { sigAlgs 25 }

id-slh-dsa-shake-128s OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { sigAlgs 26 }

id-slh-dsa-shake-128f OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { sigAlgs 27 }

id-slh-dsa-shake-192s OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { sigAlgs 28 }

id-slh-dsa-shake-192f OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { sigAlgs 29 }

id-slh-dsa-shake-256s OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { sigAlgs 30 }

id-slh-dsa-shake-256f OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { sigAlgs 31 }

--
-- Signature Algorithm, Public Key, and Private Key

Housley, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9814

SLH-DSA Signature Algorithm in CMS

July 2025

--

sa-slh-dsa-sha2-128s SIGNATURE-ALGORITHM ::= {
    IDENTIFIER id-slh-dsa-sha2-128s
    PARAMS ARE absent
    PUBLIC-KEYS { pk-slh-dsa-sha2-128s }
    SMIME-CAPS { IDENTIFIED BY id-slh-dsa-sha2-128s } }

sa-slh-dsa-sha2-128f SIGNATURE-ALGORITHM ::= {
    IDENTIFIER id-slh-dsa-sha2-128f
    PARAMS ARE absent
    PUBLIC-KEYS { pk-slh-dsa-sha2-128f }
    SMIME-CAPS { IDENTIFIED BY id-slh-dsa-sha2-128f } }

sa-slh-dsa-sha2-192s SIGNATURE-ALGORITHM ::= {
    IDENTIFIER id-slh-dsa-sha2-192s
    PARAMS ARE absent
    PUBLIC-KEYS { pk-slh-dsa-sha2-192s }
    SMIME-CAPS { IDENTIFIED BY id-slh-dsa-sha2-192s } }

sa-slh-dsa-sha2-192f SIGNATURE-ALGORITHM ::= {
    IDENTIFIER id-slh-dsa-sha2-192f
    PARAMS ARE absent
    PUBLIC-KEYS { pk-slh-dsa-sha2-192f }
    SMIME-CAPS { IDENTIFIED BY id-slh-dsa-sha2-192f } }

sa-slh-dsa-sha2-256s SIGNATURE-ALGORITHM ::= {
    IDENTIFIER id-slh-dsa-sha2-256s
    PARAMS ARE absent
    PUBLIC-KEYS { pk-slh-dsa-sha2-256s }
    SMIME-CAPS { IDENTIFIED BY id-slh-dsa-sha2-256s } }

sa-slh-dsa-sha2-256f SIGNATURE-ALGORITHM ::= {
    IDENTIFIER id-slh-dsa-sha2-256f
    PARAMS ARE absent
    PUBLIC-KEYS { pk-slh-dsa-sha2-256f }
    SMIME-CAPS { IDENTIFIED BY id-slh-dsa-sha2-256f } }

sa-slh-dsa-shake-128s SIGNATURE-ALGORITHM ::= {
    IDENTIFIER id-slh-dsa-shake-128s
    PARAMS ARE absent
    PUBLIC-KEYS { pk-slh-dsa-shake-128s }
    SMIME-CAPS { IDENTIFIED BY id-slh-dsa-shake-128s } }

sa-slh-dsa-shake-128f SIGNATURE-ALGORITHM ::= {
    IDENTIFIER id-slh-dsa-shake-128f
    PARAMS ARE absent
    PUBLIC-KEYS { pk-slh-dsa-shake-128f }
    SMIME-CAPS { IDENTIFIED BY id-slh-dsa-shake-128f } }

sa-slh-dsa-shake-192s SIGNATURE-ALGORITHM ::= {
    IDENTIFIER id-slh-dsa-shake-192s
    PARAMS ARE absent
    PUBLIC-KEYS { pk-slh-dsa-shake-192s }
    SMIME-CAPS { IDENTIFIED BY id-slh-dsa-shake-192s } }

sa-slh-dsa-shake-192f SIGNATURE-ALGORITHM ::= {
    IDENTIFIER id-slh-dsa-shake-192f

Housley, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9814

SLH-DSA Signature Algorithm in CMS

July 2025

    PARAMS ARE absent
    PUBLIC-KEYS { pk-slh-dsa-shake-192f }
    SMIME-CAPS { IDENTIFIED BY id-slh-dsa-shake-192f } }

sa-slh-dsa-shake-256s SIGNATURE-ALGORITHM ::= {
    IDENTIFIER id-slh-dsa-shake-256s
    PARAMS ARE absent
    PUBLIC-KEYS { pk-slh-dsa-shake-256s }
    SMIME-CAPS { IDENTIFIED BY id-slh-dsa-shake-256s } }

sa-slh-dsa-shake-256f SIGNATURE-ALGORITHM ::= {
    IDENTIFIER id-slh-dsa-shake-256f
    PARAMS ARE absent
    PUBLIC-KEYS { pk-slh-dsa-shake-256f }
    SMIME-CAPS { IDENTIFIED BY id-slh-dsa-shake-256f } }

pk-slh-dsa-sha2-128s PUBLIC-KEY ::= {
    IDENTIFIER id-slh-dsa-sha2-128s
    -- KEY no ASN.1 wrapping --
    CERT-KEY-USAGE
      { digitalSignature, nonRepudiation, keyCertSign, cRLSign }
    -- PRIVATE-KEY no ASN.1 wrapping -- }

pk-slh-dsa-sha2-128f PUBLIC-KEY ::= {
    IDENTIFIER id-slh-dsa-sha2-128f
    -- KEY no ASN.1 wrapping --
    CERT-KEY-USAGE
      { digitalSignature, nonRepudiation, keyCertSign, cRLSign }
    -- PRIVATE-KEY no ASN.1 wrapping -- }

pk-slh-dsa-sha2-192s PUBLIC-KEY ::= {
    IDENTIFIER id-slh-dsa-sha2-192s
    -- KEY no ASN.1 wrapping --
    CERT-KEY-USAGE
      { digitalSignature, nonRepudiation, keyCertSign, cRLSign }
    -- PRIVATE-KEY no ASN.1 wrapping -- }

pk-slh-dsa-sha2-192f PUBLIC-KEY ::= {
    IDENTIFIER id-slh-dsa-sha2-192f
    -- KEY no ASN.1 wrapping --
    CERT-KEY-USAGE
      { digitalSignature, nonRepudiation, keyCertSign, cRLSign }
    -- PRIVATE-KEY no ASN.1 wrapping -- }

pk-slh-dsa-sha2-256s PUBLIC-KEY ::= {
    IDENTIFIER id-slh-dsa-sha2-256s
    -- KEY no ASN.1 wrapping --
    CERT-KEY-USAGE
      { digitalSignature, nonRepudiation, keyCertSign, cRLSign }
    -- PRIVATE-KEY no ASN.1 wrapping -- }

pk-slh-dsa-sha2-256f PUBLIC-KEY ::= {
    IDENTIFIER id-slh-dsa-sha2-256f
    -- KEY no ASN.1 wrapping --
    CERT-KEY-USAGE
      { digitalSignature, nonRepudiation, keyCertSign, cRLSign }
    -- PRIVATE-KEY no ASN.1 wrapping -- }

Housley, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9814

SLH-DSA Signature Algorithm in CMS

July 2025

pk-slh-dsa-shake-128s PUBLIC-KEY ::= {
    IDENTIFIER id-slh-dsa-shake-128s
    -- KEY no ASN.1 wrapping --
    CERT-KEY-USAGE
      { digitalSignature, nonRepudiation, keyCertSign, cRLSign }
    -- PRIVATE-KEY no ASN.1 wrapping -- }

pk-slh-dsa-shake-128f PUBLIC-KEY ::= {
    IDENTIFIER id-slh-dsa-shake-128f
    -- KEY no ASN.1 wrapping --
    CERT-KEY-USAGE
      { digitalSignature, nonRepudiation, keyCertSign, cRLSign }
    -- PRIVATE-KEY no ASN.1 wrapping -- }

pk-slh-dsa-shake-192s PUBLIC-KEY ::= {
    IDENTIFIER id-slh-dsa-shake-192s
    -- KEY no ASN.1 wrapping --
    CERT-KEY-USAGE
      { digitalSignature, nonRepudiation, keyCertSign, cRLSign }
    -- PRIVATE-KEY no ASN.1 wrapping -- }

pk-slh-dsa-shake-192f PUBLIC-KEY ::= {
    IDENTIFIER id-slh-dsa-shake-192f
    -- KEY no ASN.1 wrapping --
    CERT-KEY-USAGE
      { digitalSignature, nonRepudiation, keyCertSign, cRLSign }
    -- PRIVATE-KEY no ASN.1 wrapping -- }

pk-slh-dsa-shake-256s PUBLIC-KEY ::= {
    IDENTIFIER id-slh-dsa-shake-256s
    -- KEY no ASN.1 wrapping --
    CERT-KEY-USAGE
      { digitalSignature, nonRepudiation, keyCertSign, cRLSign }
    -- PRIVATE-KEY no ASN.1 wrapping -- }

pk-slh-dsa-shake-256f PUBLIC-KEY ::= {
    IDENTIFIER id-slh-dsa-shake-256f
    -- KEY no ASN.1 wrapping --
    CERT-KEY-USAGE
      { digitalSignature, nonRepudiation, keyCertSign, cRLSign }
    -- PRIVATE-KEY no ASN.1 wrapping -- }

SLH-DSA-PublicKey ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (32 | 48 | 64))

SLH-DSA-PrivateKey ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (64 | 96 | 128))

--
-- Expand the signature algorithm set used by CMS [RFC5911]
--

SignatureAlgorithmSet SIGNATURE-ALGORITHM ::=
    { sa-slh-dsa-sha2-128s |
      sa-slh-dsa-sha2-128f |
      sa-slh-dsa-sha2-192s |
      sa-slh-dsa-sha2-192f |
      sa-slh-dsa-sha2-256s |
      sa-slh-dsa-sha2-256f |
      sa-slh-dsa-shake-128s |

Housley, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9814

SLH-DSA Signature Algorithm in CMS

July 2025

      sa-slh-dsa-shake-128f |
      sa-slh-dsa-shake-192s |
      sa-slh-dsa-shake-192f |
      sa-slh-dsa-shake-256s |
      sa-slh-dsa-shake-256f,
      ... }

--
-- Expand the S/MIME capabilities set used by CMS [RFC5911]
--

SMimeCaps SMIME-CAPS ::=
    { sa-slh-dsa-sha2-128s.&smimeCaps |
      sa-slh-dsa-sha2-128f.&smimeCaps |
      sa-slh-dsa-sha2-192s.&smimeCaps |
      sa-slh-dsa-sha2-192f.&smimeCaps |
      sa-slh-dsa-sha2-256s.&smimeCaps |
      sa-slh-dsa-sha2-256f.&smimeCaps |
      sa-slh-dsa-shake-128s.&smimeCaps |
      sa-slh-dsa-shake-128f.&smimeCaps |
      sa-slh-dsa-shake-192s.&smimeCaps |
      sa-slh-dsa-shake-192f.&smimeCaps |
      sa-slh-dsa-shake-256s.&smimeCaps |
      sa-slh-dsa-shake-256f.&smimeCaps,
      ... }

END

<CODE ENDS>

Acknowledgements

Thanks to
Baker Dieter Bratko Vijay Gurbani Paul Wouters
and constructive comments.

Mike Ounsworth Tomas Gustavsson Daniel Van Geest Carl Wallace Phillip Hallam-
 for their careful review
, and

Roman Danyliw

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Authors' Addresses

Russ Housley
Vigil Security, LLC
Email:

housley@vigilsec.com

Scott Fluhrer
Cisco Systems
Email:

sfluhrer@cisco.com

Panos Kampanakis
Amazon Web Services
Email:

kpanos@amazon.com

Housley, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9814

SLH-DSA Signature Algorithm in CMS

July 2025

Bas Westerbaan
Cloudflare
Email:

bas@westerbaan.name

Housley, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

