Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9050
Standards Track
July 2021
2070-1721

Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:
Z. Li
Huawei Technologies

S. Peng
Huawei Technologies

M. Negi
RtBrick Inc

Q. Zhao
Etheric Networks

C. Zhou
HPE

RFC 9050
Path Computation Element Communication Protocol
(PCEP) Procedures and Extensions for Using the PCE
as a Central Controller (PCECC) of LSPs

Abstract

The Path Computation Element (PCE) is a core component of Software-Deﬁned Networking (SDN)
systems.

A PCE as a Central Controller (PCECC) can simplify the processing of a distributed control plane
by blending it with elements of SDN and without necessarily completely replacing it. Thus, the
Label Switched Path (LSP) can be calculated/set up/initiated and the label-forwarding entries can
also be downloaded through a centralized PCE server to each network device along the path
while leveraging the existing PCE technologies as much as possible.

This document speciﬁes the procedures and Path Computation Element Communication Protocol
(PCEP) extensions for using the PCE as the central controller for provisioning labels along the
path of the static LSP.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9050

.

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9050

PCECC

July 2021

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

2.1.  Requirements Language

3.  Basic PCECC Mode

4.  PCEP Requirements

5.  Procedures for Using the PCE as a Central Controller (PCECC)

5.1.  Stateful PCE Model

5.2.  New LSP Functions

5.3.  New PCEP Object

5.4.  PCECC Capability Advertisement

5.5.  LSP Operations

5.5.1.  PCE-Initiated PCECC LSP

5.5.2.  PCC-Initiated PCECC LSP

5.5.3.  Central Controller Instructions

5.5.3.1.  Label Download CCI

5.5.3.2.  Label Cleanup CCI

5.5.4.  PCECC LSP Update

5.5.5.  Re-delegation and Cleanup

5.5.6.  Synchronization of Central Controller Instructions

5.5.7.  PCECC LSP State Report

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9050

PCECC

July 2021

5.5.8.  PCC-Based Allocations

6.  PCEP Messages

6.1.  The PCInitiate Message

6.2.  The PCRpt Message

7.  PCEP Objects

7.1.  OPEN Object

7.1.1.  PCECC Capability Sub-TLV

7.2.  PATH-SETUP-TYPE TLV

7.3.  CCI Object

7.3.1.  Address TLVs

8.  Security Considerations

8.1.  Malicious PCE

8.2.  Malicious PCC

9.  Manageability Considerations

9.1.  Control of Function and Policy

9.2.  Information and Data Models

9.3.  Liveness Detection and Monitoring

9.4.  Verify Correct Operations

9.5.  Requirements on Other Protocols

9.6.  Impact on Network Operations

10. IANA Considerations

10.1.  PATH-SETUP-TYPE-CAPABILITY Sub-TLV Type Indicators

10.2.  PCECC-CAPABILITY Sub-TLV's Flag Field

10.3.  PCEP Path Setup Type Registry

10.4.  PCEP Object

10.5.  CCI Object Flag Field

10.6.  PCEP-Error Object

11. References

11.1.  Normative References

11.2.  Informative References

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9050

PCECC

July 2021

Acknowledgments

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

[RFC4655]

The Path Computation Element (PCE)
 was developed to oﬄoad the path computation
function from routers in an MPLS traﬃc-engineered (TE) network. It can compute optimal paths
for traﬃc across a network and can also update the paths to reﬂect changes in the network or
traﬃc demands. Since then, the role and function of the PCE have grown to cover a number of
other uses (such as GMPLS
initiated use of network resources

) and to allow delegated control

.
[RFC8281]

[RFC7025]

[RFC8231]

 and PCE-

[RFC7399]

, Software-Deﬁned Networking (SDN) refers to a separation between the

According to
control elements and the forwarding components so that software running in a centralized
system, called a controller, can act to program the devices in the network to behave in speciﬁc
ways. A required element in an SDN architecture is a component that plans how the network
resources will be used and how the devices will be programmed. It is possible to view this
component as performing speciﬁc computations to place traﬃc ﬂows within the network given
knowledge of the availability of network resources, how other forwarding devices are
programmed, and the way that other ﬂows are routed. This is the function and purpose of a PCE,
and the way that a PCE integrates into a wider network control system (including an SDN system)
is presented in

.
[RFC7491]

In early PCE implementations, where the PCE was used to derive paths for MPLS Label Switched
Paths (LSPs), paths were requested by network elements (known as Path Computation Clients
(PCCs)), and the results of the path computations were supplied to network elements using the
. This protocol was later
Path Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP)
extended to allow a PCE to send unsolicited requests to the network for LSP establishment
.
[RFC8281]

[RFC5440]

The PCE was developed to derive paths for MPLS LSPs, which are supplied to the head end of the
LSP using the PCEP. But SDN has a broader applicability than signaled MPLS and GMPLS TE
networks, and the PCE may be used to determine paths in a range of use cases. PCEP has been
proposed as a control protocol for use in these environments to allow the PCE to be fully enabled
as a central controller.

 introduces the architecture for the PCE as a central controller as an extension to the

[RFC8283]
architecture described in
between the PCE and PCC.
PCEP as a Southbound Interface (SBI) and introduces the implications for the protocol.
describes the use cases for the PCECC architecture.

 and assumes the continued use of PCEP as the protocol used
 further examines the motivations and applicability for

[RFC4655]
[RFC8283]

[PCECC]

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9050

PCECC

July 2021

A PCECC can simplify the processing of a distributed control plane by blending it with elements
of SDN and without necessarily completely replacing it. Thus, the LSP can be calculated/set up/
initiated and the label-forwarding entries can also be downloaded through a centralized PCE
server to each network device along the path while leveraging the existing PCE technologies as
much as possible.

This document speciﬁes the procedures and PCEP extensions for using the PCE as the central
controller for static LSPs, where LSPs can be provisioned as explicit label instructions at each
hop on the end-to-end path. Each router along the path must be told what label-forwarding
instructions to program and what resources to reserve. The PCE-based controller keeps a view of
the network and determines the paths of the end-to-end LSPs, and the controller uses PCEP to
communicate with each router along the path of the end-to-end LSP.

While this document is focused on the procedures for the static LSPs (referred to as the basic
PCECC mode in Section 3), the mechanisms and protocol encodings are speciﬁed in such a way
that extensions for other use cases are easy to achieve. For example, the extensions for the PCECC
for Segment Routing (SR) are speciﬁed in

[PCECC-SRv6]

[PCECC-SR]

 and

.

2.  Terminology

The terminology used in this document is the same as that described in the

[RFC8283]
.

2.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Basic PCECC Mode

In this mode, LSPs are provisioned as explicit label instructions at each hop on the end-to-end
path. Each router along the path must be told what label-forwarding instructions to program and
what resources to reserve. The controller uses PCEP to communicate with each router along the
path of the end-to-end LSP.

 highlights the use of the PCECC for label allocation along the static

 examines the motivations and applicability for the PCECC and use of PCEP as an SBI.

[RFC8283]
Section 3.1.2 of [RFC8283]
LSPs, and it simpliﬁes the processing of a distributed control plane by blending it with elements
of SDN and without necessarily completely replacing it. This allows the operator to introduce the
advantages of SDN (such as programmability) into the network. Further,
describes some of the scenarios where the PCECC technique could be useful.
[RFC8283]
needs to evaluate the advantages oﬀered by the PCECC against the operational and scalability
needs of the PCECC.

 also describes the implications on the protocol when used as an SDN SBI. The operator

Section 3.3 of [PCECC]

Section 4 of

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9050

PCECC

July 2021

MUST NOT

Section 3.1.2 of [RFC8283]

, the PCE-based controller will take responsibility for managing

As per
some part of the MPLS label space for each of the routers that it controls and may take wider
responsibility for partitioning the label space for each router and allocating diﬀerent parts for
diﬀerent uses. The PCC
avoid overlap and collisions of label allocations. It is
allocations (from the label space set aside for the PCE) for all nodes along the path. For the
purpose of this document, it is assumed that the exclusive label range to be used by a PCE is
known and set on both PCEP peers. A future extension could add the capability to advertise this
range via a possible PCEP extension as well (see
). The rest of the processing is similar to
the existing stateful PCE mechanism.

 make allocations from the label space set aside for the PCE to

 that the PCE makes

RECOMMENDED

[PCE-ID]

This document also allows a case where the label space is maintained by the PCC and the labels
are allocated by it. In this case, the PCE should request the allocation from the PCC, as described
in Section 5.5.8.

4.  PCEP Requirements

The following key requirements should be considered when designing the PCECC-based solution:

1.

A PCEP speaker supporting this document needs to have the capability to advertise its PCECC
capability to its peers.

2.

A PCEP speaker needs means to identify PCECC-based LSPs in the PCEP messages.

3.

PCEP procedures need to allow for PCC-based label allocations.

4.

PCEP procedures need to provide a means to update (or clean up) label entries downloaded
to the PCC.

5.

PCEP procedures need to provide a means to synchronize the labels between the PCE and the
PCC via PCEP messages.

5.  Procedures for Using the PCE as a Central Controller
(PCECC)

5.1.  Stateful PCE Model

Active stateful PCE is described in
existing active stateful PCE mechanism as much as possible to control LSPs.

[RFC8231]

. A PCE as a Central Controller (PCECC) reuses the

5.2.  New LSP Functions

Several new functions are required in PCEP to support the PCECC. This document extends the
existing messages to support the new functions required by the PCECC:

PCInitiate:

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9050

PCECC

July 2021

. A PCInitiate message is used to set up a PCE-initiated
A PCEP message described in
LSP based on a PCECC mechanism. It is also extended for Central Controller Instructions (CCI)
(download or clean up the label-forwarding instructions in the context of this document) on
all nodes along the path, as described in Section 6.1.

[RFC8281]

PCRpt:

A PCEP message described in

[RFC8231]

. A PCRpt message is used to send the PCECC LSP

Reports. It is also extended to report the set of CCI (label-forwarding instructions in the
context of this document) received from the PCE, as described in Section 6.2. Section 5.5.6
describes the use of a PCRpt message during synchronization.

PCUpd:

A PCEP message described in

[RFC8231]

. A PCUpd message is used to send the PCECC

LSP Updates.

The new functions deﬁned in this document are mapped onto the PCEP messages, as shown in
Table 1.

Function

Message

PCECC Capability advertisement

Open

Label entry Add

PCInitiate

Label entry Clean up

PCInitiate

PCECC-Initiated LSP

PCInitiate

PCECC LSP Update

PCECC LSP State Report

PCECC LSP Delegation

PCECC Label Report

PCUpd

PCRpt

PCRpt

PCRpt

Table 1: Functions Mapped to the PCEP Messages

5.3.  New PCEP Object

This document deﬁnes a new PCEP object called CCI (Section 7.3) to specify the Central Controller
Instructions. In the scope of this document, this is limited to label-forwarding instructions.
Future documents can create new CCI object-types for other types of Central Controller
Instructions. The CC-ID is the unique identiﬁer for the CCI in PCEP. The PCEP messages are
extended in this document to handle the PCECC operations.

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9050

PCECC

July 2021

5.4.  PCECC Capability Advertisement

During the PCEP initialization phase, PCEP speakers (PCE or PCC) advertise their support of and
willingness to use PCEP extensions for the PCECC using these elements in the OPEN message:

•

a new Path Setup Type (PST) (Section 7.2) in the PATH-SETUP-TYPE-CAPABILITY TLV to
indicate support for PCEP extensions for the PCECC - 2 (Traﬃc engineering path is set up
using PCECC mode)

•

a new PCECC-CAPABILITY sub-TLV (Section 7.1.1) with the L bit set to '1' inside the PATH-
SETUP-TYPE-CAPABILITY TLV to indicate a willingness to use PCEP extensions for the PCECC-
based Central Controller Instructions for label download

•

the STATEFUL-PCE-CAPABILITY TLV

[RFC8231]

 (with the I ﬂag set

[RFC8281]

)

The new PST is to be listed in the PATH-SETUP-TYPE-CAPABILITY TLV by all PCEP speakers that
support the PCEP extensions for the PCECC in this document.

The new PCECC-CAPABILITY sub-TLV is included in the PATH-SETUP-TYPE-CAPABILITY TLV in
the OPEN object to indicate a willingness to use the PCEP extensions for the PCECC during the
established PCEP session. Using the L bit in this TLV, the PCE shows the intention to function as a
PCECC server, and the PCC shows a willingness to act as a PCECC client for label download
instructions (see Section 7.1.1).

If the PCECC-CAPABILITY sub-TLV is advertised and the STATEFUL-PCE-CAPABILITY TLV is not
advertised, or is advertised without the I ﬂag set, in the OPEN object, the receiver

MUST

:

•

send a PCErr message with Error-Type=19 (Invalid Operation) and Error-value=17 (Stateful
PCE capability was not advertised) and

•

terminate the session.

If a PCEP speaker receives the PATH-SETUP-TYPE-CAPABILITY TLV with the PCECC PST but
:
without the PCECC-CAPABILITY sub-TLV, it
MUST

•

send a PCErr message with Error-Type=10 (Reception of an invalid object) and Error-
value=33 (Missing PCECC Capability sub-TLV) and

•

terminate the PCEP session.

The PCECC-CAPABILITY sub-TLV
in the PATH-SETUP-TYPE-CAPABILITY TLV. If it is present without the corresponding PST listed in
the PATH-SETUP-TYPE-CAPABILITY TLV, it

 be used without the corresponding PST being listed

 be ignored.

MUST NOT

MUST

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9050

PCECC

July 2021

If one or both speakers (PCE and PCC) have not indicated support and willingness to use the PCEP
extensions for the PCECC, the PCEP extensions for the PCECC
operation is attempted when both speakers have not agreed in the OPEN messages, the receiver
of the message

 be used. If a PCECC

MUST NOT

:
MUST

•

send a PCErr message with Error-Type=19 (Invalid Operation) and Error-value=16
(Attempted PCECC operations when PCECC capability was not advertised) and

•

terminate the PCEP session.

A legacy PCEP speaker (that does not recognize the PCECC Capability sub-TLV) will ignore the
sub-TLV in accordance with
[RFC5440]
on receipt of an unsupported PST in a Request Parameter (RP) / Stateful PCE Request Parameter
(SRP) object, will:

, the legacy PCEP speaker,

[RFC8408]

[RFC8408]

. As per

 and

•

send a PCErr message with Error-Type=21 (Invalid traﬃc engineering path setup type) and
Error-value=1 (Unsupported path setup type) and

•

terminate the PCEP session.

5.5.  LSP Operations

The PCEP messages pertaining to a PCECC
the SRP object

 in
 with the PST set to '2' to clearly identify that the PCECC LSP is intended.

 include the PATH-SETUP-TYPE TLV

[RFC8231]

[RFC8408]

MUST

5.5.1.  PCE-Initiated PCECC LSP

The LSP instantiation operation is deﬁned in
based on the PCECC mechanism, a PCE sends a PCInitiate message with the PST set to '2' for the
PCECC (see Section 7.2) to the ingress PCC.

. In order to set up a PCE-initiated LSP

[RFC8281]

The label-forwarding instructions (see Section 5.5.3) from the PCECC are sent after the initial
PCInitiate and PCRpt message exchange with the ingress PCC, as per
 (see Figure 1).
This is done so that the PCEP-speciﬁc identiﬁer for the LSP (PLSP-ID) and other LSP identiﬁers
can be obtained from the ingress and can be included in the label-forwarding instruction in the
next set of PCInitiate messages along the path, as described below.

[RFC8281]

[RFC8231] MUST

 be included for the PCECC LSPs; it uniquely identiﬁes

An LSP-IDENTIFIERS TLV
the LSP in the network. Note that the ﬁelds in the LSP-IDENTIFIERS TLV are described for the
RSVP-signaled LSPs but are applicable to the PCECC LSP as well. The LSP object is included in the
CCI (label download Section 7.3) to identify the PCECC LSP for this instruction. The PLSP-ID is the
original identiﬁer used by the ingress PCC, so a transit/egress Label Switching Router (LSR) could
have multiple Central Controller Instructions that have the same PLSP-ID. The PLSP-ID in
combination with the source (in the LSP-IDENTIFIERS TLV)
included for maintainability reasons to ease debugging. As per
also include the SPEAKER-ENTITY-ID TLV to identify the PCE that initiated these instructions.
Also, the CC-ID is unique in each PCEP session, as described in Section 7.3.

 be unique. The PLSP-ID is

, the LSP object could

[RFC8281]

MUST

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9050

PCECC

July 2021

On receipt of a PCInitiate message for the PCECC LSP, the PCC responds with a PCRpt message
with the status set to 'Going-up' and carrying the assigned PLSP-ID (see Figure 1). The ingress PCC
also sets the D (Delegate) ﬂag (see
) in the LSP object.
When the PCE receives this PCRpt message with the PLSP-ID, it assigns labels along the path and
sets up the path by sending a PCInitiate message to each node along the path of the LSP, as per
the PCECC technique. The CC-ID uniquely identiﬁes the Central Controller Instructions within a
PCEP session. Each node along the path (PCC) responds with a PCRpt message to acknowledge the
CCI with the PCRpt messages including the CCI and LSP objects.

) and C (Create) ﬂag (see

[RFC8231]

[RFC8281]

The ingress node would receive one CCI object with the O bit (out-label) set. The transit node(s)
would receive two CCI objects with the in-label CCI without the O bit set and the out-label CCI
with the O bit set. The egress node would receive one CCI object without the O bit set (see Figure
1). A node can determine its role based on the setting of the O bit in the CCI object(s) and the LSP-
IDENTIFIERS TLV in the LSP object.

The LSP deletion operation for the PCE-initiated PCECC LSP is the same as deﬁned in
The PCE should further perform the label entry cleanup operation, as described in Section
5.5.3.2, for the corresponding LSP.

[RFC8281]

.

              +-------+                              +-------+
              |PCC    |                              |  PCE  |
              |ingress|                              +-------+
       +------|       |                                  |
       | PCC  +-------+                                  |
       | transit| |                                      |
+------|        | |<--PCInitiate,PLSP-ID=0,PST=2---------| PCECC LSP
|PCC   +--------+ |                                      | Initiate
|egress  |  |     |----PCRpt,PLSP-ID=2,D=1,C=1---------->| PCECC LSP
+--------+  |     |       (GOING-UP)                     |
    |       |     |                                      |
    |<-------PCInitiate,CC-ID=X,PLSP-ID=2----------------| Label
    |       |     |                                      | download
    |--------PCRpt,CC-ID=X,PLSP-ID=2-------------------->| CCI
    |       |     |                                      |
    |       |<------PCInitiate,CC-ID=Y1,Y2,PLSP-ID=2-----| Label
    |       |     |                                      | download
    |       |-------PCRpt,CC-ID=Y1,Y2,PLSP-ID=2--------->| CCI
    |       |     |                                      |
    |       |     |<----PCInitiate,CC-ID=Z,PLSP-ID=2-----| Label
    |       |     |                                      | download
    |       |     |-----PCRpt,CC-ID=Z,PLSP-ID=2--------->| CCI
    |       |     |                                      |
    |       |     |<---PCUpd,PLSP-ID=2,PST=2,D=1---------| PCECC LSP
    |       |     |      (UP)                            | Update
    |       |     |----PCRpt,PLSP-ID=2,D=1,C=1---------->|
    |       |     |      (UP)                            |

Figure 1: PCE-Initiated PCECC LSP

Once the label operations are completed, the PCE
As per

, the PCUpd message is with the D ﬂag set.

[RFC8231]

MUST

 send a PCUpd message to the ingress PCC.

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9050

PCECC

July 2021

The PCECC LSPs are considered to be 'up' by default (on receipt of a PCUpd message from the
PCE). The ingress could further choose to deploy a data-plane check mechanism and report the
status back to the PCE via a PCRpt message to make sure that the correct label instructions are
made along the path of the PCECC LSP (and it is ready to carry traﬃc). The exact mechanism is
out of scope of this document.

In the case where the label allocations are made by the PCC itself (see Section 5.5.8), the PCE
could request an allocation to be made by the PCC; then, the PCC would send a PCRpt message
with the allocated label encoded in the CC-ID object (as shown in Figure 2) in the conﬁguration
sequence from the egress towards the ingress along the path.

              +-------+                              +-------+
              |PCC    |                              |  PCE  |
              |ingress|                              +-------+
       +------|       |                                  |
       | PCC  +-------+                                  |
       | transit| |                                      |
+------|        | |<--PCInitiate,PLSP-ID=0,PST=2,--------| PCECC LSP
|PCC   +--------+ |                                      | Initiate
|egress  |  |     |----PCRpt,PLSP-ID=2,D=1,C=1---------->| PCECC LSP
+--------+  |     |       (GOING-UP)                     |
    |       |     |                                      |
    |<-------PCInitiate,CC-ID=X,PLSP-ID=2----------------| Label
    |       |     |     C=1,O=0                          | download
    |--------PCRpt,CC-ID=X,PLSP-ID=2-------------------->| CCI
    |       |     |     Label=L1                         |
    |       |<------PCInitiate,PLSP-ID=2,----------------| Labels
    |       |     |            CC-ID=Y1,C=1,O=0          | download
    |       |     |            CC-ID=Y2,C=0,O=1,L1       | CCI
    |       |-------PCRpt,PLSP-ID=2--------------------->|
    |       |     |       CC-ID=Y1,O=0,Label=L2          |
    |       |     |       CC-ID=Y2,O=1                   |
    |       |     |<----PCInitiate,CC-ID=Z,PLSP-ID=2-----| Label
    |       |     |                C=0,O=1,L2            | download
    |       |     |-----PCRpt,CC-ID=Z,PLSP-ID=2--------->| CCI
    |       |     |                                      |
    |       |     |<---PCUpd,PLSP-ID=2,PST=2,D=1---------| PCECC LSP
    |       |     |      (UP)                            | Update

Figure 2: PCE-Initiated PCECC LSP (PCC Allocation)

In this example, it should be noted that the request is made to the egress node with the C bit set
in the CCI object to indicate that the label allocation needs to be done by the egress, and the
egress responds with the allocated label to the PCE. The PCE further informs the transit PCC
without setting the C bit to '1' in the CCI object for the out-label, but the C bit is set to '1' for the in-
label, so the transit node makes the label allocation (for the in-label) and reports to the PCE.
Similarly, the C bit is unset towards the ingress to complete all the label allocations for the PCECC
LSP.

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9050

PCECC

July 2021

5.5.2.  PCC-Initiated PCECC LSP

In order to set up an LSP based on the PCECC mechanism where the LSP is conﬁgured at the PCC,
a PCC
Section 7.2) and D (Delegate) ﬂag (see

 delegate the LSP by sending a PCRpt message with the PST set for the PCECC (see

) set in the LSP object (see Figure 3).

[RFC8231]

MUST

When a PCE receives the initial PCRpt message with the D ﬂag and PST set to '2', it
calculate the path and assign labels along the path in addition to setting up the path by sending a
PCInitiate message to each node along the path of the LSP, as per the PCECC technique (see Figure
3). The CC-ID uniquely identiﬁes the CCI within a PCEP session. Each PCC further responds with
the PCRpt messages, including the CCI and LSP objects.

SHOULD

Once the CCI (label operations) are completed, the PCE
ingress PCC. As per
calculated by the PCE.

[RFC8231]

MUST
, this PCUpd message should include the path information

 send the PCUpd message to the

Note that the PCECC LSPs

MUST

 be delegated to a PCE at all times.

The LSP deletion operation for the PCECC LSPs is the same as deﬁned in
receives a PCRpt message for LSP deletion, then it does label the cleanup operation, as described
in Section 5.5.3.2, for the corresponding LSP.

. If the PCE

[RFC8231]

The basic PCECC LSP setup sequence is as shown in Figure 3.

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9050

PCECC

July 2021

               +-------+                             +-------+
               |PCC    |                             |  PCE  |
               |ingress|                             +-------+
        +------|       |                                 |
        | PCC  +-------+                                 |
        | transit| |                                     |
 +------|        | |---PCRpt,PLSP-ID=1,PST=2,D=1-------->| PCECC LSP
 |PCC   +--------+ |                                     |
 |egress  |  |     |                                     |
 +--------+  |     |                                     |
     |       |     |                                     |
     |<-------PCInitiate,CC-ID=X,PLSP-ID=1---------------| Label
     |       |     |     L1,O=0                          | download
     |--------PCRpt,CC-ID=X,PLSP-ID=1------------------->| CCI
     |       |     |                                     |
     |       |<------PCInitiate,PLSP-ID=1,---------------| Labels
     |       |     |            CC-ID=Y1,O=0,L2          | download
     |       |     |            CC-ID=Y2,O=1,L1          | CCI
     |       |-------PCRpt,CC-ID=Y1,Y2,PLSP-ID=1-------->|
     |       |     |                                     |
     |       |     |<----PCInitiate,CC-ID=Z,PLSP-ID=1----| Label
     |       |     |                L2,O=1               | download
     |       |     |-----PCRpt,CC-ID=Z,PLSP-ID=1-------->| CCI
     |       |     |                                     |
     |       |     |<---PCUpd,PLSP-ID=1,PST=2,D=1--------| PCECC LSP
     |       |     |                                     | Update
     |       |     |                                     |

Figure 3: PCC-Initiated PCECC LSP

In the case where the label allocations are made by the PCC itself (see Section 5.5.8), the PCE
could request an allocation to be made by the PCC; then, the PCC would send a PCRpt message
with the allocated label encoded in the CC-ID object, as shown in Figure 4.

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9050

PCECC

July 2021

               +-------+                             +-------+
               |PCC    |                             |  PCE  |
               |ingress|                             +-------+
        +------|       |                                 |
        | PCC  +-------+                                 |
        | transit| |                                     |
 +------|        | |---PCRpt,PLSP-ID=1,PST=2,D=1-------->| PCECC LSP
 |PCC   +--------+ |                                     |
 |egress  |  |     |                                     |
 +--------+  |     |                                     |
     |       |     |                                     |
     |<-------PCInitiate,CC-ID=X,PLSP-ID=1---------------| Label
     |       |     |     C=1                             | download
     |--------PCRpt,CC-ID=X,PLSP-ID=1------------------->| CCI
     |       |     |     Label=L1                        |
     |       |<------PCInitiate,PLSP-ID=1,---------------| Labels
     |       |     |            CC-ID=Y1,C=1             | download
     |       |     |            CC-ID=Y2,C=0,L1          | CCI
     |       |-------PCRpt,PLSP-ID=1-------------------->|
     |       |     |       CC-ID=Y1,Label=L2             |
     |       |     |       CC-ID=Y2                      |
     |       |     |<----PCInitiate,CC-ID=Z,PLSP-ID=1----| Label
     |       |     |                C=0,L2               | download
     |       |     |-----PCRpt,CC-ID=Z,PLSP-ID=1-------->| CCI
     |       |     |                                     |
     |       |     |<---PCUpd,PLSP-ID=1,PST=2,D=1--------| PCECC LSP
     |       |     |                                     | Update
     |       |     |                                     |

Figure 4: PCC-Initiated PCECC LSP (PCC Allocation)

Note:

The O bit is set as before (and thus not included).

In the case where the label allocations are made by the PCC itself (see Section 5.5.8), the
procedure remains the same, with just an additional constraint on the conﬁguration sequence.

The rest of the PCC-initiated PCECC LSP setup operations are the same as those described in
Section 5.5.1.

5.5.3.  Central Controller Instructions

The new CCI for the label operations in PCEP are done via the PCInitiate message (Section 6.1) by
deﬁning a new PCEP object for CCI operations. The local label range of each PCC is assumed to be
known by both the PCC and the PCE.

5.5.3.1.  Label Download CCI

In order to set up an LSP based on the PCECC, the PCE sends a PCInitiate message to each node
along the path to download the label instructions, as described in Sections 5.5.1 and 5.5.2.

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9050

PCECC

July 2021

MUST

The CCI object
IDENTIFIERS TLV
included in the LSP object.

MUST

 be included, along with the LSP object in the PCInitiate message. The LSP-
 be

 be included in the LSP object. The SPEAKER-ENTITY-ID TLV

SHOULD

If a node (PCC) receives a PCInitiate message that includes a label to download (as part of CCI)
that is out of the range set aside for the PCE, it
 send a PCErr message with Error-Type=31
(PCECC failure) and Error-value=1 (Label out of range) and
specify the error is for the corresponding label update via a PCInitiate message. If a PCC receives
a PCInitiate message but fails to download the label entry, it
Error-Type=31 (PCECC failure) and Error-value=2 (Instruction failed) and
object to specify the error is for the corresponding label update via a PCInitiate message.

 send a PCErr message with

 include the SRP object to

 include the SRP

MUST

MUST

MUST

MUST

A new PCEP object for CCI is deﬁned in Section 7.3.

5.5.3.2.  Label Cleanup CCI

In order to delete an LSP based on the PCECC, the PCE sends Central Controller Instructions via a
PCInitiate message to each node along the path of the LSP to clean up the label-forwarding
instruction.

If the PCC receives a PCInitiate message but does not recognize the label in the CCI, the PCC
MUST
generate a PCErr message with Error-Type=19 (Invalid operation) and Error-value=18 (Unknown
Label) and
cleanup (via a PCInitiate message).

 include the SRP object to specify the error is for the corresponding label

MUST

The R ﬂag in the SRP object deﬁned in
PCInitiate message.

[RFC8281]

 speciﬁes the deletion of the label entry in the

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9050

PCECC

July 2021

               +-------+                              +-------+
               |PCC    |                              |  PCE  |
               |ingress|                              +-------+
        +------|       |                                  |
        | PCC  +-------+                                  |
        | transit| |                                      |
 +------|        | |                                      |
 |PCC   +--------+ |                                      |
 |egress  |  |     |                                      |
 +--------+  |     |                                      |
     |       |     |                                      |
     |<-------PCInitiate,CC-ID=X,PLSP-ID=2----------------| Label
     |       |     |                   R=1                | cleanup
     |--------PCRpt,CC-ID=X,PLSP-ID=2-------------------->| CCI
     |       |     |              R=1                     |
     |       |<------PCInitiate,CC-ID=Y1,Y2,PLSP-ID=2-----| Label
     |       |     |                          R=1         | cleanup
     |       |-------PCRpt,CC-ID=Y1,Y2,PLSP-ID=2--------->| CCI
     |       |     |                         R=1          |
     |       |     |<----PCInitiate,CC-ID=Z,PLSP-ID=2-----| Label
     |       |     |                              R=1     | cleanup
     |       |     |-----PCRpt,CC-ID=Z,PLSP-ID=2--------->| CCI
     |       |     |                         R=1          |
     |       |     |<--PCInitiate,PLSP-ID=2,PST=2,R=1-----| PCECC LSP
     |       |     |                                      | remove

Figure 5: Label Cleanup

[RFC8281]

, following the removal of the label-forwarding instruction, the PCC

As per
PCRpt message. The SRP object in the PCRpt message
PCInitiate message that triggered the removal. The R ﬂag in the SRP object

 include the SRP-ID-number from the
MUST

 be set.

MUST

MUST

 send a

In the case where the label allocation is made by the PCC itself (see Section 5.5.8), the removal
procedure remains the same, adding the sequence constraint.

5.5.4.  PCECC LSP Update

The update is done as per the make-before-break procedures, i.e., the PCECC ﬁrst updates new
label instructions based on the updated path and then informs the ingress to switch traﬃc before
cleaning up the former instructions. New CC-IDs are used to identify the updated instructions;
the identiﬁers in the LSP object uniquely identify the existing LSP. Once new instructions are
downloaded, the PCE further updates the new path at the ingress, which triggers the traﬃc
switch on the updated path. The ingress PCC acknowledges with a PCRpt message, on receipt of
the PCRpt message, the PCE does the cleanup operation for the former LSP, as described in
Section 5.5.3.2.

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9050

PCECC

July 2021

              +-------+                             +-------+
              |PCC    |                             |  PCE  |
              |ingress|                             +-------+
       +------|       |                                 |
       | PCC  +-------+                                 |
       | transit| |                                     |
+------|        | |                                     |
|PCC   +--------+ |                                     |
|egress  |  |     |                                     |
+--------+  |     |                                     |
    |       |     |                                     | New Path
    |<------ PCInitiate,CC-ID=XX,PLSP-ID=1 -------------| for LSP
    |       |     |                                     | trigger
    |--------PCRpt,CC-ID=XX,PLSP-ID=1------------------>| new CCI
    |       |     |                                     |
    |       |<------PCInitiate,CC-ID=YY1,YY2,PLSP-ID=1--| Label
    |       |     |                                     | download
    |       |-------PCRpt,CC-ID=YY1,YY2,PLSP-ID=1------>| CCI
    |       |     |                                     |
    |       |     |<----PCInitiate,CC-ID=ZZ,PLSP-ID=1---| Label
    |       |     |                                     | download
    |       |     |-----PCRpt,CC-ID=ZZ,PLSP-ID=1------->| CCI
    |       |     |                                     |
    |       |     |<---PCUpd,PLSP-ID=1,PST=2,D=1--------| PCECC
    |       |     |    SRP=S                            | LSP Update
    |       |     |                                     |
    |       |     |---PCRpt,PLSP-ID=1,PST=2,D=1-------->| Trigger
    |       |     |       (SRP=S)                       | Delete
    |       |     |                                     | former CCI
    |       |     |                                     |
    |<-------PCInitiate,CC-ID=X,PLSP-ID=1---------------| Label
    |       |     |                   R=1               | cleanup
    |--------PCRpt,CC-ID=X,PLSP-ID=1------------------->| CCI
    |       |     |              R=1                    |
    |       |<------PCInitiate,CC-ID=Y1,Y2,PLSP-ID=1----| Label
    |       |     |                              R=1    | cleanup
    |       |-------PCRpt,CC-ID=Y1,Y2,PLSP-ID=1-------->| CCI
    |       |     |                         R=1         |
    |       |     |<----PCInitiate,CC-ID=Z,PLSP-ID=1----| Label
    |       |     |                              R=1    | cleanup
    |       |     |-----PCRpt,CC-ID=Z,PLSP-ID=1-------->| CCI
    |       |     |                         R=1         |

Figure 6: PCECC LSP Update

The modiﬁed PCECC LSPs are considered to be 'up' by default. The ingress could further choose
to deploy a data-plane check mechanism and report the status back to the PCE via a PCRpt
message. The exact mechanism is out of scope of this document.

In the case where the label allocations are made by the PCC itself (see Section 5.5.8), the
procedure remains the same.

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9050

PCECC

July 2021

5.5.5.  Re-delegation and Cleanup

[RFC8281]

As described in
PCECC LSP, the new PCE
PCInitiate message that includes the SRP, LSP, and CCI objects and carries the CC-ID and PLSP-ID
identifying the instructions that it wants to take control of.

, a new PCE can gain control over an orphaned LSP. In the case of a
 also gain control over the CCI in the same way by sending a

MUST

[RFC8281]

, the State Timeout Interval timer ensures that a PCE crash

Further, as described in
does not result in automatic and immediate disruption for the services using PCE-initiated LSPs.
Similarly the Central Controller Instructions are not removed immediately upon PCE failure.
Instead, they are cleaned up on the expiration of this timer. This allows for network cleanup
without manual intervention. The PCC
applied on expiration of the State Timeout Interval timer.

 support the removal of CCI as one of the behaviors

MUST

In the case of the PCC-initiated PCECC LSP, the control over the orphaned LSP at the ingress PCC
is taken over by the mechanism speciﬁed in
[RFC8281]
.
the CCI is described above using

 to request delegation. The control over

[RFC8741]

5.5.6.  Synchronization of Central Controller Instructions

The purpose of CCI synchronization (labels in the context of this document) is to make sure that
the PCE's view of CCI (labels) matches with the PCC's label allocation. This synchronization is
.
performed as part of the LSP State Synchronization, as described in
[RFC8232]

[RFC8231]

 and

[RFC8231]

As per LSP State Synchronization
PCRpt messages and, as per
any LSPs that are not wanted. The same PCEP messages and procedures are also used for the CCI
synchronization. The PCRpt message includes the CCI and the LSP object to report the label-
forwarding instructions. The PCE would further remove any unwanted instructions or initiate
any missing instructions.

, a PCC reports the state of its LSPs to the PCE using
, the PCE would initiate any missing LSPs and/or remove

[RFC8281]

5.5.7.  PCECC LSP State Report

As mentioned before, an ingress PCC
Maintenance (OAM) mechanism to check the status of the LSP in the data plane and
send its status in a PCRpt message to the PCE.

 choose to apply any Operations, Administration, and

MAY

 further

MAY

5.5.8.  PCC-Based Allocations

The PCE can request the PCC to allocate the label using the PCInitiate message. The C ﬂag in the
CCI object is set to '1' to indicate that the allocation needs to be made by the PCC. The PCC
MUST
try to allocate the label and

 report to the PCE via a PCRpt or PCErr message.

MUST

If the value of the label is 0 and the C ﬂag is set to '1', it indicates that the PCE is requesting the
allocation to be made by the PCC. If the label is 'n' and the C ﬂag is set to '1' in the CCI object, it
indicates that the PCE requests a speciﬁc value 'n' for the label. If the allocation is successful, the
PCC
object is invalid, it

 report via the PCRpt message with the CCI object. If the value of the label in the CCI
 send a PCErr message with Error-Type=31 (PCECC failure) and Error-

MUST

MUST

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9050

PCECC

July 2021

value=3 (Invalid CCI). If it is valid but the PCC is unable to allocate it, it
message with Error-Type=31 (PCECC failure) and Error-value=4 (Unable to allocate the speciﬁed
CCI).

 send a PCErr

MUST

If the PCC wishes to withdraw or modify the previously assigned label, it
message without any label or with the label containing the new value, respectively, in the CCI
object. The PCE would further trigger the label cleanup of the older label, as per Section 5.5.3.2.

 send a PCRpt

MUST

6.  PCEP Messages

[RFC5440]

, a PCEP message consists of a common header followed by a variable-

As deﬁned in
length body made of a set of objects that can be either mandatory or optional. An object is said to
be mandatory in a PCEP message when the object must be included for the message to be
considered valid. For each PCEP message type, a set of rules is deﬁned, which speciﬁes the set of
objects that the message can carry. An implementation
 form the PCEP messages using the
object ordering speciﬁed in this document.

MUST

The LSP-IDENTIFIERS TLV

MUST

 be included in the LSP object for the PCECC LSP.

The message formats in this document are speciﬁed using Routing Backus-Naur Form (RBNF)
encoding, as speciﬁed in

[RFC5511]

.

6.1.  The PCInitiate Message

The PCInitiate message
extends the message, as shown below.

[RFC8281]

 can be used to download or remove the labels; this document

     <PCInitiate Message> ::= <Common Header>
                              <PCE-initiated-lsp-list>

Where:

•

<Common Header> is deﬁned in

[RFC5440]

.

     <PCE-initiated-lsp-list> ::= <PCE-initiated-lsp-request>
                                  [<PCE-initiated-lsp-list>]

     <PCE-initiated-lsp-request> ::=
                            (<PCE-initiated-lsp-instantiation>|
                             <PCE-initiated-lsp-deletion>|
                             <PCE-initiated-lsp-central-control>)

     <PCE-initiated-lsp-central-control> ::= <SRP>
                                             <LSP>
                                             <cci-list>

     <cci-list> ::=  <CCI>
                     [<cci-list>]

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9050

Where:

PCECC

July 2021

•

<PCE-initiated-lsp-instantiation> and <PCE-initiated-lsp-deletion> are as per

[RFC8281]

.

•

The LSP and SRP object is deﬁned in

[RFC8231]

.

; if the SRP object is missing, the receiving PCC

 send a PCErr message with Error-Type=6 (Mandatory Object missing) and Error-value=10
, and if the LSP object is missing, the

When a PCInitiate message is used for the CCI (labels), the SRP, LSP, and CCI objects
present. The SRP object is deﬁned in
[RFC8231]
MUST
(SRP object missing). The LSP object is deﬁned in
receiving PCC
Error-value=8 (LSP object missing). The CCI object is deﬁned in Section 7.3, and if the CCI object is
missing, the receiving PCC
missing) and Error-value=17 (CCI object missing). More than one CCI object
the PCInitiate message for a transit LSR.

 send a PCErr message with Error-Type=6 (Mandatory Object missing) and

 send a PCErr message with Error-Type=6 (Mandatory Object

 be included in

[RFC8231]

MUST

MUST

MUST

MAY

 be

To clean up entries, the R (remove) bit
LSP and CCI objects.

MUST

 be set in the SRP object to be encoded along with the

The CCI object received at the ingress node
received at the egress
PCErr message with Error-Type=31 (PCECC failure) and Error-value=3 (Invalid CCI). Other
instances of the CCI object, if present,

 have the O bit unset. If this is not the case, the PCC

 have the O bit (out-label) set. The CCI object

 be ignored.

 send a

MUST

MUST

MUST

MUST

For the point-to-point (P2P) LSP setup via the PCECC technique, at the transit LSR, two CCI objects
are expected for incoming and outgoing labels associated with the LSP object. If any other CCI
object is included in the PCInitiate message, it
two CCI objects, with one of them having the O bit set and another with the O bit unset, it
send a PCErr message with Error-Type=31 (PCECC failure) and Error-value=3 (Invalid CCI).

 be ignored. If the transit LSR did not receive

MUST

MUST

Note that, on receipt of the PCInitiate message with CCI object, the ingress, egress, or transit role
of the PCC is identiﬁed via the ingress and egress IP address encoded in the LSP-IDENTIFIERS
TLV.

6.2.  The PCRpt Message

The PCRpt message can be used to report the labels that were allocated by the PCE to be used
during the State Synchronization phase or as an acknowledgment to a PCInitiate message.

      <PCRpt Message> ::= <Common Header>
                          <state-report-list>

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9050

Where:

PCECC

July 2021

      <state-report-list> ::= <state-report>[<state-report-list>]

      <state-report> ::= (<lsp-state-report>|
                          <central-control-report>)

      <lsp-state-report> ::= [<SRP>]
                             <LSP>
                             <path>

      <central-control-report> ::= [<SRP>]
                                   <LSP>
                                   <cci-list>

      <cci-list> ::=  <CCI>
                      [<cci-list>]

Where:

•

<path> is as per

[RFC8231]

, and the LSP and SRP objects are also deﬁned in

[RFC8231]

.

 send a PCErr message with Error-Type=6 (Mandatory Object missing) and Error-value=8

When a PCRpt message is used to report the CCI (labels), the LSP and CCI objects
present. The LSP object is deﬁned in
MUST
(LSP object missing). The CCI object is deﬁned in Section 7.3, and if the CCI object is missing, the
receiving PCE
Error-value=17 (CCI object missing). Two CCI objects can be included in the PCRpt message for a
transit LSR.

 send a PCErr message with Error-Type=6 (Mandatory Object missing) and

, and if the LSP object is missing, the receiving PCE

[RFC8231]

MUST

MUST

 be

7.  PCEP Objects

The PCEP objects deﬁned in this document are compliant with the PCEP object format deﬁned in
[RFC5440]
.

7.1.  OPEN Object

This document deﬁnes a new PST (2) to be included in the PATH-SETUP-TYPE-CAPABILITY TLV in
the OPEN object. Further, a new sub-TLV for the PCECC capability exchange is also deﬁned.

7.1.1.  PCECC Capability Sub-TLV

The PCECC-CAPABILITY sub-TLV is an optional TLV for use in the OPEN object in the PATH-
SETUP-TYPE-CAPABILITY TLV when the Path Setup Type list includes the PCECC Path Setup Type
2. A PCECC-CAPABILITY sub-TLV

 be ignored if the PST list does not contain PST=2.

MUST

Its format is shown in Figure 7.

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9050

PCECC

July 2021

    0                   1                   2                   3
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |               Type=1          |          Length=4             |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                             Flags                           |L|
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 7: PCECC Capability Sub-TLV

The type of the TLV is 1, and it has a ﬁxed length of 4 octets.

The value comprises a single ﬁeld: Flags (32 bits). Currently, the following ﬂag bit is deﬁned:

L bit (Label):

If set to '1' by a PCEP speaker, the L ﬂag indicates that the PCEP speaker will
support and is willing to handle the PCEC-based Central Controller Instructions for label
download. The bit
report on a PCEP session.

 be set to '1' by both a PCC and a PCE for the PCECC label download/

MUST

Unassigned bits

MUST

 be set to '0' on transmission and

MUST

 be ignored on receipt.

7.2.  PATH-SETUP-TYPE TLV

The PATH-SETUP-TYPE TLV is deﬁned in

[RFC8408]

; this document deﬁnes a new PST value:

PST=2:

Path is set up via the PCECC mode.

On a PCRpt/PCUpd/PCInitiate message, the PST=2 in the PATH-SETUP-TYPE TLV in the SRP object
MUST

 be included for an LSP set up via the PCECC-based mechanism.

7.3.  CCI Object

The CCI object is used by the PCE to specify the forwarding instructions (label information in the
context of this document) to the PCC and
 be carried within a PCInitiate or PCRpt message for
label download/report.

MAY

CCI Object-Class is 44.

CCI Object-Type is 1 for the MPLS label.

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9050

PCECC

July 2021

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                            CC-ID                              |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|          Reserved1            |             Flags         |C|O|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                 Label                 |     Reserved2         |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                                                               |
//                        Optional TLV                         //
|                                                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 8: CCI Object

The ﬁelds in the CCI object are as follows:

CC-ID:

A PCEP-speciﬁc identiﬁer for the CCI information. A PCE creates a CC-ID for each

instruction; the value is unique within the scope of the PCE and is constant for the lifetime of
 be used. Note that
a PCEP session. The values 0 and 0xFFFFFFFF are reserved and
[SECURITY-ID]
to minimize security risks.

 gives advice on assigning transient numeric identiﬁers, such as the CC-ID, so as

MUST NOT

Reserved1 (16 bit):

Set to 'zero' while sending; ignored on receipt.

Flags (16 bit):

A ﬁeld used to carry any additional information pertaining to the CCI. Currently,

the following ﬂag bits are deﬁned:

•

O bit (out-label) : If the bit is set to '1', it speciﬁes the label is the out-label, and it is
mandatory to encode the next-hop information (via Address TLVs (Section 7.3.1) in the
CCI object). If the bit is not set, it speciﬁes the label is the in-label, and it is optional to
encode the local interface information (via Address TLVs in the CCI object).

•

C Bit (PCC allocation): If the bit is set to '1', it indicates that the label allocation needs to be
done by the PCC for the Central Controller Instruction. A PCE sets this bit to request the
PCC to make an allocation from its label space. A PCC would set this bit to indicate that it
has allocated the label and report it to the PCE.

•

All unassigned bits

MUST

 be set to 'zero' at transmission and ignored at receipt.

Label (20-bit):

The label information.

Reserved2 (12 bit):

Set to 'zero' while sending; ignored on receive.

7.3.1.  Address TLVs

[RFC8779]
 deﬁnes the IPV4-ADDRESS, IPV6-ADDRESS, and UNNUMBERED-ENDPOINT TLVs for
the use of Generalized Endpoint. The same TLVs can also be used in the CCI object to associate
the next-hop information in the case of an outgoing label and local interface information in the
case of an incoming label. The next-hop information encoded in these TLVs needs to be a directly

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9050

PCECC

July 2021

connected IP address/interface information. If the PCC is not able to resolve the next-hop
information, it
(PCECC failure) and Error-value=5 (Invalid next-hop information).

 reject the CCI and respond with a PCErr message with Error-Type=31

MUST

8.  Security Considerations

[RFC8283]

, the security considerations for a PCE-based controller are a little diﬀerent from

As per
those for any other PCE system. That is, the operation relies heavily on the use and security of
PCEP, so consideration should be given to the security features discussed in
 and the
additional mechanisms described in
controller architecture, such as a central point of failure, denial of service, and a focus for
interception and modiﬁcation of messages sent to individual Network Elements (NEs).

. It further lists the vulnerability of a central

[RFC5440]

[RFC8253]

In the PCECC operations, the PCEP sessions are also required to the internal routers, thus
increasing the resources required for the session management at the PCE.

, and

[RFC5440] [RFC8231]
,

The PCECC extension builds on the existing PCEP messages; thus, the security considerations
described in
 speciﬁes the
support of Transport Layer Security (TLS) in PCEP, as it provides support for peer authentication,
message encryption, and integrity. It further provides mechanisms for associating peer identities
with diﬀerent levels of access and/or authoritativeness via an attribute in X.509 certiﬁcates or a
local policy with a speciﬁc accept-list of X.509 certiﬁcates. This can be used to check the authority
for the PCECC operations. Additional considerations are discussed in following sections.

 continue to apply.

[RFC8253]

[RFC8281]

8.1.  Malicious PCE

In this extension, the PCE has complete control over the PCC to download/remove the labels and
can cause the LSPs to behave inappropriately and cause a major impact to the network. As a
general precaution, it is
authenticated and encrypted sessions across PCEs and PCCs belonging to the same administrative
authority, using TLS
195

, as per the recommendations and best current practices in BCP

 that this PCEP extension be activated on mutually

RECOMMENDED

[RFC8253]

[RFC7525]

.

Further, an attacker may ﬂood the PCC with the PCECC-related messages at a rate that exceeds
either the PCC's ability to process them or the network's ability to send them, by either spooﬁng
messages or compromising the PCE itself.
[RFC8281]
imposing a limit. The same can be used for the PCECC operations as well.

 provides a mechanism to protect the PCC by

As speciﬁed in Section 5.5.3.1, a PCC needs to check if the label in the CCI object is in the range set
aside for the PCE; otherwise, it
and Error-value=1 (Label out of range).

 send a PCErr message with Error-Type=31 (PCECC failure)

MUST

8.2.  Malicious PCC

The PCECC mechanism described in this document requires the PCE to keep labels (CCI) that it
downloads and relies on the PCC responding (with either an acknowledgment or an error
message) to request for LSP instantiation. This is an additional attack surface by placing a

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9050

PCECC

July 2021

requirement for the PCE to keep a CCI/label replica for each PCC. It is
implementations provide a limit on resources (in this case the CCI) a single PCC can occupy.
[RFC8231]

 provides a notiﬁcation mechanism when such threshold is reached.

RECOMMENDED

 that PCE

9.  Manageability Considerations

9.1.  Control of Function and Policy

A PCE or PCC implementation
of the global conﬁguration.
Path Setup Type. They are also applicable to the PCECC Path Setup Types. Further,
[RFC8664]

 allow the PCECC capability to be enabled/disabled as part
 list various controlling factors regarding the
Section 6.2 of
 describes the migration steps when the Path Setup Type of an existing LSP is changed.

Section 6.1 of [RFC8664]

SHOULD

9.2.  Information and Data Models

[RFC7420]

 describes the PCEP MIB; this MIB can be extended to get the PCECC capability status.

The PCEP YANG module

[PCEP-YANG]

 could be extended to enable/disable the PCECC capability.

9.3.  Liveness Detection and Monitoring

Mechanisms deﬁned in this document do not imply any new liveness detection and monitoring
requirements in addition to those already listed in

.
[RFC5440]

9.4.  Verify Correct Operations

The operator needs the following information to verify that PCEP is operating correctly with
respect to the PCECC Path Setup Type.

•

An implementation
PCECC PST capability to its peer.

SHOULD

 allow the operator to view whether the PCEP speaker sent the

•

An implementation
capability.

SHOULD

 allow the operator to view whether the peer sent the PCECC PST

•

An implementation
a PCEP session.

SHOULD

 allow the operator to view whether the PCECC PST is enabled on

•

If one PCEP speaker advertises the PCECC PST capability, but the other does not, then the
 create a log to inform the operator of the capability mismatch.
implementation

SHOULD

•

If a PCEP speaker rejects a CCI, then it
reason for the decision (local policy, label issues, etc.).

SHOULD

 create a log to inform the operator, giving the

9.5.  Requirements on Other Protocols

PCEP extensions deﬁned in this document do not put new requirements on other protocols.

9.6.  Impact on Network Operations

PCEP extensions deﬁned in this document do not put new requirements on network operations.

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9050

PCECC

July 2021

10.  IANA Considerations

10.1.  PATH-SETUP-TYPE-CAPABILITY Sub-TLV Type Indicators

[RFC8408]
subregistry. Further, IANA has allocated the following codepoint:

 detailed the creation of the "PATH-SETUP-TYPE-CAPABILITY Sub-TLV Type Indicators"

Value Meaning

Reference

1

PCECC-CAPABILITY

RFC 9050

Table 2: PATH-SETUP-TYPE-CAPABILITY Sub-
TLV Type Indicators Subregistry Addition

10.2.  PCECC-CAPABILITY Sub-TLV's Flag Field

This document deﬁnes the PCECC-CAPABILITY sub-TLV; IANA has created a new subregistry to
manage the value of the PCECC-CAPABILITY sub-TLV's 32-bit Flag ﬁeld. New values are to be
assigned by Standards Action

. Each bit should be tracked with the following qualities:

[RFC8126]

•

bit number (counting from bit 0 as the most signiﬁcant bit)

•

capability description

•

deﬁning RFC

Currently, there is one allocation in this registry.

Bit

Name

Reference

0-30

Unassigned

RFC 9050

31

Label

RFC 9050

Table 3: Initial Contents of the PCECC-
CAPABILITY Sub-TLV Subregistry

10.3.  PCEP Path Setup Type Registry

 created a subregistry within the "Path Computation Element Protocol (PCEP)

[RFC8408]
Numbers" registry called "PCEP Path Setup Types". IANA has allocated a new codepoint within
this registry, as follows:

Value Description

Reference

2

Traﬃc engineering path is set up using PCECC mode

RFC 9050

Table 4: Path Setup Type Registry Codepoint Addition

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9050

PCECC

July 2021

10.4.  PCEP Object

IANA has allocated new codepoints in the "PCEP Objects" subregistry for the CCI object as
follows:

Object-Class Value Name

Object-Type

Reference

44

CCI Object-Type

0: Reserved

RFC 9050

1: MPLS Label

2-15: Unassigned

Table 5: PCEP Objects Subregistry Additions

10.5.  CCI Object Flag Field

IANA has created a new subregistry to manage the Flag ﬁeld of the CCI object called "CCI Object
Flag Field for MPLS Label". New values are to be assigned by Standards Action
. Each
bit should be tracked with the following qualities:

[RFC8126]

•

bit number (counting from bit 0 as the most signiﬁcant bit)

•

capability description

•

deﬁning RFC

Two bits are deﬁned for the CCI Object ﬂag ﬁeld in this document as follows:

Bit

Description

Reference

0-13

Unassigned

14

15

C Bit - PCC allocation

RFC 9050

O Bit - Speciﬁes label is out-label

RFC 9050

Table 6: CCI Object Flag Field for MPLS Label Initial
Contents

10.6.  PCEP-Error Object

IANA has allocated new error types and error values within the "PCEP-ERROR Object Error Types
and Values" subregistry of the "Path Computation Element Protocol (PCEP) Numbers" registry for
the following errors:

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9050

PCECC

July 2021

Meaning

Error-value

Reference

Error-
Type

6

10

19

Mandatory Object
missing

Reception of an
invalid object

Invalid Operation

31

PCECC failure

17: CCI object missing

RFC 9050

33: Missing PCECC Capability sub-TLV

RFC 9050

16: Attempted PCECC operations when
PCECC capability was not advertised
17: Stateful PCE capability was not
advertised
18: Unknown Label

1: Label out of range
2: Instruction failed
3: Invalid CCI
4: Unable to allocate the speciﬁed CCI
5: Invalid next-hop information

RFC 9050

RFC 9050

Table 7: PCEP-ERROR Object Error Types and Values Additions

11.  References

11.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC5440]

[RFC5511]

[RFC7525]

[RFC8126]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

 and

Vasseur, JP., Ed.
,
Communication Protocol (PCEP)" RFC 5440 DOI 10.17487/RFC5440
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5440>

JL. Le Roux, Ed. "Path Computation Element (PCE)

,

.

,

, March 2009,

,

Farrel, A. "Routing Backus-Naur Form (RBNF): A Syntax Used to Form Encoding
Rules in Various Routing Protocol Speciﬁcations" RFC 5511 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5511

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5511>

, April 2009,

,

,

.

,

, and

P. Saint-Andre "Recommendations for Secure Use of

,
Sheﬀer, Y. Holz, R.
Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)"
BCP 195 RFC 7525 DOI 10.17487/RFC7525
editor.org/info/rfc7525>

<https://www.rfc-

, May 2015,

,

,

.

,

,
Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

.

,

,

, June

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 9050

PCECC

July 2021

[RFC8174]

[RFC8231]

[RFC8253]

[RFC8281]

[RFC8408]

[RFC8664]

[RFC8779]

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Crabbe, E. Minei, I. Medved, J.
Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for Stateful PCE" RFC 8231 DOI
10.17487/RFC8231

R. Varga "Path Computation Element

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8231>

, September 2017,

, and

,

,

,

,

.

,

Lopez, D. Gonzalez de Dios, O. Wu, Q.
Provide a Secure Transport for the Path Computation Element Communication
,
Protocol (PCEP)" RFC 8253 DOI 10.17487/RFC8253
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8253>

D. Dhody "PCEPS: Usage of TLS to

, October 2017,

<https://

, and

,

,

.

,

,

,

Crabbe, E. Minei, I. Sivabalan, S.
R. Varga "Path Computation Element
Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for PCE-Initiated LSP Setup in a
Stateful PCE Model" RFC 8281 DOI 10.17487/RFC8281
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8281>

, December 2017,

, and

,

,

,

.

<https://

,

Sivabalan, S. Tantsura, J. Minei, I. Varga, R.
Setup Type in PCE Communication Protocol (PCEP) Messages" RFC 8408 DOI
10.17487/RFC8408

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8408>

J. Hardwick "Conveying Path

, July 2018,

, and

,
,

.

,

,

,

,

,

Sivabalan, S. Filsﬁls, C. Tantsura, J. Henderickx, W.
Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for Segment
Routing" RFC 8664 DOI 10.17487/RFC8664
editor.org/info/rfc8664>

J. Hardwick "Path

, December 2019,

<https://www.rfc-

, and

,

,

,

.

,

,

Margaria, C., Ed. Gonzalez de Dios, O., Ed.
F. Zhang, Ed. "Path Computation
Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for GMPLS" RFC 8779 DOI
10.17487/RFC8779

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8779>

, July 2020,

, and

,

,

,

.

11.2.  Informative References

[RFC4655]

[RFC7025]

[RFC7399]

[RFC7420]

,
, and
Farrel, A. Vasseur, JP.
,
Architecture" RFC 4655 DOI 10.17487/RFC4655
editor.org/info/rfc4655>
.

,

,

J. Ash "A Path Computation Element (PCE)-Based

, August 2006,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,
Otani, T. Ogaki, K. Caviglia, D. Zhang, F.
,
GMPLS Applications of PCE" RFC 7025 DOI 10.17487/RFC7025
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7025>

, and

,

,

,

.

C. Margaria "Requirements for

, September 2013,

Farrel, A.
,
Architecture" RFC 7399 DOI 10.17487/RFC7399
.
editor.org/info/rfc7399>

 and
D. King "Unanswered Questions in the Path Computation Element
,
<https://www.rfc-

, October 2014,

,

,

,

Koushik, A. Stephan, E. Zhao, Q. King, D.
J. Hardwick "Path Computation
Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) Management Information Base (MIB)
Module" RFC 7420 DOI 10.17487/RFC7420
editor.org/info/rfc7420>

, December 2014,

<https://www.rfc-

, and

,

,

,

.

,

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 9050

PCECC

July 2021

[RFC7491]

[RFC8232]

[RFC8283]

[RFC8741]

[PCECC]

[PCEP-YANG]

[PCECC-SR]

[PCECC-SRv6]

[PCE-ID]

A. Farrel "A PCE-Based Architecture for Application-Based Network
King, D.
,
 and
Operations" RFC 7491 DOI 10.17487/RFC7491
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc7491>

<https://www.rfc-

, March 2015,

.

,

,

Crabbe, E. Minei, I. Medved, J. Varga, R. Zhang, X.
"Optimizations of Label Switched Path State Synchronization Procedures for a
,
Stateful PCE" RFC 8232 DOI 10.17487/RFC8232
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8232>

, September 2017,

D. Dhody

<https://

, and

,

,

,

.

,

,

Farrel, A., Ed. Zhao, Q., Ed. Li, Z.
and the PCE Communication Protocol (PCEP) in a Network with Central Control"
RFC 8283 DOI 10.17487/RFC8283
info/rfc8283>

C. Zhou "An Architecture for Use of PCE

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, December 2017,

, and

,

,

.

,

,

,

,
Raghuram, A. Goddard, A. Karthik, J. Sivabalan, S.
Stateful Path Computation Element (PCE) to Request and Obtain Control of a
,
Label Switched Path (LSP)" RFC 8741 DOI 10.17487/RFC8741
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8741>

, March 2020,

M. Negi "Ability for a

, and

,

,

,

.

,

,

,
, and

,
,
Li, Z. (. Dhody, D. Zhao, Q. Ke, K. Khasanov, B. Fang, L. Zhou, C. Zhang, B.
A. Gulida "The Use Cases for Path Computation Element
Rachitskiy, A.
,
(PCE) as a Central Controller (PCECC)." Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-
ietf-teas-pcecc-use-cases-07
draft-ietf-teas-pcecc-use-cases-07>

, 8 March 2021,
.

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/

,

,

,

,

,

,

Dhody, D., Ed. Hardwick, J. Beeram, V.
J. Tantsura "A YANG Data Model for
,
,
Path Computation Element Communications Protocol (PCEP)" Work in Progress
, 22 February 2021,
Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-pce-pcep-yang-16
<https://
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-pce-pcep-yang-16>

, and

,

,

.

,

,

,

, and

C. Zhou "PCEP Procedures and Protocol

Li, Z. Peng, S. Negi, M. S. Zhao, Q.
Extensions for Using PCE as a Central Controller (PCECC) for Segment Routing
(SR) MPLS Segment Identiﬁer (SID) Allocation and Distribution." Work in
Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-pce-pcep-extension-pce-controller-sr-02
March 2021,
pce-controller-sr-02>

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-pce-pcep-extension-

, 25

,

,

.

,

,

,

, and

M. S. Negi "PCEP Procedures and Protocol

,
Li, Z. Peng, S. Geng, X.
Extensions for Using PCE as a Central Controller (PCECC) for SRv6" Work in
,
Progress Internet-Draft, draft-dhody-pce-pcep-extension-pce-controller-srv6-06
21 February 2021,
extension-pce-controller-srv6-06>

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-dhody-pce-pcep-

,

.

,

,

,

Li, C. Chen, M. Wang, A. Cheng, W.
,
Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-li-pce-controlled-id-space-08
2021,

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-li-pce-controlled-id-space-08>

C. Zhou "PCE Controlled ID Space"

, and

, 22 February

,

,

,

.

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 9050

PCECC

July 2021

[SECURITY-ID]

,

 and

I. Arce "Security Considerations for Transient Numeric Identiﬁers

Gont, F.
Employed in Network Protocols" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-gont-
,
numeric-ids-sec-considerations-06
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-gont-numeric-ids-sec-considerations-06>

, 5 December 2020,

<https://

.

,

Acknowledgments

We would like to thank
their useful comments and suggestions.

,

Robert Tao Changjing Yan Tieying Huang Avantika
,

,

, and

Aijun Wang

 for

Thanks to
Thanks to

Julien Meuric
Deborah Brungard

 for being the responsible AD.

 for shepherding this document and providing valuable comments.

Thanks to
SECDIR review. Thanks to

Victoria Pritchard

 for a very detailed RTGDIR review. Thanks to
 for the Gen-ART review.

Gyan Mishra

Yaron Sheﬀer

 for the

Thanks to
Éric Vyncke

, and

Erik Kline

 for the IESG review.

Alvaro Retana Murray Kucherawy Benjamin Kaduk Roman Danyliw Robert Wilton

,

,

,

,

,

Contributors

Dhruv Dhody
Huawei Technologies
Divyashree Techno Park, Whiteﬁeld
Bangalore 560066
Karnataka
India
Email:

 dhruv.ietf@gmail.com

Satish Karunanithi
Huawei Technologies
Divyashree Techno Park, Whiteﬁeld
Bangalore 560066
Karnataka
India
Email:

 satishk@huawei.com

Adrian Farrel
Old Dog Consulting
United Kingdom
Email:

 adrian@olddog.co.uk

Xuesong Geng
Huawei Technologies
China
Email:

 gengxuesong@huawei.com

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 9050

PCECC

July 2021

Udayasree Palle
Email:

 udayasreereddy@gmail.com

Katherine Zhao
Futurewei Technologies
Email:

 katherine.zhao@futurewei.com

Boris Zhang
Telus Ltd.
Toronto
Canada
Email:

 boris.zhang@telus.com

Alex Tokar
Cisco Systems
Slovakia
Email:

 atokar@cisco.com

Authors' Addresses

Zhenbin Li
Huawei Technologies
Huawei Bld., No.156 Beiqing Rd.
Beijing
100095
China
Email:

 lizhenbin@huawei.com

Shuping Peng
Huawei Technologies
Huawei Bld., No.156 Beiqing Rd.
Beijing
100095
China
Email:

 pengshuping@huawei.com

Mahendra Singh Negi
RtBrick Inc
N-17L, 18th Cross Rd, HSR Layout
Bangalore 560102
Karnataka
India
Email:

 mahend.ietf@gmail.com

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 9050

PCECC

July 2021

Quintin Zhao
Etheric Networks
1009 S Claremont St.
San Mateo CA 94402
,
United States of America
Email:

 qzhao@ethericnetworks.com

Chao Zhou
HPE
Email:

 chaozhou_us@yahoo.com

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 33

