Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9443
5764, 7983
Standards Track
July 2023
2070-1721
B. Aboba
Microsoft Corporation

G. Salgueiro
Cisco Systems

C. Perkins
University of Glasgow

RFC 9443
Multiplexing Scheme Updates for QUIC

Abstract

RFC 7983 defines a scheme for a Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP) receiver to demultiplex
Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS), Session Traversal Utilities for NAT (STUN), Secure
Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP) / Secure Real-time Transport Control Protocol (SRTCP), ZRTP,
and Traversal Using Relays around NAT (TURN) channel packets arriving on a single port. This
document updates RFC 7983 and RFC 5764 to also allow QUIC packets to be multiplexed on a
single receiving socket.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9443
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Aboba, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9443

Multiplexing Scheme Updates for QUIC

July 2023

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Terminology

2.  Multiplexing of TURN Channels

3.  Updates to RFC 7983

4.  Security Considerations

5.  IANA Considerations

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

6.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

[RFC3550]

[RFC7983]

"Multiplexing Scheme Updates for Secure Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP) Extension for
Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)"
Transport Protocol (RTP)
Utilities for NAT (STUN)
Transport Control Protocol (SRTCP)
[RFC7983]
around NAT (TURN) channel packets arriving on a single port. This document updates
and "Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS) Extension to Establish Keys for the Secure Real-
time Transport Protocol (SRTP)"
 to be multiplexed on the
same port.

 defines a scheme for a Real-time
[RFC9147]

, Secure Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP) / Secure Real-time

 receiver to demultiplex DTLS

, and Traversal Using Relays

 to also allow QUIC

, Session Traversal

[RFC8489]

[RFC5764]

[RFC3711]

[RFC6189]

[RFC9000]

, ZRTP

 and

[P2P-QUIC]

The multiplexing scheme described in this document supports multiple use cases. In the WebRTC
[P2P-QUIC-TRIAL]
scenarios described in
, SRTP transports audio and video while
peer-to-peer QUIC is used for data exchange. For this use case, SRTP
; therefore, SRTP/SRTCP
DTLS-SRTP
multiplexed on the same port. Were SRTP to be keyed using QUIC-SRTP (not yet specified), SRTP/
SRTCP, STUN, TURN, and QUIC would need to be multiplexed on the same port. Where QUIC is
used for peer-to-peer transport of data as well as RTP/RTCP
QUIC need to be multiplexed on the same port.

, STUN, TURN, DTLS, and QUIC need to be

, STUN, TURN, and

[RTP-OVER-QUIC]

 is keyed using

[RFC3711]

[RFC3550]

[RFC5764]

Aboba, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9443

Multiplexing Scheme Updates for QUIC

July 2023

While the scheme described in this document is compatible with QUIC version 2
not compatible with QUIC bit greasing
multiplexing on their socket
MUST NOT

[RFC9287]
 send the grease_quic_bit transport parameter.

. As a result, endpoints that wish to use

[RFC9369]

, it is

1.1.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Multiplexing of TURN Channels

TURN channels are an optimization where data packets are exchanged with a 4-byte prefix
instead of the standard 36-byte STUN overhead (see
the values from 64 to 79 in order to allow TURN channels to be demultiplexed when the TURN
client does the channel binding request in combination with the demultiplexing scheme
described in

Section 3.5 of [RFC8656]

[RFC7983]
.

[RFC7983]

).

 allocates

In the absence of QUIC bit greasing, the first octet of a QUIC packet (e.g. a short header packet in
QUIC v1 or v2) may fall in the range 64 to 127, thereby overlapping with the allocated range for
TURN channels of 64 to 79. However, in practice this overlap does not represent a problem. TURN
channel packets will only be received from a TURN server to which TURN allocation and
channel-binding requests have been sent. Therefore, a TURN client receiving packets from the
source IP address and port of a TURN server only needs to disambiguate STUN (i.e., regular
TURN) packets from TURN channel packets; (S)RTP, (S)RTCP, ZRTP, DTLS, or QUIC packets will not
be sent from a source IP address and port that had previously responded to TURN allocation or
channel-binding requests.

As a result, if the source IP address and port of a packet do not match that of a responding TURN
server, a packet with a first octet of 64 to 127 can be unambiguously demultiplexed as QUIC.

3.  Updates to RFC 7983

This document updates the text in
follows:

Section 7 of [RFC7983]

 (which in turn updates

[RFC5764]

) as

OLD TEXT

The process for demultiplexing a packet is as follows. The receiver looks at the first byte
of the packet. If the value of this byte is in between 0 and 3 (inclusive), then the packet is
STUN. If the value is between 16 and 19 (inclusive), then the packet is ZRTP. If the value
is between 20 and 63 (inclusive), then the packet is DTLS. If the value is between 64 and
79 (inclusive), then the packet is TURN Channel. If the value is in between 128 and 191
(inclusive), then the packet is RTP (or RTCP, if both RTCP and RTP are being multiplexed

Aboba, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9443

Multiplexing Scheme Updates for QUIC

July 2023

over the same destination port). If the value does not match any known range, then the
packet
Figure 3.

 be logged. This process is summarized in

 be dropped and an alert

MUST

MAY

                 +----------------+
                 |        [0..3] -+--> forward to STUN
                 |                |
                 |      [16..19] -+--> forward to ZRTP
                 |                |
     packet -->  |      [20..63] -+--> forward to DTLS
                 |                |
                 |      [64..79] -+--> forward to TURN Channel
                 |                |
                 |    [128..191] -+--> forward to RTP/RTCP
                 +----------------+

Figure 3: The DTLS-SRTP receiver's packet demultiplexing algorithm.

END OLD TEXT

NEW TEXT

The process for demultiplexing a packet is as follows. The receiver looks at the first byte
of the packet. If the value of this byte is between 0 and 3 (inclusive), then the packet is
STUN. If the value is between 16 and 19 (inclusive), then the packet is ZRTP. If the value
is between 20 and 63 (inclusive), then the packet is DTLS. If the value is between 128 and
191 (inclusive), then the packet is RTP (or RTCP, if both RTCP and RTP are being
multiplexed over the same destination port). If the value is between 80 and 127
(inclusive) or between 192 and 255 (inclusive), then the packet is QUIC. If the value is
between 64 and 79 (inclusive) and the packet has a source IP address and port of a
responding TURN server, then the packet is TURN channel; if the source IP address and
port are not that of a responding TURN server, then the packet is QUIC.

If the value does not match any known range, then the packet
alert

 be logged. This process is summarized in Figure 3.

MAY

MUST

 be dropped and an

Aboba, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9443

Multiplexing Scheme Updates for QUIC

July 2023

                +----------------+
                |        [0..3] -+--> forward to STUN
                |                |
                |       [4..15] -+--> DROP
                |                |
                |      [16..19] -+--> forward to ZRTP
                |                |
    packet -->  |      [20..63] -+--> forward to DTLS
                |                |
                |      [64..79] -+--> forward to TURN Channel
                |                | (if from TURN server), else QUIC
                |     [80..127] -+--> forward to QUIC
                |                |
                |    [128..191] -+--> forward to RTP/RTCP
                |                |
                |    [192..255] -+--> forward to QUIC
                +----------------+

     Figure 3: The receiver's packet demultiplexing algorithm.

Note: Endpoints that wish to demultiplex QUIC
MUST NOT
[RFC9287]
.
transport parameter, as described in

 send the grease_quic_bit

END NEW TEXT

4.  Security Considerations

The solution discussed in this document could potentially introduce some additional security
. These additional concerns are described below.
issues beyond those described in

[RFC7983]

In order to support multiplexing of QUIC, this document adds logic to the scheme defined in
[RFC7983]
handlers to unexpected input.

. If misimplemented, the logic could potentially misclassify packets, exposing protocol

When QUIC is used solely for data exchange, the TLS-within-QUIC exchange
keys used solely to protect QUIC data packets. If properly implemented, this should not affect the
transport of SRTP or the derivation of SRTP keys via DTLS-SRTP. However, if a future
specification were to define use of the TLS- within-QUIC exchange to derive SRTP keys, both
transport and SRTP key derivation could be adversely impacted by a vulnerability in the QUIC
implementation.

[RFC9001]

 derives

5.  IANA Considerations

In the "TLS ContentType" registry, IANA replaced references to
document.

[RFC7983]

 with references to this

Aboba, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9443

Multiplexing Scheme Updates for QUIC

July 2023

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC3550]

[RFC3711]

[RFC5764]

[RFC7983]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8489]

[RFC8656]

[RFC9000]

[RFC9001]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Schulzrinne, H. Casner, S. Frederick, R.
Protocol for Real-Time Applications" STD 64 RFC 3550 DOI 10.17487/RFC3550
July 2003,

V. Jacobson "RTP: A Transport
, and
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3550>

,

,

,

,

.

,

,

Baugher, M. McGrew, D. Naslund, M. Carrara, E.
,
Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP)" RFC 3711 DOI 10.17487/RFC3711
2004,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3711>

, and

,
,

,
.

K. Norrman "The Secure
,

, March

 and

E. Rescorla "Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)

McGrew, D.
Extension to Establish Keys for the Secure Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP)"
RFC 5764 DOI 10.17487/RFC5764
rfc5764>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2010,

,
.

,

,

 and

Petit-Huguenin, M.
G. Salgueiro "Multiplexing Scheme Updates for Secure
Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP) Extension for Datagram Transport Layer
Security (DTLS)" RFC 7983 DOI 10.17487/RFC7983
<https://
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7983>

, September 2016,

,

,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Petit-Huguenin, M. Salgueiro, G. Rosenberg, J. Wing, D. Mahy, R.
, and
,
Matthews "Session Traversal Utilities for NAT (STUN)" RFC 8489 DOI 10.17487/
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8489>
RFC8489

, February 2020,

P.

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

Reddy, T., Ed. Johnston, A., Ed. Matthews, P.
Relays around NAT (TURN): Relay Extensions to Session Traversal Utilities for
NAT (STUN)" RFC 8656 DOI 10.17487/RFC8656
,
editor.org/info/rfc8656>
.

J. Rosenberg "Traversal Using

, February 2020,

<https://www.rfc-

, and

,

,

,

Iyengar, J., Ed.
Secure Transport" RFC 9000 DOI 10.17487/RFC9000
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9000>

 and
,

,

.

M. Thomson, Ed. "QUIC: A UDP-Based Multiplexed and

,

, May 2021,

<https://

Thomson, M., Ed.
10.17487/RFC9001

 and
, May 2021,

S. Turner, Ed. "Using TLS to Secure QUIC" RFC 9001 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9001>

,

,

,

.

Aboba, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9443

Multiplexing Scheme Updates for QUIC

July 2023

[RFC9147]

[RFC9287]

,

Rescorla, E. Tschofenig, H.
Security (DTLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 9147 DOI 10.17487/RFC9147
2022,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9147>

N. Modadugu "The Datagram Transport Layer

, April

, and

,
.

,

,

Thomson, M. "Greasing the QUIC Bit" RFC 9287 DOI 10.17487/RFC9287
2022,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9287>

,
.

,

,

, August

6.2.  Informative References

[P2P-QUIC]

,

Thatcher, P. Aboba, B.
Connections" W3C Community Group Draft Report commit 50d79c0
2023,

<https://www.w3.org/p2p-webtransport/>

R. Raymond "QUIC API For Peer-to-Peer

, and

,

,

,

.

, 20 May

[P2P-QUIC-TRIAL]

Hampson, S. "RTCQuicTransport Coming to an Origin Trial Near You

,

(Chrome 73)"
rtcquictransport-api/>

, January 2019,

.

<https://developer.chrome.com/blog/

Zimmermann, P. Johnston, A., Ed.
,
Agreement for Unicast Secure RTP" RFC 6189 DOI 10.17487/RFC6189
2011,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6189>

J. Callas "ZRTP: Media Path Key

, and
,

,

.

, April

Duke, M. "QUIC Version 2" RFC 9369 DOI 10.17487/RFC9369
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9369>

,

,

,

.

, May 2023,

<https://

[RFC6189]

[RFC9369]

[RTP-OVER-QUIC]

Ott, J. Engelbart, M.

,

, and

S. Dawkins "RTP over QUIC" Work in Progress

,

,

,

Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-avtcore-rtp-over-quic-04
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-avtcore-rtp-over-quic-04>

, 10 July 2023,

.

<https://

Acknowledgments

We would like to thank
, and other participants in
the IETF QUIC and AVTCORE Working Groups for their discussion of the QUIC multiplexing issue,
and their input relating to potential solutions.

Martin Thomson Roni Even Jonathan Lennox

,

,

Authors' Addresses

Bernard Aboba
Microsoft Corporation
One Microsoft Way
Redmond WA 98052
,
United States of America
Email:

 bernard.aboba@gmail.com

Aboba, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9443

Multiplexing Scheme Updates for QUIC

July 2023

Gonzalo Salgueiro
Cisco Systems
7200-12 Kit Creek Road
Research Triangle Park NC 27709
,
United States of America
Email:

 gsalguei@cisco.com

Colin Perkins
School of Computing Science
University of Glasgow
Glasgow
G12 8QQ
United Kingdom
Email:

 csp@csperkins.org

Aboba, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

