Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9202
Standards Track
August 2022
2070-1721
S. Gerdes
Universität Bremen TZI

O. Bergmann
Universität Bremen TZI

G. Selander
Ericsson AB

L. Seitz
Combitech

C. Bormann
Universität Bremen TZI

RFC 9202
Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS) Profile
for Authentication and Authorization for
Constrained Environments (ACE)

Abstract

This specification defines a profile of the Authentication and Authorization for Constrained
Environments (ACE) framework that allows constrained servers to delegate client authentication
and authorization. The protocol relies on DTLS version 1.2 or later for communication security
between entities in a constrained network using either raw public keys or pre-shared keys. A
resource-constrained server can use this protocol to delegate management of authorization
information to a trusted host with less-severe limitations regarding processing power and
memory.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9202
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Gerdes, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9202

DTLS Profile for ACE

August 2022

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Terminology

2.  Protocol Overview

3.  Protocol Flow

3.1.  Communication between the Client and the Authorization Server

3.2.  Raw Public Key Mode

3.2.1.  Access Token Retrieval from the Authorization Server

3.2.2.  DTLS Channel Setup between the Client and Resource Server

3.3.  Pre-shared Key Mode

3.3.1.  Access Token Retrieval from the Authorization Server

3.3.2.  DTLS Channel Setup between the Client and Resource Server

3.4.  Resource Access

4.  Dynamic Update of Authorization Information

5.  Token Expiration

6.  Secure Communication with an Authorization Server

7.  Security Considerations

7.1.  Reuse of Existing Sessions

7.2.  Multiple Access Tokens

7.3.  Out-of-Band Configuration

8.  Privacy Considerations

9.  IANA Considerations

10. References

10.1.  Normative References

10.2.  Informative References

Gerdes, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9202

DTLS Profile for ACE

August 2022

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

[RFC9147]

[RFC6347]

[RFC9200]

. In this profile, a client (C)
[RFC7252]

 to communicate. This specification uses DTLS 1.2 terminology, but later

This specification defines a profile of the ACE framework
and a resource server (RS) use the Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP)
version 1.2
versions such as DTLS 1.3
bound to a key (the proof-of-possession (PoP) key) from an authorization server (AS) to prove its
authorization to access protected resources hosted by the resource server. Also, the client and the
resource server are provided by the authorization server with the necessary keying material to
establish a DTLS session. The communication between the client and authorization server may
also be secured with DTLS. This specification supports DTLS with raw public keys (RPKs)
[RFC7250]
performed between the RS and AS is out of scope for this specification.

 can be used instead. The client obtains an access token

 and with pre-shared keys (PSKs)

. How token introspection

 over DTLS

[RFC4279]

[RFC7662]

 is

The ACE framework requires that the client and server mutually authenticate each other before
any application data is exchanged. DTLS enables mutual authentication if both the client and
server prove their ability to use certain keying material in the DTLS handshake. The
authorization server assists in this process on the server side by incorporating keying material
(or information about keying material) into the access token, which is considered a proof-of-
possession token.

In the RPK mode, the client proves that it can use the RPK bound to the token and the server
shows that it can use a certain RPK.

The resource server needs access to the token in order to complete this exchange. For the RPK
mode, the client must upload the access token to the resource server before initiating the
handshake, as described in

Section 5.10.1 of the ACE framework [RFC9200]
.

In the PSK mode, the client and server show with the DTLS handshake that they can use the
keying material that is bound to the access token. To transfer the access token from the client to
the resource server, the psk_identity parameter in the DTLS PSK handshake may be used
instead of uploading the token prior to the handshake.

As recommended in
Representation (CBOR) web tokens to convey claims within an access token issued by the server.
While other formats could be used as well, those are out of scope for this document.

, this specification uses Concise Binary Object

Section 5.8 of [RFC9200]

Gerdes, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9202

DTLS Profile for ACE

August 2022

1.1.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

Readers are expected to be familiar with the terms and concepts described in
[RFC9201]
.

[RFC9200]

 and

The authorization information (authz-info) resource refers to the authorization information
. The term claim is used in this document with the same
endpoint, as specified in
semantics as in
from introspection.

, i.e., it denotes information carried in the access token or returned

[RFC9200]

[RFC9200]

Throughout this document, examples for CBOR data items are expressed in CBOR extended
diagnostic notation as defined in
("diagnostic notation"), unless noted otherwise. We often use diagnostic notation comments to
provide a textual representation of the numeric parameter names and values.

Appendix G of [RFC8610]

Section 8 of [RFC8949]

 and

2.  Protocol Overview

The CoAP-DTLS profile for ACE specifies the transfer of authentication information and, if
necessary, authorization information between the client (C) and the resource server (RS) during
setup of a DTLS session for CoAP messaging. It also specifies how the client can use CoAP over
DTLS to retrieve an access token from the authorization server (AS) for a protected resource
hosted on the resource server. As specified in
, use of DTLS for one or
both of these interactions is completely independent.

Section 6.7 of [RFC9200]

This profile requires the client to retrieve an access token for the protected resource(s) it wants
to access on the resource server, as specified in
flow in this scenario (messages in square brackets are optional):

. Figure 1 shows the typical message

[RFC9200]

   C                                RS                   AS
   | [---- Resource Request ------>]|                     |
   |                                |                     |
   | [<-AS Request Creation Hints-] |                     |
   |                                |                     |
   | ------- Token Request  ----------------------------> |
   |                                |                     |
   | <---------------------------- Access Token --------- |
   |                               + Access Information   |

Figure 1: Retrieving an Access Token

Gerdes, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9202

DTLS Profile for ACE

August 2022

To determine the authorization server in charge of a resource hosted at the resource server, the
client can send an initial Unauthorized Resource Request message to the resource server. The
resource server then denies the request and sends an AS Request Creation Hints message
containing the address of its authorization server back to the client, as specified in
[RFC9200]
.

Section 5.3 of

Once the client knows the authorization server's address, it can send an access token request to
the token endpoint at the authorization server, as specified in
request and the response may contain confidential data, the communication between the client
and the authorization server must be confidentiality protected and ensure authenticity. The
client is expected to have been registered at the authorization server, as outlined in
[RFC9200]
.

. As the access token

[RFC9200]

Section 4 of

The access token returned by the authorization server can then be used by the client to establish
a new DTLS session with the resource server. When the client intends to use an asymmetric
proof-of-possession key in the DTLS handshake with the resource server, the client
the access token to the authz-info resource, i.e., the authz-info endpoint, on the resource server
before starting the DTLS handshake, as described in
uses a symmetric proof-of-possession key in the DTLS handshake, the procedure above
used, or alternatively the access token
ClientKeyExchange message (see Section 3.3.2). In any case, DTLS
provides replay protection.

 instead be transferred in the DTLS

Section 5.10.1 of [RFC9200]

 be used in a mode that

. In case the client

 upload

MUST

MUST

MAY

MAY

 be

Figure 2 depicts the common protocol flow for the DTLS profile after the client has retrieved the
access token from the authorization server (AS).

   C                            RS                   AS
   | [--- Access Token ------>] |                     |
   |                            |                     |
   | <== DTLS channel setup ==> |                     |
   |                            |                     |
   | == Authorized Request ===> |                     |
   |                            |                     |
   | <=== Protected Resource == |                     |

Figure 2: Protocol Overview

3.  Protocol Flow

The following sections specify how CoAP is used to interchange access-related data between the
resource server, the client, and the authorization server so that the authorization server can
provide the client and the resource server with sufficient information to establish a secure
channel and convey authorization information specific for this communication relationship to
the resource server.

Gerdes, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9202

DTLS Profile for ACE

August 2022

Section 3.1 describes how the communication between the client (C) and the authorization server
(AS) must be secured. Depending on the CoAP security mode used (see also
[RFC7252]
), the client-to-AS request, AS-to-client response, and DTLS session establishment carry
slightly different information. Section 3.2 addresses the use of raw public keys, while Section 3.3
defines how pre-shared keys are used in this profile.

Section 9 of

3.1.  Communication between the Client and the Authorization Server

To retrieve an access token for the resource that the client wants to access, the client requests an
access token from the authorization server. Before the client can request the access token, the
client and the authorization server
assumes that the keying material to secure this communication channel has securely been
obtained either by manual configuration or in an automated provisioning process. The following
requirements, in alignment with

 establish a secure communication channel. This profile

, therefore must be met:

Section 6.5 of [RFC9200]

MUST

•

The client
authorization server.

MUST

 securely have obtained keying material to communicate with the

•

Furthermore, the client
 verify that the authorization server is authorized to provide
access tokens (including authorization information) about the resource server to the client
and that this authorization information about the authorization server is still valid.

MUST

•

Also, the authorization server
and obtained authorization rules approved by the resource owner (RO) concerning the client
and the resource server that relate to this keying material.

 securely have obtained keying material for the client

MUST

The client and the authorization server
exchanged messages. How the security association between the client and the authorization
server is bootstrapped is not part of this document. The client and the authorization server must
ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and authenticity of all exchanged messages within the ACE
protocol.

 use their respective keying material for all

MUST

Section 6 specifies how communication with the authorization server is secured.

3.2.  Raw Public Key Mode

When the client uses raw public key authentication, the procedure is as described in the
following.

3.2.1.  Access Token Retrieval from the Authorization Server

After the client and the authorization server mutually authenticated each other and validated
each other's authorization, the client sends a token request to the authorization server's token
endpoint. The client
 add a req_cnf object carrying either its raw public key or a unique
identifier for a public key that it has previously made known to the authorization server. It is
RECOMMENDED
communication with the authorization server, proving possession of the key as part of the token
request. Other mechanisms for proving possession of the key may be defined in the future.

 that the client uses DTLS with the same keying material to secure the

MUST

Gerdes, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9202

DTLS Profile for ACE

August 2022

An example access token request from the client to the authorization server is depicted in Figure
3.

   POST coaps://as.example.com/token
   Content-Format: application/ace+cbor
   Payload:
   {
     / grant_type / 33 : / client_credentials / 2,
     / audience /    5 : "tempSensor4711",
     / req_cnf /     4 : {
       / COSE_Key / 1 : {
         / kty /  1 : / EC2 /   2,
         / crv / -1 : / P-256 / 1,
         / x /   -2 : h'e866c35f4c3c81bb96a1/.../',
         / y /   -3 : h'2e25556be097c8778a20/.../'
       }
     }
   }

Figure 3: Access Token Request Example for RPK Mode

The example shows an access token request for the resource identified by the string
"tempSensor4711" on the authorization server using a raw public key.

MUST

 check if the client that it communicates with is associated with

The authorization server
the RPK in the req_cnf parameter before issuing an access token to it. If the authorization server
determines that the request is to be authorized according to the respective authorization rules, it
generates an access token response for the client. The access token
 be bound to the RPK of
the client by means of the cnf claim.

MUST

MAY

MUST

 contain this parameter otherwise (see

 contain an ace_profile parameter if the ace_profile parameter in the

The response
Section 5.8.2 of [RFC9200]
request is empty and
 be used for communication
parameter is set to coap_dtls to indicate that this profile
between the client and the resource server. The response also contains an access token with
information for the resource server about the client's public key. The authorization server
MUST
return in its response the parameter rs_cnf unless it is certain that the client already knows the
 ascertain that the RPK specified
public key of the resource server. The authorization server
in rs_cnf belongs to the resource server that the client wants to communicate with. The
authorization server
can detect unauthorized changes. If the access token contains confidential data, the
authorization server

 protect the integrity of the access token such that the resource server

 also protect the confidentiality of the access token.

). This

MUST

MUST

MUST

MUST

MUST

 ascertain that the access token response belongs to a certain, previously sent

The client
access token request, as the request may specify the resource server with which the client wants
to communicate.

An example access token response from the authorization server to the client is depicted in
Figure 4. Here, the contents of the access_token claim have been truncated to improve
readability. For the client, the response comprises Access Information that contains the server's

Gerdes, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9202

DTLS Profile for ACE

August 2022

public key in the rs_cnf parameter. Caching proxies process the Max-Age option in the CoAP
response, which has a default value of 60 seconds (
server
parameter to avoid stale responses.

 adjust the Max-Age option such that it does not exceed the expires_in

Section 5.6.1 of [RFC7252]

SHOULD

). The authorization

   2.01 Created
   Content-Format: application/ace+cbor
   Max-Age: 3560
   Payload:
   {
     / access_token / 1 : b64'SlAV32hk'/...
      (remainder of CWT omitted for brevity;
      CWT contains the client's RPK in the cnf claim)/,
     / expires_in /  2 : 3600,
     / rs_cnf /     41 : {
       / COSE_Key /  1 : {
         / kty /  1 : / EC2 /   2,
         / crv / -1 : / P-256 / 1,
         / x /   -2 : h'd7cc072de2205bdc1537/.../',
         / y /   -3 : h'f95e1d4b851a2cc80fff/.../'
       }
     }
   }

Figure 4: Access Token Response Example for RPK Mode

3.2.2.  DTLS Channel Setup between the Client and Resource Server

Before the client initiates the DTLS handshake with the resource server, the client
POST request containing the obtained access token to the authz-info resource hosted by the
resource server. After the client receives a confirmation that the resource server has accepted
the access token, it proceeds to establish a new DTLS channel with the resource server. The client
 use its correct public key in the DTLS handshake. If the authorization server has specified a
MUST
 use this key. Otherwise, the client
cnf field in the access token response, the client
MUST
use the public key that it specified in the req_cnf of the access token request. The client
specify this public key in the SubjectPublicKeyInfo structure of the DTLS handshake, as described
in

[RFC7250]
.

 send a

MUST

MUST

MUST

If the client does not have the keying material belonging to the public key, the client
 try to
send an access token request to the AS, where the client specifies its public key in the req_cnf
parameter. If the AS still specifies a public key in the response that the client does not have, the
client
process is out of scope for this document.

 re-register with the authorization server to establish a new client public key. This

SHOULD

MAY

[RFC7252]

To be consistent with
, which allows for shortened Message Authentication Code (MAC)
tags in constrained environments, an implementation that supports the RPK mode of this profile
. As
MUST
discussed in
that are considered superior to the so-called NIST curves. Implementations of this profile

 at least support the cipher suite TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_128_CCM_8

, new Elliptic Curve Cryptography (ECC) curves have been defined recently

[RFC7748]

[RFC7251]

MUST

Gerdes, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9202

DTLS Profile for ACE

August 2022

therefore implement support for curve25519 (cf.
efficient and less dangerous, regarding implementation errors, than the secp256r1 curve
mandated in

[RFC8032] [RFC8422]
,

[RFC7252]
.

), as this curve is said to be

MUST

Section 5.10.1.1 of [RFC9200]

 check if the access token is still valid, if the resource server is the

The resource server
intended destination (i.e., the audience) of the token, and if the token was issued by an
authorized authorization server (see also
constructed by the authorization server such that the resource server can associate the access
 contain either the client's RPK or, if the
token with the client's public key. The cnf claim
key is already known by the resource server (e.g., from previous communication), a reference to
this key. If the authorization server has no certain knowledge that the client's key is already
known to the resource server, the client's public key
parameter. If CBOR web tokens
be encoded as specified in
access token for every proof-of-possession key of every authorized client.

 be included in the access token's cnf
[RFC9200]
MUST
 have the capacity to store one

 are used (as recommended in

). The access token is

. A resource server

[RFC8747]

[RFC8392]

), keys

MUST

MUST

MUST

The raw public key used in the DTLS handshake with the client
server. If the resource server has several raw public keys, it needs to determine which key to use.
The authorization server can help with this decision by including a cnf parameter in the access
 use the
token that is associated with this communication. In this case, the resource server
information from the cnf field to select the proper keying material.

 belong to the resource

MUST

MUST

Thus, the handshake only finishes if the client and the resource server are able to use their
respective keying material.

3.3.  Pre-shared Key Mode

When the client uses pre-shared key authentication, the procedure is as described in the
following.

3.3.1.  Access Token Retrieval from the Authorization Server

To retrieve an access token for the resource that the client wants to access, the client
a req_cnf object carrying an identifier for a symmetric key in its access token request to the
authorization server. This identifier can be used by the authorization server to determine the
shared secret to construct the proof-of-possession token. The authorization server
the identifier refers to a symmetric key that was previously generated by the authorization
server as a shared secret for the communication between this client and the resource server. If
no such symmetric key was found, the authorization server
that is returned in its response to the client.

 generate a new symmetric key

 check if

MUST

MUST

MAY

 include

MUST

 determine the authorization rules for the client it communicates

The authorization server
with, as defined by the resource owner, and generate the access token accordingly. If the
authorization server authorizes the client, it returns an AS-to-client response. If the ace_profile
parameter is present, it is set to coap_dtls. The authorization server
access token is generated for the resource server that the client wants to communicate with. Also,
the authorization server
resource server can detect unauthorized changes. If the token contains confidential data, such as

 protect the integrity of the access token to ensure that the

 ascertain that the

MUST

MUST

Gerdes, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9202

DTLS Profile for ACE

August 2022

MUST

 also be protected. Depending on the

the symmetric key, the confidentiality of the token
requested token type and algorithm in the access token request, the authorization server adds
Access Information to the response that provides the client with sufficient information to set up a
DTLS channel with the resource server. The authorization server adds a cnf parameter to the
Access Information carrying a COSE_Key object that informs the client about the shared secret
that is to be used between the client and the resource server. To convey the same secret to the
resource server, the authorization server can include it directly in the access token by means of
the cnf claim or provide sufficient information to enable the resource server to derive the
shared secret from the access token. As an alternative, the resource server
 use token
introspection to retrieve the keying material for this access token directly from the authorization
server.

MAY

An example access token request for an access token with a symmetric proof-of-possession key is
illustrated in Figure 5.

   POST coaps://as.example.com/token
   Content-Format: application/ace+cbor
   Payload:
   {
     / audience / 5 : "smokeSensor1807"
   }

Figure 5: Example Access Token Request, (Implicit) Symmetric PoP Key

A corresponding example access token response is illustrated in Figure 6. In this example, the
authorization server returns a 2.01 response containing a new access token (truncated to
improve readability) and information for the client, including the symmetric key in the cnf
claim. The information is transferred as a CBOR data structure as specified in

[RFC9200]
.

   2.01 Created
   Content-Format: application/ace+cbor
   Max-Age: 85800
   Payload:
   {
      / access_token /  1 : h'd08343a1/...
        (remainder of CWT omitted for brevity)/',
      / token_type /   34 : / PoP / 2,
      / expires_in /    2 : 86400,
      / ace_profile /  38 : / coap_dtls / 1,
      / cnf /           8 : {
        / COSE_Key / 1 : {
          / kty / 1 : / symmetric / 4,
          / kid / 2 : h'3d027833fc6267ce',
          / k /  -1 : h'73657373696f6e6b6579'
        }
      }
   }

Figure 6: Example Access Token Response, Symmetric PoP Key

Gerdes, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9202

DTLS Profile for ACE

August 2022

The access token also comprises a cnf claim. This claim usually contains a COSE_Key object
[RFC8152]
 that carries either the symmetric key itself or a key identifier that can be used by the
resource server to determine the secret key it shares with the client. If the access token carries a
symmetric key, the access token
7.1 of [RFC8392]
resource server to encrypt the token.

 be encrypted using a COSE_Encrypt0 structure (see
 use the keying material shared with the

). The authorization server

MUST

MUST

Section

The cnf structure in the access token is provided in Figure 7.

/ cnf / 8 : {
  / COSE_Key / 1 : {
    / kty / 1 : / symmetric / 4,
    / kid / 2 : h'3d027833fc6267ce'
  }
}

Figure 7: Access Token without Keying Material

A response that declines any operation on the requested resource is constructed according to
Section 5.2 of [RFC6749]
that has been rejected due to invalid request parameters.

). Figure 8 shows an example for a request

Section 5.8.3 of [RFC9200]

 (cf.

    4.00 Bad Request
    Content-Format: application/ace+cbor
    Payload:
    {
      / error / 30 : / invalid_request / 1
    }

Figure 8: Example Access Token Response with Reject

The method for how the resource server determines the symmetric key from an access token
containing only a key identifier is application specific; the remainder of this section provides one
example.

The authorization server and the resource server are assumed to share a key derivation key used
to derive the symmetric key shared with the client from the key identifier in the access token.
The key derivation key may be derived from some other secret key shared between the
authorization server and the resource server. This key needs to be securely stored and processed
in the same way as the key used to protect the communication between the authorization server
and the resource server.

Knowledge of the symmetric key shared with the client must not reveal any information about
the key derivation key or other secret keys shared between the authorization server and
resource server.

Gerdes, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9202

DTLS Profile for ACE

August 2022

MUST

In order to generate a new symmetric key to be used by the client and resource server, the
authorization server generates a new key identifier that
identifiers used by the authorization server for this resource server. The authorization server
then uses the key derivation key shared with the resource server to derive the symmetric key, as
specified below. Instead of providing the keying material in the access token, the authorization
server includes the key identifier in the kid parameter (see Figure 7). This key identifier enables
the resource server to calculate the symmetric key used for the communication with the client
using the key derivation key and a key derivation function (KDF) to be defined by the application,
for example, HKDF-SHA-256. The key identifier picked by the authorization server
unique for each access token where a unique symmetric key is required.

 be unique among all key

MUST

 be

In this example, the HMAC-based key derivation function (HKDF) consists of the composition of
[RFC5869]
the HKDF-Extract and HKDF-Expand steps
identifier, the key derivation key, and other data:

. The symmetric key is derived from the key

OKM = HKDF(salt, IKM, info, L),

where:

•

OKM, the output keying material, is the derived symmetric key

•

salt is the empty byte string

•

IKM, the input keying material, is the key derivation key, as defined above

•

info is the serialization of a CBOR array consisting of

[RFC8610]
:

      info = [
        type : tstr,
        L    : uint,
        access_token : bytes
      ]

where:
◦

type is set to the constant text string "ACE-CoAP-DTLS-key-derivation"

◦

L is the size of the symmetric key in bytes

◦

access_token is the content of the access_token field, as transferred from the
authorization server to the resource server.

All CBOR data types are encoded in CBOR using preferred serialization and deterministic
encoding, as specified in
components use the minimum length encoding. The content of the access_token field is treated
as opaque data for the purpose of key derivation.

. In particular, this implies that the type and L

Section 4 of [RFC8949]

Use of a unique (per-resource-server) kid and the use of a key derivation IKM that
unique per AS/RS pair, as specified above, will ensure that the derived key is not shared across
multiple clients. However, to provide variation in the derived key across different tokens used by
the same client, it is additionally
exi claims in the access token.

 to include the iat claim and either the exp or

RECOMMENDED

MUST

 be

Gerdes, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9202

DTLS Profile for ACE

August 2022

3.3.2.  DTLS Channel Setup between the Client and Resource Server

When a client receives an access token response from an authorization server, the client
check if the access token response is bound to a certain, previously sent access token request, as
the request may specify the resource server with which the client wants to communicate.

MUST

The client checks if the payload of the access token response contains an access_token
parameter and a cnf parameter. With this information, the client can initiate the establishment
of a new DTLS channel with a resource server. To use DTLS with pre-shared keys, the client
follows the PSK key exchange algorithm specified in
conveyed in the cnf parameter of the AS response as a PSK when constructing the premaster
secret. To be consistent with the recommendations in
support the cipher suite TLS_PSK_WITH_AES_128_CCM_8

, a client in the PSK mode

Section 2 of [RFC4279]

, using the key

[RFC6655]
.

[RFC7252]

MUST

In PreSharedKey mode, the knowledge of the shared secret by the client and the resource server
is used for mutual authentication between both peers. Therefore, the resource server must be
able to determine the shared secret from the access token. Following the general ACE
authorization framework, the client can upload the access token to the resource server's authz-
info resource before starting the DTLS handshake. The client then needs to indicate during the
DTLS handshake which previously uploaded access token it intends to use. To do so, it
MUST
create a COSE_Key structure with the kid that was conveyed in the rs_cnf claim in the token
response from the authorization server and the key type symmetric. This structure then is
included as the only element in the cnf structure whose CBOR serialization is used as value for
psk_identity, as shown in Figure 9.

{ / cnf / 8 : {
   / COSE_Key / 1 : {
      / kty / 1 : / symmetric / 4,
      / kid / 2 : h'3d027833fc6267ce'
    }
  }
}

Figure 9: Access Token Containing a Single kid Parameter

The actual CBOR serialization for the data structure from Figure 9 as a sequence of bytes in
hexadecimal notation will be:

A1 08 A1 01 A2 01 04 02 48 3D 02 78 33 FC 62 67 CE

As an alternative to the access token upload, the client can provide the most recent access token
 treat the
in the psk_identity field of the ClientKeyExchange message. To do so, the client
contents of the access_token field from the AS-to-client response as opaque data, as specified in
Section 4.2 of [RFC7925]
retrieve the shared secret directly from the cnf claim of the access token.

, and not perform any recoding. This allows the resource server to

MUST

Gerdes, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9202

DTLS Profile for ACE

August 2022

[RFC9147]

DTLS 1.3
is placed in the identity field of a PSKIdentity within the PreSharedKeyExtension of the
ClientHello.

 does not use the ClientKeyExchange message; for DTLS 1.3, the access token

If a resource server receives a ClientKeyExchange message that contains a psk_identity with a
length greater than zero, it
structure and process the contents as following:

 parse the contents of the psk_identity field as a CBOR data

MUST

•

If the data contains a cnf field with a COSE_Key structure with a kid, the resource server
continues the DTLS handshake with the associated key that corresponds to this kid.

•

If the data comprises additional CWT information, this information must be stored as an
access token for this DTLS association before continuing with the DTLS handshake.

If the contents of the psk_identity do not yield sufficient information to select a valid access
token for the requesting client, the resource server aborts the DTLS handshake with an
illegal_parameter alert.

MUST

When the resource server receives an access token, it
 check if the access token is still valid,
if the resource server is the intended destination (i.e., the audience of the token), and if the token
was issued by an authorized authorization server. This specification implements access tokens as
proof-of-possession tokens. Therefore, the access token is bound to a symmetric PoP key that is
used as a shared secret between the client and the resource server. A resource server
MUST
the capacity to store one access token for every proof-of-possession key of every authorized
client. The resource server may use token introspection
more information about the specific token. The use of introspection is out of scope for this
specification.

 on the access token to retrieve

[RFC7662]

 have

While the client can retrieve the shared secret from the contents of the cnf parameter in the AS-
to-client response, the resource server uses the information contained in the cnf claim of the
access token to determine the actual secret when no explicit kid was provided in the
psk_identity field. If key derivation is used, the cnf claim
used by the server as the IKM for key derivation, as described above.

 contain a kid parameter to be

MUST

3.4.  Resource Access

Once a DTLS channel has been established as described in either Sections 3.2 or 3.3, respectively,
the client is authorized to access resources covered by the access token it has uploaded to the
authz-info resource that is hosted by the resource server.

With the successful establishment of the DTLS channel, the client and the resource server have
proven that they can use their respective keying material. An access token that is bound to the
Section 5.10.1 of [RFC9200]
client's keying material is associated with the channel. According to
,
there should be only one access token for each client. New access tokens issued by the
authorization server
The resource server therefore needs a common understanding with the authorization server
about how access tokens are ordered. The authorization server may, e.g., specify a cti claim for
the access token (see

 replace previously issued access tokens for the respective client.

Section 5.9.2 of [RFC9200]

) to employ a strict order.

SHOULD

Gerdes, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9202

DTLS Profile for ACE

August 2022

MUST

Any request that the resource server receives on a DTLS channel that is tied to an access token
via its keying material
 be checked against the authorization rules that can be determined
with the access token. The resource server
still valid. If the token has expired, the resource server
that are not authorized with respect to any access token that is associated with the client
rejected by the resource server with a 4.01 response. The response
Creation Hints, as described in

MUST
 include AS Request

 check for every request if the access token is

 remove it. Incoming CoAP requests

Section 5.2 of [RFC9200]
.

SHOULD

MUST

MUST

 be

The resource server
following fails:

MUST NOT

 accept an incoming CoAP request as authorized if any of the

1.

The message was received on a secure channel that has been established using the
procedure defined in this document.

2.

The authorization information tied to the sending client is valid.

3.

The request is destined for the resource server.

4.

The resource URI specified in the request is covered by the authorization information.

5.

The request method is an authorized action on the resource with respect to the authorization
information.

Incoming CoAP requests received on a secure DTLS channel that are not thus authorized
be rejected according to

Section 5.10.2 of [RFC9200]
:

MUST

1.

with response code 4.03 (Forbidden) when the resource URI specified in the request is not
covered by the authorization information and

2.

with response code 4.05 (Method Not Allowed) when the resource URI specified in the
request is covered by the authorization information but not the requested action.

MUST

 ascertain that its keying material is still valid before sending a request or

The client
processing a response. If the client recently has updated the access token (see Section 4), it must
be prepared that its request is still handled according to the previous authorization rules, as
there is no strict ordering between access token uploads and resource access messages. See also
Section 7.2 for a discussion of access token processing.

If the client gets an error response containing AS Request Creation Hints (cf.
[RFC9200]
authorization server in order to continue communication with the resource server.

) as a response to its requests, it

 request a new access token from the

SHOULD

Section 5.3 of

Unauthorized requests that have been received over a DTLS session
nonfatal by the resource server, i.e., the DTLS session
access token has expired.

SHOULD

SHOULD

 be treated as

 be kept alive until the associated

4.  Dynamic Update of Authorization Information

Resource servers must only use a new access token to update the authorization information for a
DTLS session if the keying material that is bound to the token is the same that was used in the
DTLS handshake. By associating the access tokens with the identifier of an existing DTLS session,

Gerdes, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9202

DTLS Profile for ACE

August 2022

the authorization information can be updated without changing the cryptographic keys for the
DTLS communication between the client and the resource server, i.e., an existing session can be
used with updated permissions.

The client can therefore update the authorization information stored at the resource server at
any time without changing an established DTLS session. To do so, the client requests a new access
token from the authorization server for the intended action on the respective resource and
uploads this access token to the authz-info resource on the resource server.

Figure 10 depicts the message flow where the client requests a new access token after a security
association between the client and the resource server has been established using this protocol.
If the client wants to update the authorization information, the token request
 specify the
key identifier of the proof-of-possession key used for the existing DTLS channel between the
client and the resource server in the kid parameter of the client-to-AS request. The authorization
server
that has previously been issued to the requesting client. Otherwise, the client-to-AS request
be declined with the error code unsupported_pop_key, as defined in

 verify that the specified kid denotes a valid verifier for a proof-of-possession token
MUST
Section 5.8.3 of [RFC9200]
.

MUST

MUST

When the authorization server issues a new access token to update existing authorization
information, it
MUST
key identifier with the updated authorization information.

 include the specified kid parameter in this access token. A resource server
 replace the authorization information of any existing DTLS session that is identified by this

MUST

   C                            RS                   AS
   | <===== DTLS channel =====> |                     |
   |        + Access Token      |                     |
   |                            |                     |
   | --- Token Request  ----------------------------> |
   |                            |                     |
   | <---------------------------- New Access Token - |
   |                           + Access Information   |
   |                            |                     |
   | --- Update /authz-info --> |                     |
   |     New Access Token       |                     |
   |                            |                     |
   | == Authorized Request ===> |                     |
   |                            |                     |
   | <=== Protected Resource == |                     |

Figure 10: Overview of Dynamic Update Operation

5.  Token Expiration

The resource server
have been set up in accordance with this profile are always tied to specific tokens (which may be
exchanged with a dynamic update, as described in Section 4). As tokens may become invalid at

 delete access tokens that are no longer valid. DTLS associations that

MUST

Gerdes, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9202

DTLS Profile for ACE

August 2022

any time (e.g., because they have expired), the association may become useless at some point. A
resource server therefore
 terminate existing DTLS association after the last access token
associated with this association has expired.

MUST

Section 5.10.3 of [RFC9200]

As specified in
error response with code 4.01 (Unauthorized) for any long-running request before terminating
the association.

 notify the client with an

, the resource server

MUST

6.  Secure Communication with an Authorization Server

As specified in the ACE framework (Sections 5.8 and 5.9 of
resource server and/or the client) and the authorization server communicate via the token
endpoint or introspection endpoint. The use of CoAP and DTLS for this communication is
RECOMMENDED
Section 5 of [RFC9200] MAY

 in this profile. Other protocols fulfilling the security requirements defined in

 be used instead.

), the requesting entity (the

[RFC9200]

How credentials (e.g., PSK, RPK, X.509 cert) for using DTLS with the authorization server are
established is out of scope for this profile.

If other means of securing the communication with the authorization server are used, the
communication security requirements from

Section 6.2 of [RFC9200]

 remain applicable.

7.  Security Considerations

This document specifies a profile for the Authentication and Authorization for Constrained
Environments (ACE) framework
general security considerations from

. As it follows this framework's general approach, the

 also apply to this profile.

Section 6 of [RFC9200]

[RFC9200]

The authorization server must ascertain that the keying material for the client that it provides to
the resource server actually is associated with this client. Malicious clients may hand over access
tokens containing their own access permissions to other entities. This problem cannot be
completely eliminated. Nevertheless, in RPK mode, it should not be possible for clients to request
access tokens for arbitrary public keys; if the client can cause the authorization server to issue a
token for a public key without proving possession of the corresponding private key, this allows
for identity misbinding attacks, where the issued token is usable by an entity other than the
intended one. At some point, the authorization server therefore needs to validate that the client
can actually use the private key corresponding to the client's public key.

When using pre-shared keys provisioned by the authorization server, the security level depends
on the randomness of PSKs and the security of the TLS cipher suite and key exchange algorithm.
As this specification targets constrained environments, message payloads exchanged between
the client and the resource server are expected to be small and rare. CoAP
the implementation of cipher suites with abbreviated, 8-byte tags for message integrity
protection. For consistency, this profile requires implementation of the same cipher suites. For

 mandates

[RFC7252]

Gerdes, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9202

DTLS Profile for ACE

August 2022

application scenarios where the cost of full-width authentication tags is low compared to the
overall amount of data being transmitted, the use of cipher suites with 16-byte integrity
protection tags is preferred.

The PSK mode of this profile offers a distribution mechanism to convey authorization tokens
together with a shared secret to a client and a server. As this specification aims at constrained
[RFC7252]
devices and uses CoAP
TLS_PSK_WITH_AES_128_CCM_8
corresponding shared secrets generated by the authorization server are expected to be
sufficiently short-lived to provide similar forward-secrecy properties to using ephemeral Diffie-
Hellman (DHE) key exchange mechanisms. For longer-lived access tokens, DHE cipher suites
should be used, i.e., cipher suites of the form TLS_DHE_PSK_* or TLS_ECDHE_PSK_*.

 as the transfer protocol, at least the cipher suite
[RFC6655]

 should be supported. The access tokens and the

[RFC6347] [RFC9147]

Constrained devices that use DTLS
 are inherently vulnerable to Denial of
Service (DoS) attacks, as the handshake protocol requires creation of internal state within the
device. This is specifically of concern where an adversary is able to intercept the initial cookie
exchange and interject forged messages with a valid cookie to continue with the handshake. A
similar issue exists with the unprotected authorization information endpoint when the resource
server needs to keep valid access tokens for a long time. Adversaries could fill up the constrained
resource server's internal storage for a very long time with intercepted or otherwise retrieved
valid access tokens. To mitigate against this, the resource server should set a time boundary until
an access token that has not been used until then will be deleted.

The protection of access tokens that are stored in the authorization information endpoint
depends on the keying material that is used between the authorization server and the resource
server; the resource server must ensure that it processes only access tokens that are integrity
protected (and encrypted) by an authorization server that is authorized to provide access tokens
for the resource server.

7.1.  Reuse of Existing Sessions

[RFC8446]

 recommends session

[RFC7925]
To avoid the overhead of a repeated DTLS handshake,
 to reuse session state from an earlier DTLS association and thus requires
resumption
client-side implementation. In this specification, the DTLS session is subject to the authorization
rules denoted by the access token that was used for the initial setup of the DTLS association.
Enabling session resumption would require the server to transfer the authorization information
with the session state in an encrypted SessionTicket to the client. Assuming that the server uses
long-lived keying material, this could open up attacks due to the lack of forward secrecy.
Moreover, using this mechanism, a client can resume a DTLS session without proving the
possession of the PoP key again. Therefore, session resumption should be used only in
combination with reasonably short-lived PoP keys.

 requires that
Since renegotiation of DTLS associations is prone to attacks as well,
clients decline any renegotiation attempt. A server that wants to initiate rekeying therefore
SHOULD

 periodically force a full handshake.

[RFC7925]

Gerdes, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9202

DTLS Profile for ACE

August 2022

7.2.  Multiple Access Tokens

Implementers
[RFC9200]

).

SHOULD

 avoid using multiple access tokens for a client (see also

Section 5.10.1 of

Even when a single access token per client is used, an attacker could compromise the dynamic
update mechanism for existing DTLS connections by delaying or reordering packets destined for
the authz-info endpoint. Thus, the order in which operations occur at the resource server (and
thus which authorization info is used to process a given client request) cannot be guaranteed.
Especially in the presence of later-issued access tokens that reduce the client's permissions from
the initial access token, it is impossible to guarantee that the reduction in authorization will take
effect prior to the expiration of the original token.

7.3.  Out-of-Band Configuration

To communicate securely, the authorization server, the client, and the resource server require
certain information that must be exchanged outside the protocol flow described in this
document. The authorization server must have obtained authorization information concerning
the client and the resource server that is approved by the resource owner, as well as
corresponding keying material. The resource server must have received authorization
information approved by the resource owner concerning its authorization managers and the
respective keying material. The client must have obtained authorization information concerning
the authorization server approved by its owner, as well as the corresponding keying material.
Also, the client's owner must have approved of the client's communication with the resource
server. The client and the authorization server must have obtained a common understanding
about how this resource server is identified to ensure that the client obtains access tokens and
keying material for the correct resource server. If the client is provided with a raw public key for
the resource server, it must be ascertained to which resource server (which identifier and
authorization information) the key is associated. All authorization information and keying
material must be kept up to date.

8.  Privacy Considerations

This privacy considerations from

Section 7 of [RFC9200]

 apply also to this profile.

An unprotected response to an unauthorized request may disclose information about the
resource server and/or its existing relationship with the client. It is advisable to include as little
information as possible in an unencrypted response. When a DTLS session between an
authenticated client and the resource server already exists, more detailed information
included with an error response to provide the client with sufficient information to react on that
particular error.

MAY

 be

Also, unprotected requests to the resource server may reveal information about the client, e.g.,
which resources the client attempts to request or the data that the client wants to provide to the
resource server. The client

 send confidential data in an unprotected request.

SHOULD NOT

Gerdes, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9202

DTLS Profile for ACE

August 2022

Note that some information might still leak after the DTLS session is established, due to
observable message sizes, the source, and the destination addresses.

9.  IANA Considerations

The following registration has been made in the "ACE Profiles" registry, following the procedure
specified in

[RFC9200]
.

Name:
Description:

coap_dtls

Profile for delegating client Authentication and Authorization for Constrained

Environments by establishing a Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS) channel between
resource-constrained nodes.

CBOR Value:
Reference:

1

RFC 9202

10.  References

10.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC4279]

[RFC6347]

[RFC6749]

[RFC7250]

[RFC7251]

[RFC7252]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

 and

Eronen, P., Ed.
Transport Layer Security (TLS)" RFC 4279 DOI 10.17487/RFC4279
,
2005,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4279>

H. Tschofenig, Ed. "Pre-Shared Key Ciphersuites for

,

,

.

, December

 and

Rescorla, E.
RFC 6347 DOI 10.17487/RFC6347
rfc6347>

,
.

,

N. Modadugu "Datagram Transport Layer Security Version 1.2"
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, January 2012,

Hardt, D., Ed. "The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework" RFC 6749 DOI
10.17487/RFC6749

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6749>

, October 2012,

,

,

,

.

,

Wouters, P., Ed. Tschofenig, H., Ed. Gilmore, J. Weiler, S.
Raw Public Keys in Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport
Layer Security (DTLS)" RFC 7250 DOI 10.17487/RFC7250
<https://
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7250>
.

, June 2014,

, and

,

,

,

T. Kivinen "Using

,

,

R. Dugal "AES-CCM Elliptic Curve
, and
McGrew, D. Bailey, D. Campagna, M.
Cryptography (ECC) Cipher Suites for TLS" RFC 7251 DOI 10.17487/RFC7251
,
June 2014,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7251>

,
.

,

,

,

Shelby, Z. Hartke, K.
,
(CoAP)" RFC 7252 DOI 10.17487/RFC7252
editor.org/info/rfc7252>

, and

,

,

.

C. Bormann "The Constrained Application Protocol

,

, June 2014,

<https://www.rfc-

Gerdes, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9202

DTLS Profile for ACE

August 2022

[RFC7925]

[RFC8152]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8392]

[RFC8422]

[RFC8747]

[RFC8949]

[RFC9147]

[RFC9200]

[RFC9201]

T. Fossati "Transport Layer Security (TLS) / Datagram
Tschofenig, H., Ed.
Transport Layer Security (DTLS) Profiles for the Internet of Things" RFC 7925
DOI 10.17487/RFC7925

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7925>

, July 2016,

 and

,

,

.

,

Schaad, J. "CBOR Object Signing and Encryption (COSE)" RFC 8152 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8152>
10.17487/RFC8152
.

, July 2017,

,

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Jones, M. Wahlstroem, E. Erdtman, S.
(CWT)" RFC 8392 DOI 10.17487/RFC8392
,
info/rfc8392>

,

,

.

, and

H. Tschofenig "CBOR Web Token

,

, May 2018,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

,

, and

M. Pegourie-Gonnard "Elliptic Curve Cryptography

Nir, Y. Josefsson, S.
(ECC) Cipher Suites for Transport Layer Security (TLS) Versions 1.2 and Earlier"
,
RFC 8422 DOI 10.17487/RFC8422
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, August 2018,
rfc8422>

,
.

,

,

Jones, M. Seitz, L. Selander, G. Erdtman, S.
Possession Key Semantics for CBOR Web Tokens (CWTs)" RFC 8747 DOI
10.17487/RFC8747

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8747>

H. Tschofenig "Proof-of-

, March 2020,

, and

,

,

,

,

,

.

Bormann, C.
STD 94 RFC 8949 DOI 10.17487/RFC8949
editor.org/info/rfc8949>

P. Hoffman "Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR)"
 and
<https://www.rfc-
,

, December 2020,

,

,

.

,

,

Rescorla, E. Tschofenig, H.
Security (DTLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 9147 DOI 10.17487/RFC9147
2022,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9147>

N. Modadugu "The Datagram Transport Layer

, April

, and

,
.

,

,

,

,

Seitz, L. Selander, G. Wahlstroem, E. Erdtman, S.
"Authentication and Authorization for Constrained Environments (ACE) Using
the OAuth 2.0 Framework (ACE-OAuth)" RFC 9200 DOI 10.17487/RFC9200
August 2022,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9200>

H. Tschofenig

, and

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

Seitz, L. "Additional OAuth Parameters for Authentication and Authorization for
Constrained Environments (ACE)" RFC 9201 DOI 10.17487/RFC9201
,
2022,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9201>

, August

.

,

10.2.  Informative References

[RFC5869]

[RFC6655]

Krawczyk, H.
Function (HKDF)" RFC 5869 DOI 10.17487/RFC5869
editor.org/info/rfc5869>

P. Eronen "HMAC-based Extract-and-Expand Key Derivation
 and
,

, May 2010,

<https://www.rfc-

,
,

.

 and

McGrew, D.
(TLS)" RFC 6655 DOI 10.17487/RFC6655
,
info/rfc6655>

D. Bailey "AES-CCM Cipher Suites for Transport Layer Security
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/
,

, July 2012,

,

.

Gerdes, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9202

DTLS Profile for ACE

August 2022

[RFC7662]

[RFC7748]

[RFC8032]

[RFC8446]

[RFC8610]

Richer, J., Ed. "OAuth 2.0 Token Introspection" RFC 7662 DOI 10.17487/RFC7662
,
,
October 2015,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7662>

,
.

,

Langley, A. Hamburg, M.
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC7748

S. Turner "Elliptic Curves for Security" RFC 7748
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7748>
.

,

,

, January 2016,

, and

 and

Josefsson, S.
(EdDSA)" RFC 8032 DOI 10.17487/RFC8032
editor.org/info/rfc8032>

,

.

,

I. Liusvaara "Edwards-Curve Digital Signature Algorithm

,

, January 2017,

<https://www.rfc-

Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
,
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>

, August 2018,

,

.

, and

Birkholz, H. Vigano, C.
,
(CDDL): A Notational Convention to Express Concise Binary Object
Representation (CBOR) and JSON Data Structures" RFC 8610 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8610

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8610>

C. Bormann "Concise Data Definition Language

, June 2019,

,

.

,

Acknowledgments

Special thanks to
Kaduk
authors also would like to thank

Jim Schaad

 for his thorough reviews of this document. Thanks also to

Paul Kyzivat

 for his review. The

 for his contributions and reviews of this document and to

Ben

Marco Tiloca

 for his contributions.

Ludwig Seitz
with funding from Vinnova.

 worked on this document as part of the CelticNext projects CyberWI and CRITISEC

Authors' Addresses

Stefanie Gerdes
Universität Bremen TZI
Postfach 330440
D-28359 Bremen
Germany
Phone:
Email:

 +49-421-218-63906
 gerdes@tzi.org

Olaf Bergmann
Universität Bremen TZI
Postfach 330440
D-28359 Bremen
Germany
Phone:
Email:

 +49-421-218-63904
 bergmann@tzi.org

Gerdes, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9202

DTLS Profile for ACE

August 2022

Carsten Bormann
Universität Bremen TZI
Postfach 330440
D-28359 Bremen
Germany
Phone:
Email:

 +49-421-218-63921
 cabo@tzi.org

Göran Selander
Ericsson AB
Email:

 goran.selander@ericsson.com

Ludwig Seitz
Combitech
Djäknegatan 31
SE-
Sweden
Email:

211 35 Malmö

 ludwig.seitz@combitech.com

Gerdes, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

