Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9662
5425, 6012
Standards Track
October 2024
2070-1721
C. Lonvick

S. Turner
sn3rd

J. Salowey
Venafi

RFC 9662
Updates to the Cipher Suites in Secure Syslog

Abstract

RFCs 5425 and 6012 describe using TLS and DTLS to securely transport syslog messages. This
document updates the cipher suites required by RFC 5245 (TLS Transport Mapping for Syslog)
and RFC 6012 (DTLS Transport Mapping for Syslog). It also updates the protocol recommended by
RFC 6012 for secure datagram transport.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9662
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Lonvick, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9662

Cipher Suites in Secure Syslog

October 2024

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  Support for Updating

4.  Updates to RFC 5425

5.  Updates to RFC 6012

6.  Early Data

7.  IANA Considerations

8.  Security Considerations

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

2

3

3

4

4

4

5

5

5

5

6

7

7

 and "Datagram
"Transport Layer Security (TLS) Transport Mapping for Syslog"
 describe using TLS
Transport Layer Security (DTLS) Transport Mapping for Syslog"
and DTLS to securely transport syslog messages. Both of these specifications require the use of
RSA-based certificates and the use of TLS and DTLS versions that are not the most recent.

[RFC5425]
[RFC6012]

 requires that implementations

MUST

 support TLS 1.2

[RFC5246]

 and are

 to support the mandatory-to-implement cipher suite

Section 4.2 of [RFC5425]
REQUIRED
TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA.

Section 5.2 of [RFC6012]
are also "
TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA.

REQUIRED

 requires that implementations "

MUST

" support DTLS 1.0

[RFC4347]

 and

" to support the mandatory-to-implement cipher suite

The community is moving away from cipher suites that do not offer forward secrecy and
towards more robust suites.

[RFC4347]
The DTLS 1.0 transport
community is moving to DTLS 1.2

 has been deprecated by RFC 8996
[BCP195]
[RFC9147]
[RFC6347]
.
 and DTLS 1.3

, and the

Lonvick, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9662

Cipher Suites in Secure Syslog

October 2024

This document updates
TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256 over the use of
TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA.

[RFC5425]

[RFC6012]

 and

 to prefer the use of

This document also updates
datagram transport.

[RFC6012]

 by recommending a mandatory-to-implement secure

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Support for Updating

 generally reminds us that cryptographic algorithms and parameters will be broken

[RFC8447bis]
or weakened over time. Blindly implementing the cryptographic algorithms listed in any
specification is not advised. Implementers and users need to check that the cryptographic
algorithms specified continue to provide the expected level of security.

[RFC5280]

. Since both

As the Syslog Working Group determined, syslog clients and servers
[RFC6012] REQUIRED
defined in
TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA, it is very likely that RSA certificates have been implemented
in devices adhering to those specifications. RFC 9325
 notes that ECDHE cipher suites
exist for both RSA and ECDSA certificates, so moving to an ECDHE cipher suite will not require
replacing or moving away from any currently installed RSA-based certificates.

MUST
 the use of

 use certificates as

[RFC5425]

[BCP195]

 and

 documents that the cipher suite TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA, along

[DEPRECATE-KEX]
with some other cipher suites, may require mitigation techniques to achieve expected security,
 notes that
which may be difficult to effectively implement. Along those lines, RFC 9325
TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA does not provide forward secrecy, a feature that is highly
desirable in securing event messages. That document also goes on to recommend
TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256 as a cipher suite that does provide forward
secrecy.

[BCP195]

As such, the community is moving away from algorithms that do not provide forward secrecy.
For example, the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) has selected more robust suites
such as TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256, which is also listed as a currently
RECOMMENDED

 for their deployments of secure syslog.

 algorithm in

[RFC8447bis]

Additionally, RFC 8996
mandatory-to-implement transport protocol per
must be updated.

[BCP195]

 deprecates the use of DTLS 1.0

[RFC4347]

, which is the

[RFC6012]

. Therefore, that transport protocol

Finally, RFC 9325
[RFC9147]
.

[BCP195]

 provides guidance on the support of TLS 1.3

[RFC8446]

 and DTLS 1.3

Lonvick, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9662

Cipher Suites in Secure Syslog

October 2024

Therefore, to maintain interoperability across implementations, the mandatory-to-implement
cipher suites listed in
 should be updated so that implementations of
secure syslog will still interoperate and provide an acceptable and expected level of security.

[RFC5425]

[RFC6012]

 and

However, since there are many implementations of syslog using the cipher suites mandated by
[RFC6012]
TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA or TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256 may be
used, but it is

, a sudden change is not desirable. To accommodate a migration path,

 that TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256 be preferred.

REQUIRED

4.  Updates to RFC 5425

The mandatory-to-implement cipher suites are
TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256 and TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA.

REQUIRED

 to be

Implementations of
MAY

 offer TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA.

[RFC5425] SHOULD

 offer TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256 but

Implementations of
implement transport protocol.

[RFC5425] MUST

 continue to use TLS 1.2

[RFC5246]

 as the mandatory-to-

As per RFC 9325
if implemented,

[BCP195]
MUST

, implementations of

[RFC5425] SHOULD

 support TLS 1.3

[RFC8446]

 and,

 prefer to negotiate TLS 1.3 over earlier versions of TLS.

5.  Updates to RFC 6012

The mandatory-to-implement cipher suites are
TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256 and TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA.

REQUIRED

 to be

Implementations of
MAY

 offer TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA.

[RFC6012] SHOULD

 offer TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256 but

As specified in RFCs 8996 and 9325
1.0

. Implementations

[RFC4347]

MUST

 use DTLS 1.2

[RFC6347]
.

[BCP195]

, implementations of

[RFC6012] MUST NOT

 use DTLS

DTLS 1.2
cipher suite TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256.

 implementations

[RFC6347]

SHOULD

 support and prefer the mandatory-to-implement

As per RFC 9325
and, if implemented,

[BCP195]

MUST

, implementations of

[RFC9147]
 prefer to negotiate DTLS version 1.3 over earlier versions of DTLS.

[RFC6012] SHOULD

 support DTLS 1.3

6.  Early Data

 that allows a client to
Early data (aka 0-RTT data) is a mechanism defined in TLS 1.3
send data ("early data") as part of the first flight of messages to a server. Early data is permitted
by TLS 1.3 when the client and server share a PSK, either obtained externally or via a previous
handshake. The client uses the PSK to authenticate the server and to encrypt the early data.

[RFC8446]

Lonvick, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9662

Cipher Suites in Secure Syslog

October 2024

Section 2.3 of [RFC8446bis]

, the security properties for early data are weaker than

As noted in
those for subsequent TLS-protected data. In particular, early data is not forward secret, and there
are no protections against the replay of early data between connections.
[RFC8446bis]
Because syslog does not support replay protection (see
implementations establish a long-lived connection, this document specifies that implementations
MUST NOT

 requires that applications not use early data without a profile that defines its use.

Section 8.4 of [RFC5424]

Appendix E.5 of

 use early data.

) and most

7.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

8.  Security Considerations

RFCs 8996 and 9325
[RFC5425]
deprecate insecure cipher suites from
syslog implementations is not easily updated to immediately adhere to those changes.

 deprecate an insecure DTLS transport protocol from

[RFC6012]

[BCP195]

 and

. However, the installed base of

[RFC6012]

 and

This document updates the mandatory-to-implement cipher suites to allow for a migration from
TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA to TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256 without
deprecating the former. Implementations should prefer to use
TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256.

If a device currently only has TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA, an administrator of the
network should evaluate the conditions and determine if TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA
should be allowed so that syslog messages may continue to be delivered until the device is
updated to have TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256.

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[BCP195]

Best Current Practice 195,
At the time of writing, this BCP comprises the following:

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/bcp195>
.

Moriarty, K.
DOI 10.17487/RFC8996

 and

S. Farrell "Deprecating TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1" BCP 195 RFC 8996
,

,

,

,

, March 2021,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8996>

.

,

, and

Sheffer, Y. Saint-Andre, P.
,
Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)"
BCP 195 RFC 9325 DOI 10.17487/RFC9325
editor.org/info/rfc9325>

T. Fossati "Recommendations for Secure Use of

, November 2022,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

,

Lonvick, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9662

Cipher Suites in Secure Syslog

October 2024

[RFC2119]

[RFC4347]

[RFC5246]

[RFC5280]

[RFC5424]

[RFC5425]

[RFC6012]

[RFC6347]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8446]

[RFC9147]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Rescorla, E.
DOI 10.17487/RFC4347

 and

N. Modadugu "Datagram Transport Layer Security" RFC 4347

,

,

,

, April 2006,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4347>

.

Dierks, T.
1.2" RFC 5246 DOI 10.17487/RFC5246
,
info/rfc5246>

E. Rescorla "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version
 and
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/
,
.

, August 2008,

,

,

,

Cooper, D. Santesson, S. Farrell, S. Boeyen, S. Housley, R.
"Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certificate and Certificate Revocation
List (CRL) Profile" RFC 5280 DOI 10.17487/RFC5280
editor.org/info/rfc5280>

, May 2008,

<https://www.rfc-

W. Polk

, and

,

,

,

,

,

.

Gerhards, R. "The Syslog Protocol" RFC 5424 DOI 10.17487/RFC5424
,
2009,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5424>

,

.

, March

Miao, F., Ed. Ma, Y., Ed.
,
Transport Mapping for Syslog" RFC 5425 DOI 10.17487/RFC5425
,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5425>
.

J. Salowey, Ed. "Transport Layer Security (TLS)

, and

, March 2009,

,

,

Salowey, J. Petch, T. Gerhards, R.
, and
Security (DTLS) Transport Mapping for Syslog" RFC 6012 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6012

H. Feng "Datagram Transport Layer
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6012>

, October 2010,

,
,

,

.

 and

Rescorla, E.
RFC 6347 DOI 10.17487/RFC6347
rfc6347>

,
.

,

N. Modadugu "Datagram Transport Layer Security Version 1.2"
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, January 2012,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
,
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>

, August 2018,

,

.

,

Rescorla, E. Tschofenig, H.
Security (DTLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 9147 DOI 10.17487/RFC9147
2022,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9147>

N. Modadugu "The Datagram Transport Layer

, April

, and

,
.

,

,

9.2.  Informative References

[DEPRECATE-KEX]

 and

N. Aviram "Deprecating Obsolete Key Exchange Methods in

,

Bartle, C.
,

TLS 1.2" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-tls-deprecate-obsolete-
,
kex-05
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-tls-
, 3 September 2024,
deprecate-obsolete-kex-05>
.

Lonvick, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9662

Cipher Suites in Secure Syslog

October 2024

[RFC8446bis]

[RFC8447bis]

,

Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" Work in
Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-tls-rfc8446bis-11
<https://
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-tls-rfc8446bis-11>

, 14 September 2024,

.

,

,

 and

Salowey, J. A.
Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-tls-rfc8447bis-09
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-tls-rfc8447bis-09>

,

.

S. Turner "IANA Registry Updates for TLS and DTLS" Work in

,

,

, 30 April 2024,

<https://

Acknowledgments

The authors would like to thank
WG15 for their review, comments, and suggestions. The authors would also like to thank
Petch Juergen Schoenwaelder Hannes Tschofenig Viktor Dukhovni
their comments and constructive feedback.

Arijit Kumar Bose Steffen Fries

, and the members of IEC TC57

, and the IESG members for

Tom

,

,

,

,

Authors' Addresses

Chris Lonvick
Email:

lonvick.ietf@gmail.com

Sean Turner
sn3rd
Email:

sean@sn3rd.com

Joe Salowey
Venafi
Email:

joe@salowey.net

Lonvick, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

