Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9437
Standards Track
August 2023
2070-1721
A. Rodriguez-Natal
Cisco

V. Ermagan
Google

A. Cabellos
UPC/BarcelonaTech

S. Barkai
Nexar

Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

M. Boucadair
Orange

RFC 9437
Publish/Subscribe Functionality for the Locator/ID
Separation Protocol (LISP)

Abstract

This document specifies an extension to the Locator/ID Separation Protocol (LISP) control plane
to enable Publish/Subscribe (PubSub) operation.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9437
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in effect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Rodriguez-Natal, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9437

PubSub Functionality for LISP

August 2023

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Scope of Applicability

2.  Terminology and Requirements Notation

3.  Deployment Requirements

4.  Map-Request PubSub Additions

5.  Mapping Request Subscribe Procedures

6.  Mapping Notification Publish Procedures

7.  Security Considerations

7.1.  Security Association between ITR and Map-Server

7.2.  DDoS Attack Mitigation

8.  IANA Considerations

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Sample PubSub Deployment Experiences

A.1.  PubSub as a Monitoring Tool

A.2.  Mitigating Negative Map-Cache Entries

A.3.  Improved Mobility Latency

A.4.  Enhanced Reachability with Dynamic Redistribution of Prefixes

A.5.  Better Serviceability

Acknowledgments

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

3

4

4

4

4

6

9

10

10

11

12

13

13

13

14

14

14

15

15

16

16

16

17

Rodriguez-Natal, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9437

PubSub Functionality for LISP

August 2023

1.  Introduction

[RFC9300] [RFC9301]

The Locator/ID Separation Protocol (LISP)
different namespaces: Endpoint Identifiers (EIDs) and Routing Locators (RLOCs). LISP uses a map
and encapsulate (a.k.a., map-and-encap) approach that relies on (1) a Mapping System (basically
a distributed database) that stores and disseminates EID-RLOC mappings and on (2) LISP Tunnel
Routers (xTRs) that encapsulate and decapsulate data packets based on the content of those
mappings.

 splits IP addresses into two

Ingress Tunnel Routers (ITRs), Re-encapsulating Tunnel Routers (RTRs), and Proxy Ingress
Tunnel Routers (PITRs) pull EID-to-RLOC mapping information from the Mapping System by
means of an explicit request message.
 indicates how Egress Tunnel
Routers (ETRs) can tell ITRs/RTRs/PITRs about mapping changes. This document presents a
Publish/Subscribe (PubSub) extension in which the Mapping System can notify ITRs/RTRs/PITRs
about mapping changes. When this mechanism is used, mapping changes can be notified faster
and can be managed in the Mapping System versus the LISP sites.

Section 6.1 of [RFC9301]

In general, when an ITR/RTR/PITR wants to be notified for mapping changes for a given EID-
Prefix, the following main steps occur:

1.

The ITR/RTR/PITR builds a Map-Request for that EID-Prefix with the Notification-Requested
bit (N-bit) set and that also includes its xTR-ID and Site-ID.

2.

The Map-Request is forwarded to one of the Map-Servers that the EID-Prefix is registered to.

3.

The Map-Server creates subscription state for the ITR/RTR/PITR on the EID-Prefix.

4.

The Map-Server sends a Map-Notify to the ITR/RTR/PITR to confirm that the subscription has
been created and then waits for an acknowledgement of the notification.

5.

The ITR/RTR/PITR sends back a Map-Notify-Ack to acknowledge the successful receipt of the
Map-Notify.

6.

When there is a change in the mapping of the EID-Prefix, the Map-Server sends a Map-Notify
message to each ITR/RTR/PITR in the subscription list.

7.

Each ITR/RTR/PITR sends a Map-Notify-Ack to acknowledge the received Map-Notify.

This operation is repeated for all EID-Prefixes for which ITRs/RTRs/PITRs want to be notified. An
ITR/RTR/PITR can set the N-bit for several EID-Prefixes within a single Map-Request. Please note
that the steps above illustrate only the simplest scenario and that details for this and other
scenarios are described later in the document.

The reader may refer to
specification.

[FLOW-EXAMPLES]

 for sample flows to illustrate the use of the PubSub

Rodriguez-Natal, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9437

PubSub Functionality for LISP

August 2023

1.1.  Scope of Applicability

The PubSub procedure specified in this document is intended for use in contexts with controlled
access to the Map-Server. How a deployment controls access to a Map-Server is deployment
specific and therefore out of the scope of this document. However, the Map-Resolvers and Map-
Servers need to be configured with the required information to ensure at least the following:

1.

Map-Resolvers
ID, Site-ID, and ITR-RLOCs included in a Map-Request.

MUST

 verify that an xTR is allowed to (1) set the N-bit to 1 and (2) use the xTR-

2.

Map-Servers
Requests as previously described.

MUST

 only accept subscription requests from Map-Resolvers that verify Map-

2.  Terminology and Requirements Notation

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

The document uses the terms defined in

Section 3 of [RFC9300]
.

3.  Deployment Requirements

In addition to the general assumptions and expectations that
deployments, this document imposes the following deployment requirements:

[RFC9301]

 makes for LISP

1.

A unique 128-bit xTR-ID (plus a 64-bit Site-ID) identifier is assigned to each xTR.

2.

Map-Servers are configured to proxy Map-Replying (i.e., they are solicited to generate and
send Map-Reply messages) for the mappings they are serving.

3.

A security association (e.g., a PubSubKey) is required between the ITRs and the Map-Servers
(see Section 7.1).

If a requirement is not met, a subscription cannot be established, and the network will continue
operating without this enhancement. The configuration of xTR-IDs and Site-IDs is out of the scope
[LISP-YANG]
of this document. The reader may refer to
can be provisioned to LISP nodes.

 for an example of how these identifiers

4.  Map-Request PubSub Additions

Figure 1 shows the format of the updated Map-Request to support the PubSub functionality. In
particular, this document associates a meaning with one of the reserved bits (see Section 8).

Rodriguez-Natal, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9437

PubSub Functionality for LISP

August 2023

     0                   1                   2                   3
     0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |Type=1 |A|M|P|S|p|s|R|I|  Rsvd   |L|D|   IRC   | Record Count  |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                         Nonce . . .                           |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                         . . . Nonce                           |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |         Source-EID-AFI        |   Source EID Address  ...     |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |         ITR-RLOC-AFI 1        |    ITR-RLOC Address 1  ...    |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                              ...                              |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |         ITR-RLOC-AFI n        |    ITR-RLOC Address n  ...    |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  / |N|   Reserved  | EID mask-len  |        EID-Prefix-AFI         |
Rec +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  \ |                       EID-Prefix  ...                         |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                   Map-Reply Record  ...                       |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                                                               |
    +                                                               +
    |                                                               |
    +                            xTR-ID                             +
    |                                                               |
    +                                                               +
    |                                                               |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                                                               |
    +                           Site-ID                             +
    |                                                               |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 1: Map-Request with I-bit, N-bit, xTR-ID, and Site-ID

The following is added to the Map-Request message defined in

Section 5.2 of [RFC9301]
:

xTR-ID bit (I-bit):

This bit is set to 1 to indicate that 128-bit xTR-ID and 64-bit Site-ID fields are

present in the Map-Request message. For PubSub operation, an xTR
an xTR-ID and Site-ID, and it
Map-Request messages it generates. If the I-bit is set but the Site-ID and/or xTR-ID are not
included, a receiver can detect the error because, after processing that last EID-Record, there
are no bytes left from processing the message. In this case, the receiver
malformed Map-Request and

 set the I-bit to 1 and include its xTR-ID and Site-ID in the

 drop the message.

 be configured with

SHOULD

 log a

MUST

MUST

MUST

Notification-Requested bit (N-bit):

The N-bit of an EID-Record is set to 1 to specify that the xTR

wants to be notified of updates for that EID-Prefix.

Rodriguez-Natal, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9437

PubSub Functionality for LISP

August 2023

xTR-ID field:

If the I-bit is set, this field is added to the Map-Request message as shown in Figure

1, starting right after the final Record in the message (or the Map-Reply Record, if present).
The xTR-ID is specified in

Section 5.6 of [RFC9301]

.

Site-ID field:

If the I-bit is set, this field is added to the Map-Request message as shown in Figure

1, following the xTR-ID field. The Site-ID is defined in

Section 5.6 of [RFC9301]

.

5.  Mapping Request Subscribe Procedures

The xTR subscribes for changes to a given EID-Prefix by sending a Map-Request to the Mapping
System with the N-bit set on the EID-Record. The xTR builds a Map-Request according to
Section
5.3 of [RFC9301]

 and also does the following:

1.

The xTR

MUST

 set the I-bit to 1 and append its xTR-ID and Site-ID to the Map-Request.

2.

The xTR

MUST

 set the N-bit to 1 for the EID-Record to which the xTR wants to subscribe.

3.

If the xTR has a nonce associated with the EID-Prefix, it
one in the Map-Request. Otherwise, it generates a nonce as described in
[RFC9301]
xTR does not have persistent storage and does not have a nonce associated with the EID-
Prefix, it
create a new security association with the Map-Server.

 reset the nonce by using the procedure described in Section 7.1 to successfully

 that the xTR use persistent storage to keep nonce state. If the

 use this nonce increased by

RECOMMENDED

Section 5.2 of

. It is

MUST

MUST

The Map-Request is forwarded to the appropriate Map-Server through the Mapping System. This
document does not assume that a Map-Server is pre-assigned to handle the subscription state for
a given xTR. The Map-Server that receives the Map-Request will be the Map-Server responsible
for notifying that specific xTR about future mapping changes for the subscribed mapping
records.

. In addition, unless the xTR is using the procedure described in Section 7.1 to create a

Upon receipt of the Map-Request, the Map-Server processes it as described in
[RFC9301]
new security association, the Map-Server
MUST
greater than the stored nonce (if any) associated with the xTR-ID (and EID-Prefix, when
applicable). Otherwise, the Map-Server
 log the event to record that a replay attack could have occurred. Furthermore, upon
SHOULD
processing, for the EID-Record that has the N-bit set to 1, the Map-Server proceeds to add the
xTR-ID contained in the Map-Request to the list of xTRs that have requested to be subscribed to
that EID-Prefix.

 silently drop the Map-Request message and

 verify that the nonce in the Map-Request is

Section 8.3 of

MUST

If an xTR-ID is successfully added to the list of subscribers for an EID-Prefix, the Map-Server
 extract the nonce and ITR-RLOCs present in the Map-Request and store the association
MUST
between the EID-Prefix, xTR-ID, ITR-RLOCs, and nonce. Any state that is already present
regarding ITR-RLOCs and/or nonce for the same xTR-ID
deployment has a single Map-Server, the Map-Server can be configured to keep a single nonce
per xTR-ID for all EID-Prefixes (when used, this option
 be enabled at the Map-Server and
all xTRs).

 be overwritten. When the LISP

MUST

MUST

Rodriguez-Natal, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9437

PubSub Functionality for LISP

August 2023

If the xTR-ID is added to the list, the Map-Server
xTR to acknowledge the successful subscription. The Map-Server builds the Map-Notify according
to Sections 5.5 and 5.7 of

 send a Map-Notify message back to the

 with the following considerations:

[RFC9301]

MUST

1.

The Map-Server

MUST

 use the nonce from the Map-Request as the nonce for the Map-Notify.

2.

MUST

The Map-Server
authentication data of the Map-Notify. The xTR
the received authentication data.

 use its security association with the xTR (Section 7.1) to sign the

MUST

 use the security association to verify

3.

The Map-Server
Request (which one is implementation specific).

MUST

 send the Map-Notify to one of the ITR-RLOCs received in the Map-

Section 5.7 of [RFC9301]

. Some state changes may trigger

As a reminder, the initial transmission and retransmission of Map-Notify messages by a Map-
Server follow the procedure specified in
an overload that would impact, e.g., the outbound capacity of a Map-Server. A similar problem
may be experienced when a large number of state entries are simultaneously updated. To
 be configured with policies to control the
prevent such phenomena, Map-Servers
SHOULD
maximum number of subscriptions and also the pace of Map-Notify messages. For example, the
Map-Server may be instructed to limit the resources that are dedicated to unsolicited Map-Notify
messages to a small fraction (e.g., less than 10%) of its overall processing and forwarding
capacity. The exact details to characterize such policies are deployment and implementation
specific. Likewise, this document does not specify which notifications take precedence when
these policies are enforced.

 and

MUST

Section 5.7 of

Section 5.7 of [RFC9301]

 use the Map-Notify to populate its Map-Cache with the returned EID-Prefix

When the xTR receives a Map-Notify with a nonce that matches one in the list of outstanding
Map-Request messages sent with an N-bit set, it knows that the Map-Notify is to acknowledge a
successful subscription. The xTR processes this Map-Notify, as described in
[RFC9301]
and RLOC-set. As a reminder, following
Notify-Ack back to the Map-Server. If the Map-Server does not receive the Map-Notify-Ack after
exhausting the Map-Notify retransmissions described in
can remove the subscription state. If the Map-Server removes the subscription state, and absent
 notify the xTR by sending a single Map-Notify with the same nonce but
explicit policy, it
with Loc-Count = 0 (and Loc-AFI = 0) and ACT bits set to 5 "Drop/Auth-Failure". It is
 for
the xTR to update its Map-Cache entry for the EID-Prefix (if any) based on this Map-Notify. This
message is specifically useful for cases where Map-Notifies are successfully received by an xTR,
but the corresponding Map-Notify-Acks are lost when forwarded to the Map-Server. xTR
implementations can use this signal to try to reinstall their subscription state instead of
maintaining stale mappings.

, the xTR has to send a Map-

Section 5.7 of [RFC9301]

OPTIONAL

SHOULD

, the Map-Server

The subscription of an xTR-ID may fail for a number of reasons. For example, it fails because of
local configuration policies (such as accept and drop lists of subscribers), because the Map-Server
has exhausted the resources to dedicate to the subscription of that EID-Prefix (e.g., the number of
subscribers excess the capacity of the Map-Server), or because the xTR was not successful tried
but was not successful in establishing a new security association (Section 7.1).

Rodriguez-Natal, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9437

PubSub Functionality for LISP

August 2023

If the subscription request fails, the Map-Server sends a Map-Reply to the originator of the Map-
Request, as described in

, with the following considerations:

Section 8.3 of [RFC9301]

•

If the subscription request fails due to policy (e.g., for explicitly configured subscriptions, as
described later in this section), the Map-Server
Negative Map-Reply (Loc-Count = 0 and Loc-AFI = 0) with ACT bits set to 4 "Drop/Policy-
Denied".

 respond to the Map-Request with a

MUST

•

If the subscription request fails due to authentication (e.g., when a new security association
 respond to the Map-
is being established, as described in Section 7.1), the Map-Server
Request with a Negative Map-Reply (Loc-Count = 0 and Loc-AFI = 0) with ACT bits set to 5
"Drop/Auth-Failure".

MUST

•

If the subscription request fails due to any other reason, the Map-Server
8.3 of [RFC9301]

 with no changes.

MUST

 follow

Section

Section 8.1 of [RFC9301]
The xTR processes any Map-Reply or Negative Map-Reply as specified in
,
with the following considerations: if the xTR receives a Negative Map-Reply with ACT bits set to 4
"Drop/Policy-Denied" or 5 "Drop/Auth-Failure" as a response to a subscription request, it is
 for the xTR to update its Map-Cache entry for the EID-Prefix (if any). If the
OPTIONAL
subscription request fails (for whichever reason), it is up to the implementation of the xTR to try
to subscribe again.

SHOULD

 follow the same logic described in

If the Map-Server receives a subscription request for an EID-Prefix not present in the mapping
database, it
 and create a
temporary subscription state for the xTR-ID to the least specific prefix that both matches the
original query and does not match any EID-Prefix known to exist in the LISP-capable
infrastructure. Alternatively, the Map-Server can determine that such a subscription request fails
and send a Negative Map-Reply following
temporary subscription state or the Negative Map-Reply
15 minutes being

. In both cases, the TTL of the
 be configurable, with a value of

Section 8.3 of [RFC9301]
SHOULD

Section 8.4 of [RFC9301]

.
RECOMMENDED

The subscription state can also be created explicitly by configuration at the Map-Server (possible
when a pre-shared security association exists, see Section 7) using a variety of means that are
outside the scope of this document. If there is no nonce that can be used for the explicit
subscription state at the time the explicit subscription is configured (e.g., from a different
subscription already established with the same xTR when a single nonce is kept per xTR-ID), then
both the xTR and Map-Server
 to have
a configuration option to enable (or disable) the xTR to accept publication information for EID-
Prefixes that the xTR did not explicitly subscribe to. By default, the xTR is allowed to modify
explicitly configured subscription state following the procedures described in this section;
however, this
instructed to not allow xTRs to modify explicitly configured subscriptions, and an xTR tries to do
so, this triggers a Negative Map-Reply with ACT bits set to 4 "Drop/Policy-Denied" as described
earlier in this section.

 be disabled at the Map-Server via configuration. If the Map-Server is

 be configured with the initial nonce.

RECOMMENDED

MUST

MAY

Rodriguez-Natal, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9437

PubSub Functionality for LISP

August 2023

The following specifies the procedure to remove a subscription:

•

If a valid Map-Request with the N-bit set to 1 only has one ITR-RLOC with AFI = 0 (i.e.,
Unknown Address), the Map-Server
(unless this is disabled via configuration, see previous paragraph).

 remove the subscription state for that xTR-ID

MUST

•

If the subscription state is removed, the Map-Server
RLOC of the Map-Request.

MUST

 send a Map-Notify to the source

•

If the subscription removal fails due to configuration, this triggers a Negative Map-Reply
with ACT bits set to 4 "Drop/Policy-Denied" as described earlier in this section; the Map-
Server sends the Negative Map-Reply to the source RLOC of the Map-Request in this case.

•

Removing subscription state at the Map-Server can lead to replay attacks. To soften this, the
 keep the last nonce seen per xTR-ID (and EID-Prefix, when applicable).
Map-Server

SHOULD

•

If the Map-Server does not keep the last nonces seen, then the Map-Server
xTRs to subscribe using the procedure described in Section 7.1 to create a new security
association with the Map-Server.

MUST

 require the

If the Map-Server receives a Map-Request asking to remove a subscription for an EID-Prefix
without subscription state for that xTR-ID and the EID-Prefix is covered by a less-specific EID-
Prefix for which subscription state exists for the xTR-ID, the Map-Server
updates about this more-specific EID-Prefix to that xTR until the xTR subscribes to the more-
specific EID-Prefix. The same considerations regarding authentication, integrity protection, and
nonce checks, which are described in this section and Section 7 for Map-Requests used to update
subscription state, apply for Map-Requests used to remove subscription state.

 stop publishing

SHOULD

When an EID-Prefix is removed from the Map-Server (either when explicitly withdrawn or when
its TTL expires), the Map-Server notifies its subscribers (if any) via a Map-Notify with TTL equal
to 0.

6.  Mapping Notification Publish Procedures

The publish procedure is implemented via Map-Notify messages that the Map-Server sends to
xTRs. The xTRs acknowledge the receipt of Map-Notifies by sending Map-Notify-Ack messages
back to the Map-Server. The complete mechanism works as follows:

MUST

 notify the subscribers of that mapping via sending Map-Notify messages with

When a mapping stored in a Map-Server is updated (e.g., via a Map-Register from an ETR), the
Map-Server
the most up to date mapping information. If subscription state in the Map-Server exists for a less-
specific EID-Prefix and a more-specific EID-Prefix is updated, then the Map-Notify is sent with the
more-specific EID-Prefix mapping to the subscribers of the less-specific EID-Prefix mapping. The
Map-Notify message sent to each of the subscribers as a result of an update event follows the
encoding and logic defined in

 for Map-Notify, except for the following:

Section 5.7 of [RFC9301]

1.

The Map-Notify
subscriber (which one is implementation specific).

MUST

 be sent to one of the ITR-RLOCs associated with the xTR-ID of the

2.

The Map-Server increments the nonce by one every time it sends a Map-Notify as publication
to an xTR-ID for a particular EID-Prefix.

Rodriguez-Natal, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9437

PubSub Functionality for LISP

August 2023

3.

The Map-Server
data of the Map-Notify.

MUST

 use its security association with the xTR to compute the authentication

When the xTR receives a Map-Notify with an EID that is not local to the xTR, the xTR knows that
 keep track of the last nonce
the Map-Notify is to update an entry on its Map-Cache. The xTR
seen in a Map-Notify received as a publication from the Map-Server for the EID-Prefix. When the
LISP deployment has a single Map-Server, the xTR can be configured to keep track of a single
nonce for all EID-Prefixes (when used, this option
 be enabled at the Map-Server and all
xTRs). If a Map-Notify that is received as a publication has a nonce value that is not greater than
the saved nonce, the xTR drops the Map-Notify message and logs the fact a replay attack could
have occurred. The same considerations discussed in
 regarding Map-
Register nonces apply here for Map-Notify nonces.

Section 5.6 of [RFC9301]

MUST

MUST

The xTR processes the received Map-Notify as specified in
following considerations:

Section 5.7 of [RFC9301]

, with the

•

The xTR
authentication data on the Map-Notify.

MUST

 use its security association with the Map-Server (Section 7.1) to validate the

•

The xTR
Map-Cache.

MUST

 use the mapping information carried in the Map-Notify to update its internal

•

If after following
the Map-Server has not received the Map-Notify-Ack, it can try sending the Map-Notify to a
different ITR-RLOC for that xTR-ID.

 regarding retransmission of Map-Notify messages,

Section 5.7 of [RFC9301]

•

If the Map-Server tries all the ITR-RLOCs without receiving a response, it may stop trying to
send the Map-Notify.

7.  Security Considerations

Generic security considerations related to LISP control messages are discussed in
[RFC9301]
.

Section 9 of

In the particular case of PubSub, cache poisoning via malicious Map-Notify messages is avoided
by the use of nonce and the security association between the ITRs and the Map-Servers.

RECOMMENDED

 to follow guidance from the last paragraph of
It is
ensure integrity protection of Map-Request messages (e.g., to prevent xTR-ID hijacking).

Section 9 of [RFC9301]

 to

7.1.  Security Association between ITR and Map-Server

Since Map-Notifies from the Map-Server to the ITR need to be authenticated, there is a need for a
soft-state or hard-state security association (e.g., a PubSubKey) between the ITRs and the Map-
Servers. For some controlled deployments, it might be possible to have a shared PubSubKey (or
set of keys) between the ITRs and the Map-Servers. However, if pre-shared keys are not used in
[RFC9303]
the deployment, LISP Security (LISP-SEC)
 can be used as follows to create a security
association between the ITR and the Map-Server.

Rodriguez-Natal, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9437

PubSub Functionality for LISP

August 2023

First, when the ITR is sending a Map-Request with the N-bit set as described in Section 5, the ITR
Section 6.4 of [RFC9303]
also performs the steps described in
PubSubKey by deriving a key from the One-Time Key (OTK) and Map-Request's nonce as follows:
PubSubKey = KDF(OTK + nonce), where KDF is the Key Derivation Function indicated by the OTK
Wrapping ID. If the OTK Wrapping ID equals NULL-KEY-WRAP-128, then the PubSubKey is the
OTK. Note that, as opposed to the pre-shared PubSubKey, this generated PubSubKey is different
per EID-Prefix to which an ITR subscribes (since the ITR will use a different OTK per Map-
Request).

. The ITR can then generate a

MUST

When the Map-Server receives the Map-Request, it follows the procedure specified in Section 5
with the following considerations: the Map-Server
 verify that the OTK has not been used
before. If the Map-Server verifies the OTK and cannot determine that the OTK has not been used
before, the subscription request fails due to authentication, which triggers a Negative Map-Reply
with ACT bits set to 5 "Drop/Auth-Failure", as described in Section 5. The xTR might try again with
a different OTK upon receipt of this Negative Map-Reply. Note that a Map-Server implementation
may decide not to keep track of all past OTKs and instead use some form of hash. In that case,
hash collisions are handled as if the OTK has been reused. Such an implementation needs to
balance the hash length with the rate of collisions expected for the particular deployment; this is
implementation specific. If the Map-Server has to reply with a Map-Reply for any other reason
(e.g., if PubSub is not supported or a subscription is not accepted), then it follows the normal
Section 5.7 of [RFC9303]
LISP-SEC procedure described in
subscription state is created when the Map-Server responds with any Map-Reply message.

. No PubSubKey, security association, or

Otherwise, if the Map-Server has to reply with a Map-Notify (e.g., due to the subscription being
accepted) to a received Map-Request, the following extra steps take place:

•

The Map-Server extracts the OTK and the OTK Wrapping ID from the LISP-SEC Encapsulated
Control Message (ECM) Authentication Data.

•

The Map-Server generates a PubSubKey by deriving a key from the OTK, as described before
for the ITR. This is the same PubSubKey derived at the ITR that is used to establish a security
association between the ITR and the Map-Server.

•

The PubSubKey can now be used to sign and authenticate any Map-Notify between the Map-
Server and the ITR for the subscribed EID-Prefix. This includes the Map-Notify sent as a
confirmation to the subscription. When the ITR wants to update the security association for
that Map-Server and EID-Prefix, it once again follows the procedure described in this section.

Note that if the Map-Server replies with a Map-Notify, none of the regular LISP-SEC steps
regarding Map-Reply described in

Section 5.7 of [RFC9303]

 occur.

7.2.  DDoS Attack Mitigation

If PubSub is deployed under the scope of applicability defined in Section 1.1, only known nodes
can participate on the PubSub deployment. DDoS attacks based on replayed messages by
unknown nodes are avoided by the use of nonce and the security association between the ITRs
and the Map-Servers. Misbehaving known nodes may send massive subscription requests, which
may lead to exhausting the resources of a Map-Server. Furthermore, frequently changing the

Rodriguez-Natal, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9437

PubSub Functionality for LISP

August 2023

state of a subscription may also be considered as an attack vector. To mitigate such issues,
Section 5.7 of [RFC9301]
Section 5.3 of [RFC9301]
 discusses rate-limiting Map-Requests, and
discusses rate-limiting Map-Notifies. Note that when the Map-Notify rate-limit threshold is met
for a particular xTR-ID, the Map-Server will discard additional subscription requests from that
 when receiving a Map-Request
xTR-ID and will fall back to the behavior described in
from that xTR-ID (i.e., the Map-Server will send a Map-Reply).

[RFC9301]

8.  IANA Considerations

IANA has assigned the following new bit from the "LISP Control Plane Header Bits: Map-Request"
registry within the "Locator/ID Separation Protocol (LISP) Parameters" group of registries
[IANA-
LISP]
:

Spec Name

IANA Name

Bit Position Description

Reference

I

Map-Request-I

11

xTR-ID Bit

RFC 9437

Table 1: Addition to the Map-Request Header Bits Registry

IANA has also created a new registry entitled "LISP Control Plane Header Bits: Map-Request-
Record" within the "Locator/ID Separation Protocol (LISP) Parameters" group of registries
LISP]
.

[IANA-

The initial content of this registry is shown in Table 2.

Spec Name

IANA Name

Bit Position Description

Reference

N

Map-Request-N 1

Notification-Requested Bit

RFC 9437

Table 2: Initial Content of LISP Control Plane Header Bits: Map‑Request-Record Registry

The remaining bits (i.e., bit positions 2-8) are Unassigned.

The policy for allocating new bits in this registry is "Specification Required" (
[RFC8126]

).

Section 4.6 of

Allocation requests are evaluated on the advice of one or more designated experts. Designated
experts should consider whether the proposed registration duplicates existing entries and
whether the registration description is sufficiently detailed and fits the purpose of this registry.
These criteria are to be considered in addition to those provided in
the proposed registration "must be documented in a permanent and readily available public
specification"). The designated experts will either approve or deny the registration request, and
communicate their decision to IANA. Denials should include an explanation and, if applicable,
suggestions as to how to make the request successful.

Section 4.6 of [RFC8126]

 (e.g.,

Rodriguez-Natal, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9437

PubSub Functionality for LISP

August 2023

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

[RFC9300]

[RFC9301]

[RFC9303]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

, June

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Farinacci, D. Fuller, V. Meyer, D. Lewis, D.
Separation Protocol (LISP)" RFC 9300 DOI 10.17487/RFC9300
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9300>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

A. Cabellos, Ed. "The Locator/ID
,

, October 2022,

,

Farinacci, D. Maino, F. Fuller, V.
Protocol (LISP) Control Plane" RFC 9301 DOI 10.17487/RFC9301
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9301>

, and

,

,

,

.

A. Cabellos, Ed. "Locator/ID Separation

, October 2022,

,

Maino, F. Ermagan, V. Cabellos, A.
D. Saucez "Locator/ID Separation
, and
Protocol Security (LISP-SEC)" RFC 9303 DOI 10.17487/RFC9303
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9303>

,

,

,

.

, October 2022,

9.2.  Informative References

[EID-MOBILITY]

,

Portoles, M. Ashtaputre, V. Maino, F. Moreno, V.

,
L3 EID Mobility Using a Unified Control Plane" Work in Progress Internet-Draft,
draft-ietf-lisp-eid-mobility-12
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/
draft-ietf-lisp-eid-mobility-12>

D. Farinacci "LISP L2/

, 4 July 2023,

, and

,

,

,

,

.

[FLOW-EXAMPLES]

Boucadair, M. "LISP PubSub Flow Examples" Work in Progress Internet-
<https://

,
Draft, draft-boucadair-lisp-pubsub-flow-examples-03
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-boucadair-lisp-pubsub-flow-examples-03>

, 10 February 2023,

,

,

.

[GB-ATN]

[IANA-LISP]

,

,

,

Haindl, B. Lindner, M. Moreno, V. Portoles, M. Maino, F.
Venkatachalapathy "Ground-Based LISP for the Aeronautical
,
Telecommunications Network" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-haindl-
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-haindl-
lisp-gb-atn-09
lisp-gb-atn-09>

, 27 March 2023,

, and

B.

,

,

,

.

,

IANA "Locator/ID Separation Protocol (LISP) Parameters" <https://
www.iana.org/assignments/lisp-parameters/>

,

.

Rodriguez-Natal, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9437

PubSub Functionality for LISP

August 2023

[LISP-YANG]

[RFC6835]

[UBERLAY]

Ermagan, V. Rodriguez-Natal, A. Coras, F. Moberg, C. Rahman, R. Cabellos, A.
,
and
F. Maino "LISP YANG Model" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-
lisp-yang-19
yang-19>

,
,
, 2 March 2023,

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-lisp-

,
,

.

,

,

,

,

Farinacci, D.
(LIG)" RFC 6835 DOI 10.17487/RFC6835
,
editor.org/info/rfc6835>

 and
,

.

D. Meyer "The Locator/ID Separation Protocol Internet Groper

,

, January 2013,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

Moreno, V. Farinacci, D. Rodriguez-Natal, A. Portoles-Comeras, M. Maino, F.
,
and
Progress Internet-Draft, draft-moreno-lisp-uberlay-06
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-moreno-lisp-uberlay-06>

S. Hooda "Uberlay Interconnection of Multiple LISP overlays" Work in
, 28 September 2022,

,
,

,

,

,

.

Appendix A.  Sample PubSub Deployment Experiences

Some LISP production networks have been running different forms of PubSub for some time.
The following subsections provide an inventory of some experience lessons from these
deployments.

A.1.  PubSub as a Monitoring Tool

Some LISP deployments are using PubSub as a way to monitor EID-Prefixes (particularly, EID-to-
RLOC mappings). To that aim, some LISP implementations have extended the LISP Internet
Groper ('lig')
 tool to use PubSub. Such an extension is meant to support an interactive
mode with 'lig' and to request subscription for the EID of interest. If there are RLOC changes, the
Map-Server sends a notification, and then the 'lig' client displays that change to the user.

[RFC6835]

A.2.  Mitigating Negative Map-Cache Entries

 suggests two TTL values for Negative Map-Replies: either a 15-minute

Section 8.1 of [RFC9301]
TTL (if the EID-Prefix does not exist) or a 1-minute TTL (if the prefix exists but has not been
registered). While these values are based on the original operational experience of the LISP
protocol designers, negative cache entries have two unintended effects that were observed in
production.

First, if the xTR keeps receiving traffic for a negative EID destination (i.e., an EID-Prefix with no
RLOCs associated with it), it will try to resolve the destination again once the cached state
expires, even if the state has not changed in the Map-Server. It was observed in production that
this is happening often in networks that have a significant amount of traffic addressed for
outside of the LISP network. This might result in excessive resolution signaling to keep retrieving
the same state due to the cache expiring. PubSub is used to relax TTL values and cache negative
mapping entries for longer periods of time, avoiding unnecessary refreshes of these forwarding
entries and drastically reducing signaling in these scenarios. In general, a TTL-based schema is a
"polling mechanism" that leads to more signaling where PubSub provides an "event-triggered
mechanism" at the cost of state.

Rodriguez-Natal, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9437

PubSub Functionality for LISP

August 2023

Second, if the state does indeed change in the Map-Server, updates based on TTL timeouts might
prevent the cached state at the xTR from being updated until the TTL expires. This behavior was
observed during configuration (or reconfiguration) periods on the network, where EID-Prefixes
that are no longer negative do not receive the traffic yet, due to stale Map-Cache entries present
in the network. With the activation of PubSub, stale caches can be updated as soon as the state
changes.

A.3.  Improved Mobility Latency

[RFC9301]

[EID-MOBILITY]

. As described in Section
, LISP can rely on data-driven Solicit-Map-Requests (SMRs) to ensure

An improved convergence time was observed on the presence of mobility events on LISP
networks running PubSub as compared with running LISP
4.1.2.1 of
eventual network convergence. Generally, PubSub offers faster convergence due to (1) no need to
wait for a data-triggered event and (2) less signaling as compared with the SMR-based flow. Note
that when a Map-Server running PubSub has to update a large number of subscribers at once
(i.e., when a popular mapping is updated), SMR-based convergence may be faster for a small
subset of the subscribers (those receiving PubSub updates last). Deployment experience reveals
that data-driven SMRs and PubSub mechanisms complement each other and provide a fast and
resilient network infrastructure in the presence of mobility events.

Furthermore, experience showed that not all LISP entities on the network need to implement
PubSub for the network to get the benefits. In scenarios with significant traffic coming from
outside of the LISP network, the experience showed that enabling PubSub in the border routers
significantly improves mobility latency overall. Even if edge xTRs do not implement PubSub, and
traffic is exchanged between EID-Prefixes at the edge, xTRs still converge based on data-driven
events and SMR-triggered updates.

A.4.  Enhanced Reachability with Dynamic Redistribution of Prefixes

There is a need to interconnect LISP networks with other networks that might or might not run
LISP. Some of those scenarios are similar to the ones described in
When connecting LISP to other networks, the experience revealed that in many deployments the
point of interaction with the other domains is not the Mapping System but rather the border
router of the LISP site. For those cases, the border router needs to be aware of the LISP prefixes
to redistribute them to the other networks. Over the years, different solutions have been used.

[UBERLAY]
.

[GB-ATN]

 and

First, Map-Servers were collocated with the border routers, but this was hard to scale since
border routers scale at a different pace than Map-Servers. Second, decoupled Map-Servers and
border routers were used with static configuration of LISP entries on the border, which was
problematic when modifications were made. Third, a routing protocol (e.g., BGP) can be used to
redistribute LISP prefixes from the Map-Servers to a border router, but this comes with some
implications; in particular, the Map-Servers need to implement an additional protocol, which
consumes resources and needs to be properly configured. Therefore, once PubSub was available,
deployments started to adapt it to enable border routers to dynamically learn the prefixes they
need to redistribute without a need for extra protocols or extra configuration on the network.

Rodriguez-Natal, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9437

PubSub Functionality for LISP

August 2023

In other words, PubSub can be used to discover EID-Prefixes so they can be imported into other
routing domains that do not use LISP. Similarly, PubSub can also be used to discover when EID-
Prefixes need to be withdrawn from other routing domains. That is, in a typical deployment, a
border router will withdraw an EID-Prefix that it has been announcing to external routing
domains if it receives a notification that the RLOC-set for that EID-Prefix is now empty.

A.5.  Better Serviceability

EID-to-RLOC mappings can have a very long TTL, sometimes on the order of several hours. Upon
the expiry of that TTL, the xTR checks if these entries are being used and removes any entry that
is not being used. The problem with a very long Map-Cache TTL is that (in the absence of
PubSub) if a mapping changes but is not being used, the cache remains but is stale. This is due to
no data traffic being sent to the old location to trigger an SMR-based Map-Cache update as
described in Section 4.1.2.1 of
a router to track the state of the Map-Cache, the router will display multiple entries waiting to
expire but with stale RLOC information. This might be confusing for operators sometimes,
particularly when they are debugging problems. With PubSub, the Map-Cache is updated with
the correct RLOC information, even when it is not being used or waiting to expire, which helps
with debugging.

. If the network operator runs a show command on

[EID-MOBILITY]

Acknowledgments

We would like to thank
Iannone
, and

Marc Portoles Balaji Venkatachalapathy Bernhard Haindl Luigi

,

,

,

Padma Pillay-Esnault

 for their great suggestions and help regarding this document.

Many thanks to

Alvaro Retana

 for the careful AD review.

Thanks to
Roni Even
the tsv directorate review, and

Chris M. Lonvick
 for the Gen-ART review,

 for the security directorate review,

Al Morton

 for the OPS-DIR review,

Mike McBride

 for the rtg-dir review,

Magnus Westerlund

 for

Sheng Jiang

 for the int-dir review.

Thanks to
Kucherawy Éric Vyncke Robert Wilton Zaheduzzaman Sarker
review.

John Scudder Erik Kline Lars Eggert Warren Kumari Martin Duke Murray
,
,

Roman Danyliw

,
, and

,
,

,

,

,

 for the IESG

This work was partly funded by the ANR LISP-Lab project #ANR-13-INFR-009
Projet-ANR-13-INFR-0009>
.

<https://anr.fr/

Contributors

Dino Farinacci
lispers.net
San Jose CA
,
United States of America
Email:

 farinacci@gmail.com

Rodriguez-Natal, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9437

PubSub Functionality for LISP

August 2023

Johnson Leong
Email:

 johnsonleong@gmail.com

Fabio Maino
Cisco
San Jose CA
United States of America
Email:

 fmaino@cisco.com

,

Christian Jacquenet
Orange
Rennes
France
Email:

 christian.jacquenet@orange.com

Stefano Secci
Cnam
France
Email:

 stefano.secci@cnam.fr

Authors' Addresses

Alberto Rodriguez-Natal
Cisco
Barcelona
Spain
Email:

 natal@cisco.com

Vina Ermagan
Google
United States of America
Email:

 ermagan@gmail.com

Albert Cabellos
UPC/BarcelonaTech
Barcelona
Spain
Email:

 acabello@ac.upc.edu

Sharon Barkai
Nexar
Email:

 sharon.barkai@getnexar.com

Rodriguez-Natal, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9437

PubSub Functionality for LISP

August 2023

Mohamed Boucadair
Orange
Rennes
France
Email:

 mohamed.boucadair@orange.com

Rodriguez-Natal, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

