Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9545
Standards Track
February 2024
2070-1721
W. Cheng,
China Mobile

H. Li
China Mobile

 Ed.

 Ed.

C. Li,
Huawei Technologies

R. Gandhi
Cisco Systems, Inc.

Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

R. Zigler
Broadcom

RFC 9545
Path Segment Identifier in MPLS-Based Segment
Routing Networks

Abstract

A Segment Routing (SR) path is identified by an SR segment list. A subset of segments from the
segment list cannot be leveraged to distinguish one SR path from another as they may be
partially congruent. SR path identification is a prerequisite for various use cases such as
performance measurement and end-to-end 1+1 path protection.

In an SR over MPLS (SR-MPLS) data plane, an egress node cannot determine on which SR path a
packet traversed the network from the label stack because the segment identifiers are removed
from the label stack as the packet transits the network.

This document defines a Path Segment Identifier (PSID) to identify an SR path on the egress node
of the path.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9545
.

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9545

PSID in SR-MPLS

February 2024

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in effect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

1.2.  Abbreviations and Terms

2.  Path Segment

2.1.  Equal-Cost Multipath (ECMP) Considerations

3.  Use Cases

3.1.  PSID for Performance Measurement

3.2.  PSID for Bidirectional SR Paths

3.3.  PSID for End-to-End Path Protection

3.4.  Nesting of PSIDs

4.  Security Considerations

5.  IANA Considerations

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

6.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

3

3

3

4

5

5

6

6

6

7

8

9

9

9

9

10

10

11

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9545

PSID in SR-MPLS

February 2024

1.  Introduction

[RFC8402]

Segment Routing (SR)
source node through a controlled set of instructions, called "segments", by prepending the packet
with an SR header. In SR with the MPLS data plane
through a label stack.

 leverages the source-routing paradigm to steer packets from a

, the SR header is instantiated

[RFC8660]

In an SR-MPLS network, when a packet is transmitted along an SR path, the labels in the MPLS
label stack will be swapped or popped. The result of this is that no label or only the last label may
be left in the MPLS label stack when the packet reaches the egress node. Thus, the egress node
cannot use the SR label stack to determine along which SR path the packet came.

However, identifying a path on the egress node is a prerequisite for various use cases in SR-MPLS
networks, such as performance measurement (Section 3.1), bidirectional paths (Section 3.2), and
end-to-end 1+1 path protection (a Live-Live case) (Section 3.3).

Therefore, this document defines a new segment type, referred to herein as a "Path Segment". A
Path Segment is defined to uniquely identify an SR path on the egress node of the path. It
 be
used by the egress node for path identification. Note that per-path state will be maintained in the
egress node due to the requirements in the aforementioned use cases, though in normal cases,
the per-path state will be maintained in the ingress node only.

MAY

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

1.2.  Abbreviations and Terms

MPLS:

Multiprotocol Label Switching

PSID:

Path Segment Identifier

SID:

Segment Identifier

SR:

Segment Routing

SR-MPLS:

SR over MPLS

SR path:

A path described by a segment list.

Sub-Path:

A part of a path, which contains a subset of the nodes and links of the path.

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9545

PSID in SR-MPLS

February 2024

2.  Path Segment

A Path Segment is a local segment
node. A Path Segment Identifier (PSID) is a single label that is assigned from the Segment Routing
Local Block (SRLB)

 that uniquely identifies an SR path on the egress

 of the egress node of an SR path.

[RFC8402]

[RFC8402]

A PSID is used to identify a segment list. However, one PSID can be used to identify multiple
segment lists in some use cases if needed. For example, one single PSID
some or all segment lists in a candidate path or an SR policy if an operator would like to
aggregate these segment lists in operation.

MAY

 be used to identify

When a PSID is used, the PSID can be inserted at the ingress node and
the last label of the SR path; in other words, it must be inserted after the routing segment
(adjacency, node, or prefix segment) that is pointing to the egress node of the SR path. Therefore,
a PSID will not be the top label in the label stack when received on an intermediate node of the
associated path, but it can be the top label in the label stack on the penultimate node.

 immediately follow

MUST

The value of the TTL field in the MPLS label stack entry containing a PSID can be set to any value
except 0. If a PSID is the bottom label, the S bit
 be 0.
label, the S bit

 be set, and if the PSID is NOT the bottom

MUST

MUST

MUST

The egress node
 use the PSID for further processing.
For example, when performance measurement is enabled on the SR path, it can trigger packet
counting or timestamping.

 pop the PSID. The egress node

MAY

The addition of the PSID will require the egress to read and process the PSID label in addition to
the regular processing. This additional processing may have an impact on forwarding
performance. Behavior relating to the use of explicit null directly preceding the PSID is
undefined in this document.

A Generic Associated Channel Label (GAL)
MAY
Maintenance (OAM) in MPLS networks. As per
Channel Header (ACH) appears immediately after the bottom of the label stack.

 be used for Operations, Administration, and
[RFC5586]

, when a GAL is used, the Associated

The SR path computation needs to know the Maximum SID Depth (MSD) that can be imposed at
the ingress node of a given SR path
computed path does not exceed the number of SIDs the node is capable of imposing. As per
[RFC8491]
number of MPLS labels includes the PSID.

, the MSD signals the total number of MPLS labels that can be imposed, where the total

. This ensures that the SID stack depth of a

[RFC8664]

An example label stack with a PSID is shown in Figure 1:

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9545

PSID in SR-MPLS

February 2024

            +--------------------+
            |       ...          |
            +--------------------+
            |      Label 1       |
            +--------------------+
            |      Label 2       |
            +--------------------+
            |       ...          |
            +--------------------+
            |      Label n       |
            +--------------------+
            |        PSID        |
            +--------------------+
            ~       Payload      ~
            +--------------------+

Figure 1: Label Stack with a PSID

Where:

•

The Labels 1 to n are the segment label stack used to direct how to steer the packets along
the SR path.

•

The PSID identifies the SR path in the context of the egress node of the SR path.

The signaling of the PSID between the egress node, the ingress node, and possibly a centralized
controller is out of the scope of this document.

2.1.  Equal-Cost Multipath (ECMP) Considerations

If an Entropy Label (EL) is also used on the egress node, as per
Label Indicator (ELI) would be placed before the tunnel label; hence, they do not interfere with
the PSID, which is placed below.

, the EL and Entropy

[RFC6790]

It is worthy to note that in the case of ECMP, with or without the use of an EL, the SR packets may
be forwarded over multiple paths. In this case, the SID list cannot directly reflect the actual
forwarding path and the PSID can only identify the SID list rather than the actual forwarding
path.

Also, similar to a Synonymous Flow Label (SFL)
existing flow may cause that flow to take a different path through the network under the
conditions of ECMP. In turn, this may invalidate certain uses of the PSID, such as performance
Section 5 of [RFC8957]
measurement applications. Therefore, the considerations of SFLs as per
also apply to PSIDs in implementation.

, the introduction of a PSID to an

[RFC8957]

3.  Use Cases

This section describes use cases that can leverage the PSID. The content is for informative
purposes, and the detailed solutions might be defined in other documents in the future.

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9545

PSID in SR-MPLS

February 2024

3.1.  PSID for Performance Measurement

[RFC7799]

As defined in
Hybrid measurements. Since a PSID is encoded in the SR-MPLS label stack, as shown in Figure 1,
existing implementations on the egress node can leverage a PSID for measuring packet counts.

, performance measurement can be classified into Passive, Active, and

For Passive performance measurement, path identification at the measuring points is the
prerequisite. A PSID can be used by the measuring points (e.g., the ingress and egress nodes of
the SR path or a centralized controller) to correlate the packet counts and timestamps from the
ingress and egress nodes for a specific SR path; then, packet loss and delay can be calculated for
the end-to-end path, respectively.

Furthermore, a PSID can also be used for:

•

Active performance measurement for an SR path in SR-MPLS networks for collecting packet
counters and timestamps from the egress node using probe messages.

•

In situ OAM
fields in the data packets on the egress node.

[RFC9197]

 for SR-MPLS to identify the SR path associated with the in situ data

•

In-band performance measurement for SR-MPLS to identify the SR path associated with the
collected performance metrics.

3.2.  PSID for Bidirectional SR Paths

In some scenarios (e.g., mobile backhaul transport networks), there are requirements to support
bidirectional paths
reverse directions of the path have the same fate; for example, failure in one direction will result
in switching traffic at both directions. MPLS supports this by introducing the concepts of a co-
[RFC5654]
.
routed bidirectional Label Switched Path (LSP) and an associated bidirectional LSP

, and the path is normally treated as a single entity. Forward and

[RFC6965]

In the current SR architecture, an SR path is a unidirectional path
bidirectional SR paths, a straightforward way is to bind two unidirectional SR paths to a single
bidirectional SR path. PSIDs can be used to identify and correlate the traffic for the two
unidirectional SR paths at both ends of the bidirectional path.

[RFC8402]

. In order to support

The mechanism of constructing bidirectional paths using a PSID is out of the scope of this
document and has been described in several documents, such as
EXTENSIONS]
.

[BIDIR-PATH]

 and

[SR-

3.3.  PSID for End-to-End Path Protection

For end-to-end 1+1 path protection (i.e., a Live-Live case), the egress node of the path needs to
know the set of paths that constitute the primary and the secondaries in order to select the
primary path packets for onward transmission and to discard the packets from the secondaries
[RFC4426]
.

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9545

PSID in SR-MPLS

February 2024

To do this in SR, each SR path needs a path identifier that is unique at the egress node. For SR-
MPLS, this can be the Path Segment label allocated by the egress node.

The detailed solution of using a PSID in end-to-end 1+1 path protection is out of the scope of this
document.

3.4.  Nesting of PSIDs

[RFC8402]

 can be used for SID list compression. With a BSID, an end-to-end
A Binding SID (BSID)
SR path in a trusted domain can be split into several sub-paths, where each sub-path is identified
by a BSID. Then, an end-to-end SR path can be identified by a list of BSIDs; therefore, it can
provide better scalability.

A BSID and a PSID can be combined to achieve both sub-path and end-to-end path monitoring. A
reference model for such a combination (Figure 2) shows an end-to-end path (A->D) in a trusted
domain that spans three subdomains (the Access, Aggregation, and Core domains) and consists of
three sub-paths, one in each subdomain (sub-path (A->B), sub-path (B->C), and sub-path (C->D)).

The SID list of a sub-path can be expressed as <SID1, SID2, ..., SIDn, s-PSID>, where the s-PSID is
the PSID of the sub-path. Each sub-path is associated with a BSID and an s-PSID.

The SID list of the end-to-end path can be expressed as <BSID1, BSID2, ..., BSIDn, e-PSID>, where
the e-PSID is the PSID of the end-to-end path.

Figure 2 shows the details of the label stacks when a PSID and a BSID are used to support both
sub-path and end-to-end path monitoring in a multi-domain scenario.

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9545

PSID in SR-MPLS

February 2024

         /--------\       /--------\       /--------\
       /            \   /            \   /            \
     A{    Access    }B{  Aggregation }C{     Core     }D
       \            /   \            /   \            /
         \--------/       \--------/       \--------/
       sub-path(A->B)    sub-path(B->C)   sub-path(C->D)
    |<--------------->|<-------------->|<-------------->|
                          E2E Path(A->D)
    |<------------------------------------------------->|

 +-------------+
 ~A->B sub-path~
 +-------------+  +-------------+
 |s-PSID(A->B) |  ~B->C sub-path~
 +-------------+  +-------------+  +-------------+
 | BSID(B->C)  |  |s-PSID(B->C) |  ~C->D sub-path~
 +-------------+  +-------------+  +-------------+
 | BSID(C->D)  |  | BSID(C->D)  |  |s-PSID(C->D) |
 +-------------+  +-------------+  +-------------+  +------------+
 |e-PSID(A->D) |  |e-PSID(A->D) |  |e-PSID(A->D) |  |e-PSID(A->D)|
 +-------------+  +-------------+  +-------------+  +------------+

Figure 2: Nesting of PSIDs

4.  Security Considerations

A PSID in SR-MPLS is a local label similar to other labels and segments, such as a VPN label,
defined in MPLS and SR-MPLS. The data plane processing of a PSID is a local implementation of
an ingress node or an egress node, which follows the same logic of an existing MPLS data plane.
As per the definition of a PSID, only the egress node and the ingress node of the associated path
will learn the information of a PSID. The intermediate nodes of this path will not learn it.

A PSID may be used on an ingress node that is not the ingress of the associated path if the
associated label stack with the PSID is part of a deeper label stack that represents a longer path.
For example, the case described in Section 3.4 and the related BSID are not used while the
original label stack of a sub-path is inserted as a part of the whole label stack. In this case, the
PSID must be distributed in a trusted domain under the considerations defined in
[RFC8402]
.

Section 8.1 of

A PSID is used within an SR-MPLS trusted domain
domain; therefore, no new security threats are introduced compared to current SR-MPLS. As per
[RFC8402]
 filter any external traffic destined to a label
associated with a segment within the trusted domain; this applies to a PSID as well. Other
security considerations of SR-MPLS described in

, SR domain boundary routers

 and must not leak outside the

 apply to this document.

Section 8.1 of [RFC8402]

[RFC8402]

MUST

The distribution of a PSID from an egress node to an ingress node is performed within an SR-
trusted domain, and it is out of the scope of this document. The details of the mechanism and
related security considerations will be described in other documents.

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9545

PSID in SR-MPLS

February 2024

5.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8402]

[RFC8660]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Filsfils, C., Ed. Previdi, S., Ed. Ginsberg, L. Decraene, B. Litkowski, S.
Shakir "Segment Routing Architecture" RFC 8402 DOI 10.17487/RFC8402
2018,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8402>

,

,

,

,

,

.

, and

R.
, July

,

Bashandy, A., Ed. Filsfils, C., Ed. Previdi, S. Decraene, B. Litkowski, S.
R.
Shakir "Segment Routing with the MPLS Data Plane" RFC 8660 DOI 10.17487/
,
RFC8660

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8660>

, December 2019,

, and

,

,

,

,

,

.

6.2.  Informative References

[BIDIR-PATH]

[RFC4426]

[RFC5586]

[RFC5654]

,

,

,

Li, C. Chen, M. Cheng, W. Gandhi, R.
Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for Associated Bidirectional
Segment Routing (SR) Paths" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-pce-sr-
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-
bidir-path-13
pce-sr-bidir-path-13>

Q. Xiong "Path Computation Element

, 13 February 2024,

, and

,

,

,

.

,

Lang, J., Ed. Rajagopalan, B., Ed.
D. Papadimitriou, Ed. "Generalized Multi-
,
Protocol Label Switching (GMPLS) Recovery Functional Specification" RFC 4426
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC4426

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4426>

, March 2006,

, and

,

.

,

Bocci, M., Ed. Vigoureux, M., Ed.
Channel" RFC 5586 DOI 10.17487/RFC5586
editor.org/info/rfc5586>

, and

.

,

,

S. Bryant, Ed. "MPLS Generic Associated

,

, June 2009,

<https://www.rfc-

S. Ueno
,
Niven-Jenkins, B., Ed. Brungard, D., Ed. Betts, M., Ed. Sprecher, N.
,
"Requirements of an MPLS Transport Profile" RFC 5654 DOI 10.17487/RFC5654
,
September 2009,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5654>

, and

,

.

,

,

,

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9545

PSID in SR-MPLS

February 2024

[RFC6790]

[RFC6965]

[RFC7799]

[RFC8491]

[RFC8664]

[RFC8957]

[RFC9197]

,

Kompella, K. Drake, J. Amante, S. Henderickx, W.
Entropy Labels in MPLS Forwarding" RFC 6790 DOI 10.17487/RFC6790
November 2012,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6790>

, and

L. Yong "The Use of

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

Fang, L., Ed. Bitar, N. Zhang, R. Daikoku, M.
,
Profile (MPLS-TP) Applicability: Use Cases and Design" RFC 6965 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6965

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6965>

P. Pan "MPLS Transport

, August 2013,

, and

,
.

,

,

,

Morton, A. "Active and Passive Metrics and Methods (with Hybrid Types In-
Between)" RFC 7799 DOI 10.17487/RFC7799
,
editor.org/info/rfc7799>

<https://www.rfc-

, May 2016,

,
,

.

,

Tantsura, J. Chunduri, U. Aldrin, S.
, and
Depth (MSD) Using IS-IS" RFC 8491 DOI 10.17487/RFC8491
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8491>

,
,

.

L. Ginsberg "Signaling Maximum SID

,

, November 2018,

,

,

Sivabalan, S. Filsfils, C. Tantsura, J. Henderickx, W.
Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for Segment
Routing" RFC 8664 DOI 10.17487/RFC8664
editor.org/info/rfc8664>

J. Hardwick "Path

, December 2019,

<https://www.rfc-

, and

,

,

,

,

.

,

Bryant, S. Chen, M. Swallow, G. Sivabalan, S.
Flow Label Framework" RFC 8957 DOI 10.17487/RFC8957
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8957>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

G. Mirsky "Synonymous

,

, January 2021,

Brockners, F., Ed. Bhandari, S., Ed.
,
Operations, Administration, and Maintenance (IOAM)" RFC 9197 DOI 10.17487/
RFC9197

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9197>

T. Mizrahi, Ed. "Data Fields for In Situ

, May 2022,

, and

,
,

,

.

[SR-EXTENSIONS]

,

,

,

Li, C. Li, Z. Yin, Y. Cheng, W.

K. Talaulikar "SR Policy Extensions for
, and
Path Segment and Bidirectional Path" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-
,
ietf-idr-sr-policy-path-segment-09
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-idr-sr-policy-path-segment-09>

, 19 February 2024,

,
<https://

,

.

Acknowledgements

,
The authors would like to thank
Vainshtein Andrew G. Malis Ketan Talaulikar Shraddha Hegde Xinyue Zhang Loa Andersson
,
,
and
document.

 for their review, suggestions, comments, and contributions to this

Adrian Farrel Stewart Bryant Shuangping Zhan Alexander
,

Bruno Decraene

,

,

,

,

,

The authors would like to acknowledge the contribution from
of PSIDs" (Section 3.4).

Alexander Vainshtein

 on "Nesting

Contributors

The following people have substantially contributed to this document.

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9545

PSID in SR-MPLS

February 2024

Mach(Guoyi) Chen
Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd.
Email:

 mach.chen@huawei.com

Lei Wang
China Mobile
Email:

 wangleiyj@chinamobile.com

Aihua Liu
ZTE Corp.
Email:

 liu.aihua@zte.com.cn

Greg Mirsky
ZTE Corp.
Email:

 gregimirsky@gmail.com

Gyan S. Mishra
Verizon Inc.
Email:

 gyan.s.mishra@verizon.com

Authors' Addresses

Weiqiang Cheng (
China Mobile
Email:

editor
)

 chengweiqiang@chinamobile.com

Han Li
China Mobile
Email:

 lihan@chinamobile.com

editor
)

Cheng Li (
Huawei Technologies
China
Email:

 c.l@huawei.com

Rakesh Gandhi
Cisco Systems, Inc.
Canada
Email:

 rgandhi@cisco.com

Royi Zigler
Broadcom
Email:

 royi.zigler@broadcom.com

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

