Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9537
Standards Track
March 2024
2070-1721
J. Gould
VeriSign, Inc.

D. Smith
VeriSign, Inc.

J. Kolker
GoDaddy Inc.

R. Carney
GoDaddy Inc.

RFC 9537
Redacted Fields in the Registration Data Access
Protocol (RDAP) Response

Abstract

This document describes a Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP) extension for specifying
methods of redaction of RDAP responses and explicitly identifying redacted RDAP response
fields, using JSONPath as the default expression language.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9537
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Gould, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9537

Redacted Fields in RDAP

March 2024

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Conventions Used in This Document

3.  Redaction Methods

3.1.  Redaction by Removal Method

3.2.  Redaction by Empty Value Method

3.3.  Redaction by Partial Value Method

3.4.  Redaction by Replacement Value Method

4.  Redacted RDAP Response

4.1.  RDAP Conformance

4.2.  "redacted" Member

5.  JSONPath Considerations

5.1.  JSONPath Client Considerations

5.2.  JSONPath Server Considerations

6.  IANA Considerations

6.1.  RDAP Extensions Registry

6.2.  RDAP JSON Values Registry

7.  Security Considerations

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

8.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

2

3

3

4

4

5

6

8

8

8

27

27

27

28

28

29

29

29

29

30

30

31

1.  Introduction

This document describes an RDAP extension for specifying methods of redaction of RDAP
responses and explicitly identifying redacted RDAP response fields, using JSONPath as the default
expression language. A redacted RDAP field is one that has data removed or replaced in the

Gould, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9537

Redacted Fields in RDAP

March 2024

, or RDAP fields defined in RDAP extensions. Because an RDAP response may exclude a

RDAP response due to server policy, such as the lack of client privilege to receive the field. This
extension can be used to identify redacted RDAP fields in any RDAP object class, as defined in
[RFC9083]
field due to either the lack of data or the lack of RDAP client privileges, this extension is used to
explicitly specify which RDAP fields are not included in the RDAP response due to redaction. It
thereby provides a capability for disambiguation between redaction and other possible reasons
for data or field absence.

[RFC9082]

, RDAP supports both lookup and search queries, where a lookup query responds

In
with a single object and a search query responds with a list of objects. This document applies to
redaction of a single object of a lookup response and in each of the objects of a search response.

JSONPath, as defined in
fields that have been redacted. The redacted JSON fields will be removed, have empty values,
have partial values, or be replaced in the RDAP response. JSON is defined by

, is used as the default expression language to reference RDAP

[RFC8259]
.

[RFC9535]

2.  Conventions Used in This Document

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

The JSON examples include extra line breaks and empty space. For instance, the JSONPath
expressions are broken out into multiple lines when required for illustration.

The JSONPath expressions in the examples are for illustration purposes with single-role entities,
and the exact expressions to be used by the server are out of scope.

3.  Redaction Methods

Redaction in RDAP can be handled in multiple ways. The resulting redacted RDAP response
comply with the format defined in the RDAP RFCs, such as
placeholder text for the values of the RDAP fields, such as "XXXX",
redaction, since the placeholder text value may not match the format requirements of each of the
RDAP fields, which could provide an inconsistent and unreliable redaction signal. This section
covers the redaction methods that can be used with the redaction signaling defined in Section
4.2.

 and updates. The use of

 be used for

[RFC9083]

MUST NOT

MUST

[RFC9083]

RDAP responses, as defined in
JSON arrays are heavily used for entity objects with
vCard [RFC6350]
representation of
vCard "ADR" property
sequence of address components. According to
value is missing, the associated component separator

[RFC6350]

, include a mix of JSON objects and JSON arrays, where

jCard [RFC7095]

. jCard is a JSON

 that inherits its dependency on arrays. An example is the

, or the jCard "adr" property

[RFC7095]

, which defines a

[RFC6350]

, when an "ADR" property component
 still be specified. jCard extends the

MUST

Gould, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9537

Redacted Fields in RDAP

March 2024

use of arrays with each individual vCard property being represented by an array of three fixed
elements, followed by one or more additional elements. The mix of JSON objects and JSON arrays
impacts the methods used for redaction in RDAP.

The redaction of RDAP fields fall into the four categories defined in the following subsections.

3.1.  Redaction by Removal Method

The Redaction by Removal Method is when the RDAP field is removed from the RDAP response,
which is the default method. The Redaction by Removal Method can be done for all RDAP
response fields except for response fields using the position in an array to signal the redacted
field (e.g., the JSON arrays used with jCard). RDAP extensions, such as the one described in
JSContact in Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP) JSON Responses" [RDAP-JSCONTACT]
not have a dependency on the use of positional JSON arrays and are therefore suited for the
Redaction by Removal Method.

"Using
, do

When an RDAP object is redacted by removal, all of the RDAP object's child fields are also
removed. Only the redacted RDAP object needs to be referenced in the list of redacted fields, as
defined in Section 4.2.

An example of redacting an RDAP object is removing the administrative contact from the RDAP
response and including the following "redacted" member:

"redacted": [
  {
    "name": {
      "description": "Administrative Contact"
    },
    "prePath": "$.entities[?(@.roles[0]=='administrative')]",
    "method": "removal"
  }
]

Figure 1: Redacted Administrative Contact

The Redaction by Removal Method
 be used to remove an element of an array where
the position of the element in the array determines semantic meaning. For example, removal of
an individual data field in jCard will result in a non-conformant jCard array definition.

MUST NOT

3.2.  Redaction by Empty Value Method

The Redaction by Empty Value Method is when a redacted field is not removed but its value is set
to an empty value, such as "" for a jCard text ("text") property or null for a non-text property. The
empty jCard values ("" or null) are referenced in the "redacted" member in place of the jCard
property name in an array, such as referencing the "fn" jCard property value at position 3 instead
of referencing the "fn" jCard property name at position 0. The Redaction by Empty Value Method
 be used only when redacting JSON response fields that use the position in an array to
MUST
signal the redacted field (e.g., jCard arrays). Optional jCard properties

Redaction by

 use the

MUST

Gould, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9537

Redacted Fields in RDAP

March 2024

Removal Method (Section 3.1)
defined in
vCard [RFC6350]
redact the property value. Removing the "fn" property would violate
removing the property value would violate the fixed array positions defined in jCard.

Section 6.2.1 of vCard [RFC6350] MUST

 to redact the entire property. The required jCard "fn" property,

 use the Redaction by Empty Value Method to

, and

,

[
  "fn",
  {},
  "text",
  ""
]

Figure 2: Redacted "fn" jCard Property Using the Redaction by Empty Value Method

An example of the "redacted" member for the redacted "fn" jCard property value, which is array
position 3:

"redacted": [
  {
    "name": {
      "description": "Registrant Name"
    },
    "postPath": "$.entities[?(@.roles[0]=='registrant')].
      vcardArray[1][?(@[0]=='fn')][3]",
    "pathLang": "jsonpath",
    "method": "emptyValue",
    "reason": {
      "description": "Server policy"
    }
  }
]

Figure 3: Redacted Registrant Name Using an Array Position

3.3.  Redaction by Partial Value Method

The Redaction by Partial Value Method is when a redacted field is not removed but its value has a
portion of the data removed, such as for the "label" or "fn" jCard properties. The partial values
are referenced in the "redacted" member in place of the property name in an array, such as
referencing the "fn" jCard property value at position 3 instead of referencing the "fn" jCard
property name at position 0. The Redaction by Partial Value Method
redacting JSON response fields that use a formatted value, where a portion of the value is
removed.

 be used only when

SHOULD

An example of the "label" jCard property in
Ave\nSuite 901\n":

Section 3.3.1.3 of [RFC7095]

 that redacts "123 Maple

Gould, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9537

Redacted Fields in RDAP

March 2024

["adr",
  {
    "type":"home",
    "label":"Vancouver\nBC\n1239\n"
  },
  "text",
  [
    "", "", "", "", "", "", ""
  ]
]

Figure 4: Redacted "label" jCard Property

An example of the "redacted" member for the redacted "label" jCard property value, based on
Section 3.3.1.3 of [RFC7095]
:

"redacted": [
  {
    "name": {
      "description": "Home Address Label"
    },
    "postPath": "$.vcardArray[1][?(@[0]=='adr')][1].label",
    "pathLang": "jsonpath",
    "method": "partialValue",
    "reason": {
      "description": "Server policy"
    }
  }
]

Figure 5: Redacted Label Using the Redaction by Partial Value Method

3.4.  Redaction by Replacement Value Method

The Redaction by Replacement Value Method is when a redacted field is not removed but its
value is replaced with a different value, such as protecting the "email" jCard property value with
an anonymized email "text" value or the use of an alternative "uri" value to a web form.
Replacing a property value is a form of redaction, since it protects the true property value for
privacy reasons.

Gould, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9537

Redacted Fields in RDAP

March 2024

[
  "email",
  {},
  "text",
  "anonymized123@example.com"
]

Figure 6: Redacted "email" jCard Property Using the Redaction by Replacement Value Method with
an Anonymized Email

"redacted": [
  {
    "name": {
      "description": "Registrant Email"
    },
    "postPath": "$.entities[?(@.roles[0]=='registrant')].
               vcardArray[1][?(@[0]=='email')][3]",
    "pathLang": "jsonpath",
    "method": "replacementValue",
  }
]

Figure 7: Redacted Email Using a Replacement Value with an Anonymized "text" Value

[
  "contact-uri",
  {},
  "uri",
  "https://email.example.com/123"
]

Figure 8: Redacted "email" jCard Property Using the Redaction by Replacement Value Method with a
"contact-uri" jCard Property to a Web Form

Gould, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9537

Redacted Fields in RDAP

March 2024

"redacted": [
  {
    "name": {
      "description": "Registrant Email"
    },
    "prePath": "$.entities[?(@.roles[0]=='registrant')].
               vcardArray[1][?(@[0]=='email')]",
    "replacementPath": "$.entities[?(@.roles[0]=='registrant')].
               vcardArray[1][?(@[0]=='contact-uri')]",
    "pathLang": "jsonpath",
    "method": "replacementValue",
  }
]

Figure 9: Redacted Email Using a Replacement Value with a "contact-uri" jCard Property to a Web
Form

4.  Redacted RDAP Response

4.1.  RDAP Conformance

RDAP responses that contain values described in this document
[RFC9083]
this specification by including an "rdapConformance"
"redacted" extension identifier is described in Section 6.1.

 indicate conformance with

MUST
 value of "redacted". The

"rdapConformance": [
  "rdap_level_0",
  "redacted"
]

Figure 10: "rdapConformance" with Redacted Extension

4.2.  "redacted" Member

MUST

The "redacted" member
redacted fields. The "redacted" member is included as a member of the object instance in a
lookup response, such as the object classes defined in
instances in a search response.

 be added to the RDAP response when there is one or more

[RFC9083]

, and as a member of the object

The server, including a redacted signal, provides an unauthorized client additional information
related to the existence of data and
 exclude the redacted members for RDAP fields that are
MAY
considered a privacy issue in providing a data existence signal. The server
a redaction policy describing how this extension is implemented for their constituency. The
contents of such a policy are outside the scope of this specification.

 choose to publish

MAY

The "redacted" member contains an array of objects with the following child members:

Gould, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9537

Redacted Fields in RDAP

March 2024

"name":

REQUIRED

 logical name for the redacted field. The logical name used for the redacted

field is up to server policy. The logical name is defined using an object with a "type" field
denoting a registered redacted name (see Section 6.2) or a "description" field denoting an
unregistered redacted name. The registered redacted names and the chosen unregistered
names can meet the needs of different RDAP services or industries.

"prePath":

OPTIONAL

 JSON path expression referencing a redacted JSON field in the pre-

redacted response, using the expression language defined by the "pathLang" member. The
"prePath" member
response for the
Replacement Value Method (Section 3.4)
"postPath" member is set.

 be set when the redacted field does not exist in the redacted

Redaction by Removal Method (Section 3.1)

. The "prePath" member

Redaction by

 be set when the

MUST NOT

 and the

MAY

"postPath":

OPTIONAL

 JSON path expression referencing a redacted JSON field in the redacted

(post-redacted) response, using the expression language defined by the "pathLang" member.
The "postPath" member
response for the
Value Method (Section 3.3)
The "postPath" member

Redaction by Partial
Redaction by Replacement Value Method (Section 3.4)
.

 be set when the redacted field does exist in the redacted

Redaction by Empty Value Method (Section 3.2)

 be set when the "prePath" member is set.

, and the

MUST NOT

MUST

, the

"replacementPath":

OPTIONAL

Redaction by Replacement Value Method (Section 3.4)

 JSON path expression of the replacement field of the redacted
, using the expression

field with the
language defined by the "pathLang" member.

"pathLang":

OPTIONAL

 JSON path expression language used, with the default value of

"jsonpath" for JSONPath
the "redacted expression language" Type in the "RDAP JSON Values" registry
based on server policy.

. Other JSON path expression languages registered with
 be used

[RFC9535]

MAY

"method":

OPTIONAL

 redaction method used, with one of the following values:

•

"removal" indicating the

Redaction by Removal Method (Section 3.1)

,

•

"emptyValue" indicating the

Redaction by Empty Value Method (Section 3.2)

,

•

"partialValue" indicating the

Redaction by Partial Value Method (Section 3.3)

, or

•

"replacementValue" indicating the

Redaction by Replacement Value Method (Section 3.4)
.

The default value is "removal" when not provided.

"reason":

OPTIONAL

[RFC9083]

 member. The default language is "en" if the "lang"

 human-readable reason(s) for the redacted field in the language defined by
 member is
 "type" field denoting a
 "description" field denoting an

the "lang"
not specified. The reason is defined using an object with an
registered redacted reason (see Section 6.2) and an
unregistered redacted reason. The "description" field
dependency.

 be a client processing

[RFC9083]

OPTIONAL

OPTIONAL

MUST NOT

Example of the unredacted version of an RDAP lookup response:

Gould, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9537

Redacted Fields in RDAP

March 2024

    {
      "rdapConformance": [
        "rdap_level_0"
      ],
      "objectClassName": "domain",
      "handle": "ABC123",
      "ldhName": "example.com",
      "secureDNS": {
        "delegationSigned": false
      },
      "notices": [
        {
          "title": "Terms of Use",
          "description": [
            "Service subject to Terms of Use."
          ],
          "links": [
            {
              "rel": "self",
              "href": "https://www.example.com/terms-of-use",
              "type": "text/html",
              "value": "https://www.example.com/terms-of-use"
            }
          ]
        }
      ],
      "nameservers": [
        {
          "objectClassName": "nameserver",
          "ldhName": "ns1.example.com"
        },
        {
          "objectClassName": "nameserver",
          "ldhName": "ns2.example.com"
        }
      ],
      "entities": [
        {
          "objectClassName": "entity",
          "handle": "123",
          "roles": [
            "registrar"
          ],
          "publicIds": [
            {
              "type": "IANA Registrar ID",
              "identifier": "1"
            }
          ],
          "vcardArray": [
            "vcard",
            [
              [
                "version",
                {},
                "text",
                "4.0"

Gould, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9537

Redacted Fields in RDAP

March 2024

              ],
              [
                "fn",
                {},
                "text",
                "Example Registrar Inc."
              ],
              [
                "adr",
                {},
                "text",
                [
                  "",
                  "Suite 100",
                  "123 Example Dr.",
                  "Dulles",
                  "VA",
                  "20166-6503",
                  "US"
                ]
              ],
              [
                "email",
                {},
                "text",
                "contact@organization.example"
              ],
              [
                "tel",
                {
                  "type": "voice"
                },
                "uri",
                "tel:+1.7035555555;ext=1234"
              ],
              [
                "tel",
                {
                  "type": "fax"
                },
                "uri",
                "tel:+1.7035555556"
              ]
            ]
          ],
          "entities": [
            {
              "objectClassName": "entity",
              "roles": [
                "abuse"
              ],
              "vcardArray": [
                "vcard",
                [
                  [
                    "version",
                    {},
                    "text",

Gould, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9537

Redacted Fields in RDAP

March 2024

                    "4.0"
                  ],
                  [
                    "fn",
                    {},
                    "text",
                    "Abuse Contact"
                  ],
                  [
                    "email",
                    {},
                    "text",
                    "abuse@organization.example"
                  ],
                  [
                    "tel",
                    {
                      "type": "voice"
                    },
                    "uri",
                    "tel:+1.7035555555;ext=1234"
                  ]
                ]
              ]
            }
          ]
        },
        {
          "objectClassName": "entity",
          "handle": "XXXX",
          "roles": [
            "registrant"
          ],
          "vcardArray": [
            "vcard",
            [
              [
                "version",
                {},
                "text",
                "4.0"
              ],
              [
                "fn",
                {},
                "text",
                "Registrant User"
              ],
              [
                "org",
                {},
                "text",
                "Example Inc."
              ],
              [
                "adr",
                {},
                "text",

Gould, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9537

Redacted Fields in RDAP

March 2024

                [
                  "",
                  "Suite 1235",
                  "4321 Rue Somewhere",
                  "Quebec",
                  "QC",
                  "G1V 2M2",
                  "Canada"
                ]
              ],
              [
                "email",
                {},
                "text",
                "registrant.user@example.com"
              ],
              [
                "tel",
                {
                  "type": "voice"
                },
                "uri",
                "tel:+1-555-555-1235;ext=123"
              ],
              [
                "tel",
                {
                  "type": "fax"
                },
                "uri",
                "tel:+1-555-555-5321"
              ]
            ]
          ]
        },
        {
          "objectClassName": "entity",
          "handle": "YYYY",
          "roles": [
            "technical"
          ],
          "vcardArray": [
            "vcard",
            [
              [
                "version",
                {},
                "text",
                "4.0"
              ],
              [
                "fn",
                {},
                "text",
                "Technical User"
              ],
              [
                "org",

Gould, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9537

Redacted Fields in RDAP

March 2024

                {},
                "text",
                "Example Inc."
              ],
              [
                "adr",
                {},
                "text",
                [
                  "",
                  "Suite 1234",
                  "4321 Rue Somewhere",
                  "Quebec",
                  "QC",
                  "G1V 2M2",
                  "Canada"
                ]
              ],
              [
                "email",
                {},
                "text",
                "technical.user@example.com"
              ],
              [
                "tel",
                {
                  "type": "voice"
                },
                "uri",
                "tel:+1-555-555-1234;ext=321"
              ],
              [
                "tel",
                {
                  "type": "fax"
                },
                "uri",
                "tel:+1-555-555-4321"
              ]
            ]
          ]
        },
        {
          "objectClassName": "entity",
          "handle": "ZZZZ",
          "roles": [
            "administrative"
          ],
          "vcardArray": [
            "vcard",
            [
              [
                "version",
                {},
                "text",
                "4.0"
              ],

Gould, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9537

Redacted Fields in RDAP

March 2024

              [
                "fn",
                {},
                "text",
                "Administrative User"
              ],
              [
                "org",
                {},
                "text",
                "Example Inc."
              ],
              [
                "adr",
                {},
                "text",
                [
                  "",
                  "Suite 1236",
                  "4321 Rue Somewhere",
                  "Quebec",
                  "QC",
                  "G1V 2M2",
                  "Canada"
                ]
              ],
              [
                "email",
                {},
                "text",
                "administrative.user@example.com"
              ],
              [
                "tel",
                {
                  "type": "voice"
                },
                "uri",
                "tel:+1-555-555-1236;ext=789"
              ],
              [
                "tel",
                {
                  "type": "fax"
                },
                "uri",
                "tel:+1-555-555-6321"
              ]
            ]
          ]
        },
        {
          "objectClassName": "entity",
          "handle": "WWWW",
          "roles": [
            "billing"
          ],
          "vcardArray": [

Gould, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9537

Redacted Fields in RDAP

March 2024

            "vcard",
            [
              [
                "version",
                {},
                "text",
                "4.0"
              ],
              [
                "fn",
                {},
                "text",
                "Billing User"
              ],
              [
                "email",
                {},
                "text",
                "billing.user@example.com"
              ]
            ]
          ]
        }
      ],
      "events": [
        {
          "eventAction": "registration",
          "eventDate": "1997-06-03T00:00:00Z"
        },
        {
          "eventAction": "last changed",
          "eventDate": "2020-05-28T01:35:00Z"
        },
        {
          "eventAction": "expiration",
          "eventDate": "2021-06-03T04:00:00Z"
        }
      ],
      "status": [
        "server delete prohibited",
        "server update prohibited",
        "server transfer prohibited",
        "client transfer prohibited"
      ]
    }

Figure 11: Unredacted RDAP Lookup Response

Example of the redacted version of an RDAP lookup response:

Gould, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9537

Redacted Fields in RDAP

March 2024

    {
      "rdapConformance": [
        "rdap_level_0",
        "redacted"
      ],
      "objectClassName": "domain",
      "ldhName": "example.com",
      "secureDNS": {
        "delegationSigned": false
      },
      "notices": [
        {
          "title": "Terms of Use",
          "description": [
            "Service subject to Terms of Use."
          ],
          "links": [
            {
              "rel": "self",
              "href": "https://www.example.com/terms-of-use",
              "type": "text/html",
              "value": "https://www.example.com/terms-of-use"
            }
          ]
        }
      ],
      "nameservers": [
        {
          "objectClassName": "nameserver",
          "ldhName": "ns1.example.com"
        },
        {
          "objectClassName": "nameserver",
          "ldhName": "ns2.example.com"
        }
      ],
      "entities": [
        {
          "objectClassName": "entity",
          "handle": "123",
          "roles": [
            "registrar"
          ],
          "publicIds": [
            {
              "type": "IANA Registrar ID",
              "identifier": "1"
            }
          ],
          "vcardArray": [
            "vcard",
            [
              [
                "version",
                {},
                "text",
                "4.0"

Gould, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9537

Redacted Fields in RDAP

March 2024

              ],
              [
                "fn",
                {},
                "text",
                "Example Registrar Inc."
              ],
              [
                "adr",
                {},
                "text",
                [
                  "",
                  "Suite 100",
                  "123 Example Dr.",
                  "Dulles",
                  "VA",
                  "20166-6503",
                  "US"
                ]
              ],
              [
                "email",
                {},
                "text",
                "contact@organization.example"
              ],
              [
                "tel",
                {
                  "type": "voice"
                },
                "uri",
                "tel:+1.7035555555"
              ],
              [
                "tel",
                {
                  "type": "fax"
                },
                "uri",
                "tel:+1.7035555556"
              ]
            ]
          ],
          "entities": [
            {
              "objectClassName": "entity",
              "roles": [
                "abuse"
              ],
              "vcardArray": [
                "vcard",
                [
                  [
                    "version",
                    {},
                    "text",

Gould, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9537

Redacted Fields in RDAP

March 2024

                    "4.0"
                  ],
                  [
                    "fn",
                    {},
                    "text",
                    "Abuse Contact"
                  ],
                  [
                    "email",
                    {},
                    "text",
                    "abuse@organization.example"
                  ],
                  [
                    "tel",
                    {
                      "type": "voice"
                    },
                    "uri",
                    "tel:+1.7035555555"
                  ]
                ]
              ]
            }
          ]
        },
        {
          "objectClassName": "entity",
          "handle": "XXXX",
          "roles": [
            "registrant"
          ],
          "vcardArray": [
            "vcard",
            [
              [
                "version",
                {},
                "text",
                "4.0"
              ],
              [
                "fn",
                {},
                "text",
                ""
              ],
              [
                "adr",
                {},
                "text",
                [
                  "",
                  "",
                  "",
                  "",
                  "QC",

Gould, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9537

Redacted Fields in RDAP

March 2024

                  "",
                  "Canada"
                ]
              ]
            ]
          ]
        },
        {
          "objectClassName": "entity",
          "handle": "YYYY",
          "roles": [
            "technical"
          ],
          "vcardArray": [
            "vcard",
            [
              [
                "version",
                {},
                "text",
                "4.0"
              ],
              [
                "fn",
                {},
                "text",
                ""
              ],
              [
                "org",
                {},
                "text",
                "Example Inc."
              ],
              [
                "adr",
                {},
                "text",
                [
                  "",
                  "Suite 1234",
                  "4321 Rue Somewhere",
                  "Quebec",
                  "QC",
                  "G1V 2M2",
                  "Canada"
                ]
              ]
            ]
          ]
        }
      ],
      "events": [
        {
          "eventAction": "registration",
          "eventDate": "1997-06-03T00:00:00Z"
        },
        {

Gould, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9537

Redacted Fields in RDAP

March 2024

          "eventAction": "last changed",
          "eventDate": "2020-05-28T01:35:00Z"
        },
        {
          "eventAction": "expiration",
          "eventDate": "2021-06-03T04:00:00Z"
        }
      ],
      "status": [
        "server delete prohibited",
        "server update prohibited",
        "server transfer prohibited",
        "client transfer prohibited"
      ],
      "redacted": [
        {
          "name": {
            "description": "Registry Domain ID"
          },
          "prePath": "$.handle",
          "pathLang": "jsonpath",
          "method": "removal",
          "reason": {
            "description": "Server policy"
          }
        },
        {
          "name": {
            "description": "Registrant Name"
          },
          "postPath": "$.entities[?(@.roles[0]=='registrant')].
            vcardArray[1][?(@[0]=='fn')][3]",
          "pathLang": "jsonpath",
          "method": "emptyValue",
          "reason": {
            "description": "Server policy"
          }
        },
        {
          "name": {
            "description": "Registrant Organization"
          },
          "prePath": "$.entities[?(@.roles[0]=='registrant')].
            vcardArray[1][?(@[0]=='org')]",
          "pathLang": "jsonpath",
          "method": "removal",
          "reason": {
            "description": "Server policy"
          }
        },
        {
          "name": {
            "description": "Registrant Street"
          },
          "postPath": "$.entities[?(@.roles[0]=='registrant')].
            vcardArray[1][?(@[0]=='adr')][3][:3]",
          "pathLang": "jsonpath",
          "method": "emptyValue",

Gould, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9537

Redacted Fields in RDAP

March 2024

          "reason": {
            "description": "Server policy"
          }
        },
        {
          "name": {
            "description": "Registrant City"
          },
          "postPath": "$.entities[?(@.roles[0]=='registrant')].
            vcardArray[1][?(@[0]=='adr')][3][3]",
          "pathLang": "jsonpath",
          "method": "emptyValue",
          "reason": {
            "description": "Server policy"
          }
        },
        {
          "name": {
            "description": "Registrant Postal Code"
          },
          "postPath": "$.entities[?(@.roles[0]=='registrant')].
            vcardArray[1][?(@[0]=='adr')][3][5]",
          "pathLang": "jsonpath",
          "method": "emptyValue",
          "reason": {
            "description": "Server policy"
          }
        },
        {
          "name": {
            "description": "Registrant Email"
          },
          "prePath": "$.entities[?(@.roles[0]=='registrant')].
            vcardArray[1][?(@[0]=='email')]",
          "method": "removal",
          "reason": {
            "description": "Server policy"
          }
        },
        {
          "name": {
            "description": "Registrant Phone"
          },
          "prePath": "$.entities[?(@.roles[0]=='registrant')].
            vcardArray[1][?(@[1].type=='voice')]",
          "method": "removal",
          "reason": {
            "description": "Server policy"
          }
        },
        {
          "name": {
            "description": "Technical Name"
          },
          "postPath": "$.entities[?(@.roles[0]=='technical')].
            vcardArray[1][?(@[0]=='fn')][3]",
          "method": "emptyValue",
          "reason": {

Gould, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9537

Redacted Fields in RDAP

March 2024

            "description": "Server policy"
          }
        },
        {
          "name": {
            "description": "Technical Email"
          },
          "prePath": "$.entities[?(@.roles[0]=='technical')].
            vcardArray[1][?(@[0]=='email')]",
          "method": "removal",
          "reason": {
            "description": "Server policy"
          }
        },
        {
          "name": {
            "description": "Technical Phone"
          },
          "prePath": "$.entities[?(@.roles[0]=='technical')].
            vcardArray[1][?(@[1].type=='voice')]",
          "method": "removal",
          "reason": {
            "description": "Server policy"
          }
        },
        {
          "name": {
            "description": "Technical Fax"
          },
          "prePath": "$.entities[?(@.roles[0]=='technical')].
            vcardArray[1][?(@[1].type=='fax')]",
          "reason": {
            "description": "Client request"
          }
        },
        {
          "name": {
            "description": "Administrative Contact"
          },
          "prePath": "$.entities[?(@.roles[0]=='administrative')]",
          "method": "removal",
          "reason": {
            "description": "Refer to the technical contact"
          }
        },
        {
          "name": {
            "description": "Billing Contact"
          },
          "prePath": "$.entities[?(@.roles[0]=='billing')]",
          "method": "removal",
          "reason": {
            "description": "Refer to the registrant contact"
          }
        }

Gould, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9537

Redacted Fields in RDAP

March 2024

      ]
    }

Figure 12: Redacted RDAP Lookup Response

Example of the unredacted version of an RDAP search response:

  {
    "rdapConformance": [
      "rdap_level_0"
    ],
    "domainSearchResults":[
      {
        "objectClassName": "domain",
        "handle": "ABC121",
        "ldhName": "example1.com",
        "links":[
          {
            "value":"https://example.com/rdap/domain/example1.com",
            "rel":"self",
            "href":"https://example.com/rdap/domain/example1.com",
            "type":"application/rdap+json"
          },
          {
            "value":"https://example.com/rdap/domain/example1.com",
            "rel":"related",
            "href":"https://example.com/rdap/domain/example1.com",
            "type":"application/rdap+json"
          }
        ]
      },
      {
        "objectClassName": "domain",
        "handle": "ABC122",
        "ldhName": "example2.com",
        "links":[
          {
            "value":"https://example.com/rdap/domain/example2.com",
            "rel":"self",
            "href":"https://example.com/rdap/domain/example2.com",
            "type":"application/rdap+json"
          },
          {
            "value":"https://example.com/rdap/domain/example2.com",
            "rel":"related",
            "href":"https://example.com/rdap/domain/example2.com",
            "type":"application/rdap+json"
          }
        ]
      }
    ]
  }

Figure 13: Unredacted RDAP Search Response

Gould, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9537

Redacted Fields in RDAP

March 2024

Example of the redacted version of an RDAP search response:

Gould, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9537

Redacted Fields in RDAP

March 2024

  {
    "rdapConformance": [
      "rdap_level_0",
      "redacted"
    ],
    "domainSearchResults":[
      {
        "objectClassName": "domain",
        "ldhName": "example1.com",
        "links":[
          {
            "value":"https://example.com/rdap/domain/example1.com",
            "rel":"self",
            "href":"https://example.com/rdap/domain/example1.com",
            "type":"application/rdap+json"
          },
          {
            "value":"https://example.com/rdap/domain/example1.com",
            "rel":"related",
            "href":"https://example.com/rdap/domain/example1.com",
            "type":"application/rdap+json"
          }
        ],
        "redacted": [
          {
            "name": {
              "type": "Registry Domain ID"
            },
            "prePath": "$.domainSearchResults[0].handle",
            "pathLang": "jsonpath",
            "method": "removal",
            "reason": {
              "type": "Server policy"
            }
          }
        ]
      },
      {
        "objectClassName": "domain",
        "ldhName": "example2.com",
        "links":[
          {
            "value":"https://example.com/rdap/domain/example2.com",
            "rel":"self",
            "href":"https://example.com/rdap/domain/example2.com",
            "type":"application/rdap+json"
          },
          {
            "value":"https://example.com/rdap/domain/example2.com",
            "rel":"related",
            "href":"https://example.com/rdap/domain/example2.com",
            "type":"application/rdap+json"
          }
        ],
        "redacted": [
          {
            "name": {

Gould, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9537

Redacted Fields in RDAP

March 2024

              "description": "Registry Domain ID"
            },
            "prePath": "$.domainSearchResults[1].handle",
            "pathLang": "jsonpath",
            "method": "removal",
            "reason": {
              "description": "Server policy"
            }
          }
        ]
      }
    ]
  }

Figure 14: Redacted RDAP Search Response

5.  JSONPath Considerations

JSONPath [RFC9535]
JSONPath considerations for clients and servers.

 is the default JSON path expression language. This section includes

5.1.  JSONPath Client Considerations

This section covers considerations for clients that receive responses from servers using JSONPath
[RFC9535]
member of redacted objects in the "redacted" member. The list of JSONPath client considerations
include:

 to identify redacted RDAP fields with the "prePath", "postPath", or "replacementPath"

1.

When the server is using the
Replacement Value Method (Section 3.4)
expression of the "prePath" member will not resolve successfully with the redacted response.
The client can key off the "name" member for display logic related to the redaction.

 with an alternative field value, the JSONPath

Redaction by Removal Method (Section 3.1)

Redaction by

 or the

5.2.  JSONPath Server Considerations

This section covers considerations for servers using JSONPath
RDAP fields with the "prePath", "postPath", or "replacementPath" member of redacted objects in
the "redacted" member. The list of JSONPath considerations include:

 to identify redacted

[RFC9535]

1.

Use absolute paths with the '$' JSONPath element. An example is "$.handle" for the "Registry
Domain ID" in a lookup response or "$.domainSearchResults[0].handle" in a search response.

2.

Validate a JSONPath expression with the non-redacted RDAP response when using the
"prePath" member, where evaluating the expression results in returning the redacted field.

3.

Reference the removed object field when redacting an entire object by the
Removal Method (Section 3.1)
example is "$.entities[?(@.roles[0]=='administrative')]" for the entire "Administrative
Contact".

, where all of the object's child fields are explicitly removed. An

Redaction by

Gould, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9537

Redacted Fields in RDAP

March 2024

4.

Use multiple bases for the redaction of certain content. For example, if server policy is such
that all administrative-role entities are redacted and all technical-role entities are redacted,
then an entity having both the administrative role and the technical role could be redacted
for two different reasons. In this situation, a server is required to include at least one
"redacted" entry, but it should consider including a separate "redacted" entry for each
applicable basis for redaction to clearly document the server policies that are relevant to
redaction in each instance.

5.

Reference the removed field when using the
example is "$.handle" for the "Registry Domain ID".

Redaction by Removal Method (Section 3.1)

. An

6.

Reference index 0 of the jCard property array, which is the jCard "name" property, with a
filter expression containing the name of the field when redacting a jCard field using the
Redaction by Removal Method (Section 3.1)
(@.roles[0]=='registrant')].vcardArray[1][?(@[0]=='email')]" for the "Registrant Email".

. An example is "$.entities[?

7.

Redaction by Empty Value Method (Section 3.2)

Reference the jCard field value or values redacted by array index 3 and greater when
. The jCard
redacting a jCard field using the
property array index 3 and greater contain the property values, where the property values
set with an empty value are referenced directly in place of the jCard property name. Servers
can then systematically redact the jCard field value or values based on the JSONPath
expressions, and clients will directly know which jCard property values have been redacted.
An example is "$.entities[?(@.roles[0]=='registrant')].vcardArray[1][?(@[0]=='fn')][3]" for the
"Registrant Name" or "$.entities[?(@.roles[0]=='registrant')].vcardArray[1][?(@[0]=='adr')][3]
[5]" for the "Registrant Postal Code".

8.

RDAP extensions should define any special JSONPath considerations required to identify
redacted RDAP fields if these considerations are insufficient.

6.  IANA Considerations

6.1.  RDAP Extensions Registry

IANA has registered the following value in the "RDAP Extensions" registry:

Extension Identifier:

redacted

Registry Operator:

Any

Specification:

RFC 9537

Contact:

IETF <iesg@ietf.org>

Intended Usage:

This extension identifies the redacted fields in an RDAP response.

Gould, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 9537

Redacted Fields in RDAP

March 2024

6.2.  RDAP JSON Values Registry

 defines the "RDAP JSON Values" registry with predefined Type field

Section 10.2 of [RFC9083]
values and a registration policy of Expert Review
. This specification defines three new
Type field values that can be used to register predefined redacted name, reason, and expression
language values. IANA has updated the "RDAP JSON Values" registry to accept these additional
Type field values as follows:

[RFC8126]

"redacted name":

Redacted name being registered. The registered redacted name is referenced

using the "type" field of the redacted "name" field.

"redacted reason":

Redacted reason being registered. The registered redacted reason is

referenced using the "type" field of the redacted "reason" field.

"redacted expression language":

Redacted expression language being registered. The registered

redacted expression language is referenced using the "pathLang" field.

IANA has also listed this document as a reference for the "RDAP JSON Values" registry and has
registered the following value:

Value:

jsonpath

Type:

redacted expression language

Description:

JSON path expression language, as defined in RFC 9535.

Registrant:

IETF

Contact Information:

iesg@ietf.org

Reference:

RFC 9537

7.  Security Considerations

The extension described in this document does not provide any security services beyond those
described by

[RFC9083]
.

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Gould, et al.

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 9537

Redacted Fields in RDAP

March 2024

[RFC6350]

[RFC7095]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8259]

[RFC9082]

[RFC9083]

[RFC9535]

Perreault, S. "vCard Format Specification" RFC 6350 DOI 10.17487/RFC6350
,
August 2011,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6350>

.

,

,

Kewisch, P. "jCard: The JSON Format for vCard" RFC 7095 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7095

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7095>

, January 2014,

,

,

,

.

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

, June

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Bray, T., Ed. "The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data Interchange Format"
STD 90 RFC 8259 DOI 10.17487/RFC8259
editor.org/info/rfc8259>

, December 2017,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

,

Hollenbeck, S.
Format" STD 95 RFC 9082 DOI 10.17487/RFC9082
editor.org/info/rfc9082>
.

A. Newton "Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP) Query
<https://www.rfc-

, June 2021,

 and
,

,

,

,

Hollenbeck, S.
,
 and
Protocol (RDAP)" STD 95 RFC 9083 DOI 10.17487/RFC9083
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9083>

,

,

.

A. Newton "JSON Responses for the Registration Data Access

, June 2021,

<https://

,

Gössner, S., Ed. Normington, G., Ed.
Expressions for JSON" RFC 9535 DOI 10.17487/RFC9535
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9535>
.

, and

,

C. Bormann, Ed. "JSONPath: Query
,

, February 2024,

<https://

8.2.  Informative References

[RDAP-JSCONTACT]

 and

Loffredo, M.

G. Brown "Using JSContact in Registration Data Access
Protocol (RDAP) JSON Responses" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-
regext-rdap-jscontact-17
html/draft-ietf-regext-rdap-jscontact-17>

,
,
, 7 December 2023,

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/

,

.

Acknowledgements

The authors wish to thank the following persons for their feedback and suggestions:
Blanchet Tom Harrison Scott Hollenbeck Pawel Kowalik Mario Loffredo Gustavo Lozano Andy
,
Newton Jasdip Singh

Rick Wilhelm
.

,
, and

Marc

,
,

,

,

,

Gould, et al.

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 9537

Redacted Fields in RDAP

March 2024

Authors' Addresses

James Gould
VeriSign, Inc.
12061 Bluemont Way
Reston VA 20190
United States of America
Email:
URI:

 jgould@verisign.com
 http://www.verisign.com

,

David Smith
VeriSign, Inc.
12061 Bluemont Way
Reston VA 20190
United States of America
Email:
URI:

 dsmith@verisign.com
 http://www.verisign.com

,

Jody Kolker
GoDaddy Inc.
14455 N. Hayden Rd., #219
Scottsdale AZ 85260
,
United States of America
Email:
URI:

 jkolker@godaddy.com
 http://www.godaddy.com

Roger Carney
GoDaddy Inc.
14455 N. Hayden Rd., #219
Scottsdale AZ 85260
,
United States of America
Email:
URI:

 rcarney@godaddy.com
 http://www.godaddy.com

Gould, et al.

Standards Track

Page 31

