Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9538
Standards Track
February 2024
2070-1721
F. Fieau,
Orange

E. Stephan
Orange

S. Mishra
Verizon

 Ed.

RFC 9538
Content Delivery Network Interconnection (CDNI)
Delegation Using the Automated Certificate
Management Environment

Abstract

This document defines metadata to support delegating the delivery of HTTPS content between
two or more interconnected Content Delivery Networks (CDNs). Specifically, this document
defines a Content Delivery Network Interconnection (CDNI) Metadata interface object to enable
delegation of X.509 certificates leveraging delegation schemes defined in RFC 9115. Per RFC 9115,
delegating entities can remain in full control of the delegation and can revoke it at any time. This
avoids the need to share private cryptographic key material between the involved entities.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9538
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in effect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Fieau, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9538

CDNI Delegation Using ACME

February 2024

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Terminology

2.  Advertising Delegation Metadata for CDNI through FCI

3.  ACME Delegation Metadata for CDNI

3.1.  ACMEDelegationMethod Object

3.1.1.  Examples

4.  IANA Considerations

4.1.  CDNI MI ACMEDelegationMethod Payload Type

5.  Security Considerations

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

6.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

2

3

3

4

6

6

7

7

8

8

8

9

9

9

Content delivery over HTTPS using two or more cooperating CDNs along the path requires
credential management, specifically when DNS-based redirection is used. In such cases, an
upstream CDN (uCDN) needs to delegate its credentials to a downstream CDN (dCDN) for content
delivery.

 defines delegation methods that allow a uCDN on behalf of the content provider, the

[RFC9115]
holder of the domain, to generate on-demand an X.509 certificate that binds the designated
domain name with a key pair owned by the dCDN. For further details, please refer to Sections 1
and 5.1.2.1 of

[RFC9115]
.

This document defines CDNI Metadata to make use of HTTPS delegation between a uCDN and a
dCDN based on the mechanism specified in
to the "CDNI Payload Types" IANA registry.

. Furthermore, it adds a delegation method

[RFC9115]

Fieau, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9538

CDNI Delegation Using ACME

February 2024

Section 2 presents delegation metadata for the Footprint & Capabilities Advertisement interface
(FCI). Section 3 addresses the metadata for handling HTTPS delegation with the Metadata
interface.

1.1.  Terminology

This document uses terminology from CDNI framework documents such as: CDNI framework
 and CDNI interface specifications documents: CDNI Metadata interface
document
[RFC8006]
terminology from
Automatically Renewed (STAR), as applied to X.509 certificates.

[RFC7336]
 and CDNI Footprint and Capabilities Advertisement interface

. It also uses
, including Short-Term,

Section 1.2 of [RFC8739]

Section 1.1 of [RFC9115]

[RFC8008]

 and

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Advertising Delegation Metadata for CDNI through FCI

The Footprint & Capabilities Advertisement interface (FCI) defined in
send a FCI capability type object to a uCDN.

[RFC8008]

 allows a dCDN to

This document uses the CDNI Metadata capability object serialization from
that supports delegation methods.

[RFC8008]

 for a CDN

The following is an example of the supported delegated methods capability object for a dCDN
implementing the ACME delegation method.

{
  "capabilities": [
    {
      "capability-type": "FCI.Metadata",
      "capability-value": {
        "metadata": [
          // list of supported delegation methods
          "ACMEDelegationMethod"
        ]
      },
      "footprints": [
        "Footprint objects"
      ]
    }
  ]
}

Fieau, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9538

CDNI Delegation Using ACME

February 2024

3.  ACME Delegation Metadata for CDNI

When a uCDN delegates the delivery of HTTPS traffic to a dCDN using DNS redirection
the dCDN must use a certificate bound to the origin's name to successfully authenticate to the
).
end-user (see also

Section 5.1.2.1 of [RFC9115]

[RFC7336]
,

To that end, this section defines the AcmeDelegationMethod object, which describes metadata for
using the ACME delegation interface

[RFC9115]
.

The ACMEDelegationMethod applies to both ACME STAR delegation, which provides a delegation
Section 2.3.2 of [RFC9115]
), and
model based on short-term certificates with automatic renewal (
non-STAR delegation, which allows delegation between CDNs using long-term certificates
Section 2.3.3 of [RFC9115]
(

).

Figure 1 provides a high-level view of the combined CDNI and ACME delegation message flows to
obtain a STAR certificate from the Certification Authority (CA) bound to the Content Provider's
(CP) name.

Fieau, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9538

CDNI Delegation Using ACME

February 2024

dCDN

uCDN

CP

CA

GET metadata
[CDNI]
200 OK, metadata
(inc. dele config)
[CDNI]

GET delegation
[ACME dele]
200 OK, delegation
(inc. CSR template)
[ACME dele]

create key pair and
CSR w/ delegated
name

POST Order1
[ACME dele]

forward Order1
[ACME dele]

POST Order2
[ACME STAR]

authorizations

wait issuance

wait issuance

wait issuance

(unauthenticated) GET star-certificate

certificate #1

...

Figure 1: Example Call Flow of STAR Delegation in CDNI Showing Two Levels of Delegation

Note: The delegation object defined in
mappings to be specified using CNAME RRs. A future document updating
could expand the delegation object to also include SVCB/HTTPS-based mappings
[RFC9460]
.

Section 2.3.1.3 of [RFC9115]

 only allows DNS
[RFC9115]

Fieau, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9538

CDNI Delegation Using ACME

February 2024

Section 3.1 defines the objects used for bootstrapping the ACME delegation method between a
uCDN and a delegate dCDN.

3.1.  ACMEDelegationMethod Object

The ACMEDelegationMethod object allows a uCDN to define both STAR and non-STAR
delegations. The dCDN, the consumer of the delegation, can determine the type of delegation by
the presence (or absence) of the "lifetime" property. That is, the presence of the "lifetime"
property explicitly means a short-term delegation with lifetime of the certificate based on that
property (and the optional "lifetime-adjust" attribute). A non-STAR delegation will not have the
"lifetime" property in the delegation. See also the examples in Section 3.1.1.

The ACMEDelegationMethod object is defined with the properties shown below.

•

Property: acme-delegation

◦
Description: A URL pointing at an ACME delegation object, either STAR or non-STAR,
associated with the dCDN account on the uCDN ACME server (see
[RFC9115]
◦
Type: String
◦
Mandatory-to-Specify: Yes

 for the details). The URL

 use the https scheme.

Section 2.3.1.3 of

MUST

•

Property: time-window

Section 4.3.4 of [RFC8006]

◦
Description: Validity period of the certificate. According to
TimeWindow object is defined by a window "start" time and a window "end" time. In the
case of a STAR method, the "start" and "end" properties of the window
respectively as the start-date and end-date of the certificate validity. In the case of a non-
STAR method, the "start" and "end" properties of the window
MUST
respectively, as the notBefore and notAfter fields of the certificate.
Type: TimeWindow
◦
◦
Mandatory-to-Specify: Yes

 be understood,

MUST

, a

 be understood

•

Property: lifetime

◦
Description: See lifetime in
◦
Type: Integer
◦
Mandatory-to-Specify: Yes, only if a STAR delegation method is specified

Section 3.1.1 of [RFC8739]

•

Property: lifetime-adjust

Description: See lifetime-adjust in
◦
Type: Integer
◦
◦
Mandatory-to-Specify: No

Section 3.1.1 of [RFC8739]

3.1.1.  Examples

The following example shows an ACMEDelegationMethod object for a STAR-based ACME
delegation.

Fieau, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9538

CDNI Delegation Using ACME

February 2024

{
  "generic-metadata-type": "MI.ACMEDelegationMethod",
  "generic-metadata-value": {
    "acme-delegation": "https://acme.ucdn.example/delegation/ogfr",
    "time-window": {
      "start": 1665417434,
      "end": 1665676634
    },
    "lifetime": 345600,
    "lifetime-adjust": 259200
  }
}

The example below shows an ACMEDelegationMethod object for a non-STAR ACME delegation.
The delegation object is defined as per

Section 4.3 of [RFC8006]
.

{
  "generic-metadata-type": "MI.ACMEDelegationMethod",
  "generic-metadata-value": {
    "acme-delegation": "https://acme.ucdn.example/delegation/wSi5",
    "time-window": {
      "start": 1570982234,
      "end": 1665417434
    }
  }
}

4.  IANA Considerations

Per this document, the following type has been registered in the "CDNI Payload Types" registry:

Payload Type

Reference

MI.ACMEDelegationMethod

RFC 9538

Table 1

4.1.  CDNI MI ACMEDelegationMethod Payload Type

Purpose:

The purpose of this Payload Type is to distinguish AcmeDelegationMethod MI objects

(and any associated capability advertisement)

Interface:

MI/FCI

Encoding:

See Section 3.1

Fieau, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9538

CDNI Delegation Using ACME

February 2024

5.  Security Considerations

The metadata object defined in this document does not introduce any new security or privacy
concerns over those already discussed in

[RFC9115] [RFC8006]
,

[RFC8008]
.

, and

Section 7.2 of [RFC9115]

). In particular, the reader is expected to understand

The reader is expected to understand the ACME delegation trust model (
and security goal (
that it is critical to protect the user account associated with the delegation; this account
authorizes all the security-relevant operations between a dCDN and a uCDN over the ACME
channel. The dCDN's ACME account is also relevant to the privacy of the entire scheme; for
example, the acme-delegation resource in the Metadata object is only accessible to the holder of
the account key, who is allowed to fetch its content exclusively via POST-as-GET (
Section 2.3.1.2 of
[RFC9115]

Section 7.1 of [RFC9115]
)

).

In addition, the Metadata interface authentication and confidentiality requirements defined in
Section 8 of [RFC8006] MUST

 be followed.

MUST

Implementers
"Content Delivery Network Interconnection (CDNI) Request Routing: Footprint and Capabilities
Semantics".

 adhere to the security considerations defined in

Section 7 of [RFC8008]
,

When TLS is used to achieve the above security objectives, the general TLS usage guidance in
[RFC9325] MUST

 be followed.

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC8006]

[RFC8008]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Niven-Jenkins, B. Murray, R. Caulfield, M.
Network Interconnection (CDNI) Metadata" RFC 8006 DOI 10.17487/RFC8006
December 2016,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8006>

K. Ma "Content Delivery

, and
,

,
,

,

.

,

,

,

Seedorf, J. Peterson, J. Previdi, S. van Brandenburg, R.
Delivery Network Interconnection (CDNI) Request Routing: Footprint and
Capabilities Semantics" RFC 8008 DOI 10.17487/RFC8008
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8008>

, December 2016,

K. Ma "Content

, and

,

,

.

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Fieau, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9538

CDNI Delegation Using ACME

February 2024

[RFC8739]

[RFC9115]

[RFC9325]

,

,

T. Fossati
Sheffer, Y. Lopez, D. Gonzalez de Dios, O. Pastor Perales, A.
,
"Support for Short-Term, Automatically Renewed (STAR) Certificates in the
Automated Certificate Management Environment (ACME)" RFC 8739 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8739>
10.17487/RFC8739
.

, March 2020,

, and

,

,

,

,

,

Sheffer, Y. López, D. Pastor Perales, A.
Management Environment (ACME) Profile for Generating Delegated
Certificates" RFC 9115 DOI 10.17487/RFC9115
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9115>

, September 2021,

, and

,

.

<https://

T. Fossati "An Automatic Certificate

,

,

, and

Sheffer, Y. Saint-Andre, P.
,
Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)"
BCP 195 RFC 9325 DOI 10.17487/RFC9325
editor.org/info/rfc9325>

T. Fossati "Recommendations for Secure Use of

, November 2022,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

,

6.2.  Informative References

[RFC7336]

[RFC9460]

,

Peterson, L. Davie, B.
Distribution Network Interconnection (CDNI)" RFC 7336 DOI 10.17487/RFC7336
,
August 2014,

R. van Brandenburg, Ed. "Framework for Content
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7336>

, and

,

,

.

Schwartz, B. Bishop, M.
,
,
Specification via the DNS (SVCB and HTTPS Resource Records)" RFC 9460 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9460>
10.17487/RFC9460
.

E. Nygren "Service Binding and Parameter

, November 2023,

, and

,

,

Acknowledgments

We would like to thank authors of the
Thomas Fossati
, and
participated in the drafting, reviewing, and giving his feedback in finalizing this document. We
also thank CDNI co-chair
development of this document.

,
. Additionally, our gratitude to

[RFC9115] Antonio Augustín Pastor Perales Diego López

 for his continual review and feedback during the

Thomas Fossati

Yaron Sheffer

,
 who

Kevin Ma

,

Authors' Addresses

editor
)

Frédéric Fieau (
Orange
40-48, avenue de la République
92320 Châtillon
France
Email:

 frederic.fieau@orange.com

Fieau, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9538

CDNI Delegation Using ACME

February 2024

Emile Stephan
Orange
2, avenue Pierre Marzin
22300 Lannion
France
Email:

 emile.stephan@orange.com

Sanjay Mishra
Verizon
13100 Columbia Pike
Silver Spring MD 20904
United States of America
Email:

,

 sanjay.mishra@verizon.com

Fieau, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

