Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9482
Standards Track
November 2023
2070-1721
M. Sahni,
Palo Alto Networks

S. Tripathi,
Palo Alto Networks

 Ed.

 Ed.

RFC 9482
Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP) Transfer
for the Certificate Management Protocol

Abstract

This document specifies the use of the Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP) as a transfer
mechanism for the Certificate Management Protocol (CMP). CMP defines the interaction between
various PKI entities for the purpose of certificate creation and management. CoAP is an HTTP-
like client-server protocol used by various constrained devices in the Internet of Things space.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9482
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in effect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Sahni & Tripathi

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9482

CoAP Transfer for CMP

November 2023

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

2.  CoAP Transfer Mechanism for CMP

2.1.  CoAP URI Format

2.2.  Discovery of CMP RA/CA

2.3.  CoAP Request Format

2.4.  CoAP Block-Wise Transfer Mode

2.5.  Multicast CoAP

2.6.  Announcement PKIMessage

3.  Proxy Support

4.  Security Considerations

5.  IANA Considerations

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

6.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

2

3

3

3

4

4

4

4

5

5

6

7

7

7

8

9

9

[RFC4210]
The Certificate Management Protocol (CMP)
generation and management of certificates. One of the requirements of CMP is to be independent
of the transport protocol in use. CMP has mechanisms to take care of required transactions, error
reporting, and protection of messages.

 is used by the PKI entities for the

The Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP) defined in
 is a
client-server protocol like HTTP. It is designed to be used by constrained devices over constrained
networks. The recommended transport for CoAP is UDP; however,
support of CoAP over TCP, TLS, and WebSockets.

[RFC7252] [RFC7959]
,

 specifies the

[RFC8323]

[RFC8323]

, and

Sahni & Tripathi

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9482

CoAP Transfer for CMP

November 2023

This document specifies the use of CoAP over UDP as a transport medium for
[RFC4210] CMP version 3 [RFC9480]
,
CMP Profile [RFC9483]
specifications defined in
mechanism for CMP.

 (designated as CMP in this document), and the
. In general, this document follows the HTTP transfer for CMP

[RFC6712]

 and specifies the requirements for using CoAP as a transfer

CMP version 2

Lightweight

This document also provides guidance on how to use a "CoAP-to-HTTP" proxy to ease adoption of
a CoAP transfer mechanism by enabling the interconnection with existing PKI entities already
providing CMP over HTTP.

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  CoAP Transfer Mechanism for CMP

A CMP transaction consists of exchanging PKIMessages
registration authorities (RAs), and certification authorities (CAs). If the EEs are constrained
devices, then they may prefer, as a CMP client, the use of CoAP instead of HTTP as the transfer
mechanism. In general, the RAs and CAs are not constrained and can support both CoAP and
HTTP client and server implementations. This section specifies how to use CoAP as the transfer
mechanism for CMP.

 between PKI end entities (EEs),

[RFC4210]

2.1.  CoAP URI Format

. The CoAP endpoints

Section 6 of [RFC7252]

 support
The CoAP URI format is described in
 and the registered name "cmp" to
use of the path prefix "/.well-known/" as defined in
 be added after
help with endpoint discovery and interoperability. Optional path segments
MAY
the registered application name (i.e., after "/.well-known/cmp") to provide distinction. The path
segment 'p' followed by an arbitraryLabel <name> could, for example, support the differentiation
of specific CAs or certificate profiles. Further path segments, for example, as specified in
Lightweight CMP Profile [RFC9483]
, could indicate PKI management operations using an
operationLabel <operation>. A valid full CMP URI can look like this:

[RFC8615]

MUST

    coap://www.example.com/.well-known/cmp
    coap://www.example.com/.well-known/cmp/<operation>
    coap://www.example.com/.well-known/cmp/p/<profileLabel>
    coap://www.example.com/.well-known/cmp/p/<profileLabel>/<operation>

Sahni & Tripathi

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9482

CoAP Transfer for CMP

November 2023

2.2.  Discovery of CMP RA/CA

The EEs can be configured with enough information to form the CMP server URI. The minimum
information that can be configured is the scheme, i.e., "coap:" or "coaps:", and the authority
portion of the URI, e.g., "example.com:5683". If the port number is not specified in the authority,
then the default port numbers
default port for "coap:" scheme URIs is 5683 and the default port for "coaps:" scheme URIs is 5684
[RFC7252]
.

 be assumed for the "coap:" and "coaps:" scheme URIs. The

MUST

Optionally, in the environments where a Local RA or CA is deployed, EEs can also use the CoAP
[RFC7252]
service discovery mechanism
endpoints supporting service discovery
RESTful Environments (CoRE) Link Format, as described in
'ct' attribute defined in
defined in the "CoAP Content-Formats" IANA registry.

 to discover the URI of the Local RA or CA. The CoAP CMP
 also support resource discovery in the Constrained
MUST
 include the

 with the value of "application/pkixcmp", as

Section 7.2.1 of [RFC7252]

[RFC6690]

. The link

MUST

2.3.  CoAP Request Format

 be DER encoded and sent as the body of the CoAP POST request. A

MUST

MUST

 send each CoAP request marked as a Confirmable message

The CMP PKIMessages
CMP client
CoAP request is successful, then the CMP RA or CA
otherwise, the CMP RA or CA
response code. A CMP RA or CA may choose to send a piggybacked response
client, or it
MAY
process the CMP transaction.

 send a separate response

[RFC7252]

MUST

MUST

 return an appropriate Client Error 4.xx or Server Error 5.xx

 in case it takes some time for the RA or CA to

[RFC7252]

 to the

. If the
 return a Success 2.xx response code;

[RFC7252]

When transferring CMP PKIMessage over CoAP, the content-format "application/pkixcmp"
be used.

MUST

2.4.  CoAP Block-Wise Transfer Mode

A CMP PKIMessage consists of a header, body, protection, and extraCerts structure, which may
contain many optional and potentially large fields. Thus, a CMP message can be much larger than
the Maximum Transmission Unit (MTU) of the outgoing interface of the device. The EEs and RAs
or CAs
 to transfer such large messages instead
of relying on IP fragmentation.

 use the block-wise transfer mode

[RFC7959]

MUST

If a CoAP-to-HTTP proxy is in the path between EEs and an RA or EEs and a CA and if the server
supports, then it
 to send data over the HTTP
transport. The proxy
 try to reduce the number of packets sent by using an optimal chunk
length for the HTTP transport.

 use the chunked transfer encoding

[RFC9112]

MUST

MUST

2.5.  Multicast CoAP

CMP PKIMessages sent over CoAP

MUST NOT

 use a Multicast destination address.

Sahni & Tripathi

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9482

CoAP Transfer for CMP

November 2023

2.6.  Announcement PKIMessage

A CMP server may publish announcements that can be triggered by an event or periodically for
the other PKI entities. Here is the list of CMP announcement messages prefixed by their
Section 5.1.2 of [RFC4210]
respective ASN.1 identifier (see

):

      [15] CA Key Update Announcement
      [16] Certificate Announcement
      [17] Revocation Announcement
      [18] CRL Announcement

MAY

 use the CoAP Observe Option

[RFC7641]
An EE
messages from the RA or CA. The EE can send a GET request to the server's URI suffixed by "/
ann". For example, a path to register for announcement messages may look like this:

 to register itself to get any announcement

    coap://www.example.com/.well-known/cmp/ann
    coap://www.example.com/.well-known/cmp/p/<profileLabel>/ann

MUST

 send an appropriate Client Error 4.xx or Server Error 5.xx

If the server supports CMP announcement messages, then it
2.xx response code; otherwise, it
response code. If for some reason the server cannot add the client to its list of observers for the
announcements, it can omit the Observe Option
receiving a Success 2.xx response without the Observe Option
client
remove the EE from the list of observers for announcement messages, an EE
periodically reregister itself for announcement messages.

, after some time, a
 try to register again for announcements from the CMP server. Since a server can

 in the response to the client. Upon

 send an appropriate Success

[RFC7641]

[RFC7641]

SHOULD

MUST

MAY

MAY

 periodically poll for the current status of the CA via the "PKI

Alternatively, an EE
Information Request" message; see
"support messages" defined in
information about the CA status. These mechanisms will help constrained devices that are acting
as EEs to conserve resources by eliminating the need to create an endpoint for receiving
notifications from the RA or CA. It will also simplify the implementation of a CoAP-to-HTTP
proxy.

Section 4.3 of Lightweight CMP Profile [RFC9483]

Section 6.5 of [RFC4210]

. If supported, EEs

 also use

 to get

MAY

3.  Proxy Support

This section provides guidance on using a CoAP-to-HTTP proxy between EEs and RAs or CAs in
order to avoid changes to the existing PKI implementation.

Since the CMP payload is the same over CoAP and HTTP transfer mechanisms, a CoAP-to-HTTP
. The CoAP-to-HTTP
cross-protocol proxy can be implemented based on
proxy can either be located closer to the EEs or closer to the RA or CA. The proxy
 support
service discovery and resource discovery, as described in Section 2.2. The CoAP-to-HTTP proxy

Section 10 of [RFC7252]

MAY

Sahni & Tripathi

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9482

CoAP Transfer for CMP

November 2023

 function as a reverse proxy, only permitting connections to a limited set of preconfigured
MUST
servers. It is out of scope of this document to specify how a reverse proxy can route CoAP client
requests to one of the configured servers. Some recommended mechanisms are as follows:

•

Use the Uri-Path option to identify a server.

•

Use separate hostnames for each of the configured servers and then use the Uri-Host option
for routing the CoAP requests.

•

Use separate hostnames for each of the configured servers and then use Server Name
Indication

 in case of the "coaps://" scheme for routing CoAP requests.

[RFC8446]

4.  Security Considerations

•

If PKIProtection is used, the PKIHeader and PKIBody of the CMP are cryptographically
protected against malicious modifications. As such, UDP can be used without compromising
the security of the CMP. Security considerations for CoAP are defined in

[RFC7252]

.

•

The CMP does not provide confidentiality of the CMP payloads. If confidentiality is desired,
CoAP over DTLS
although, it cannot conceal that the CMP is used within the DTLS layer.

 be used to provide confidentiality for the CMP payloads;

[RFC9147] SHOULD

• Section 9.1 of [RFC7252]
 associations

 defines how to use DTLS
[RFC9147]
SHOULD
additional overhead of DTLS on constrained devices.

 be kept alive and reused where possible to amortize on the

[RFC9147]

 for securing CoAP. DTLS

•

[RFC7641]

An EE might not witness all of the announcement messages when using the CoAP Observe
Option
lose its state for subscribers to its announcement messages. The EEs may use an alternate
method described in Section 2.6 to obtain time critical changes, such as Certificate
Revocation List (CRL)

, since the Observe Option is a "best-effort" approach and the server might

[RFC5280]

 updates.

•

Implementations
datagrams containing partial CMP PKIMessage data in order to reduce memory usage for
packet buffering.

 use the available datagram size and avoid sending small

SHOULD

•

A CoAP-to-HTTP proxy can also protect the PKI entities by handling UDP and CoAP messages.
The proxy can mitigate attacks, like denial-of-service attacks, replay attacks, and resource-
exhaustion attacks, by enforcing basic checks, like validating that the ASN.1 syntax is
compliant to CMP messages and validating the PKIMessage protection before sending them
to PKI entities.

•

Since the proxy may have access to the CMP-level metadata and control over the flow of CMP
messages, proper role-based access control should be in place. The proxy can be deployed at
the edge of the "end entities" network or in front of an RA and CA to protect them. However,
the proxy may itself be vulnerable to resource-exhaustion attacks as it's required to buffer
the CMP messages received over CoAP transport before sending it to the HTTP endpoint. This
can be mitigated by using short timers for discarding the buffered messages and rate
limiting clients based on the resource usage.

Sahni & Tripathi

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9482

CoAP Transfer for CMP

November 2023

5.  IANA Considerations

IANA has registered "application/pkixcmp" (ID 259) in the "CoAP Content-Formats" registry to
transfer CMP transactions over CoAP.

Type name:
Subtype name:
Reference:

application
pkixcmp

RFC 9482

[RFC4210]

IANA has also registered a new path segment "ann" in the "CMP Well-Known URI Path Segments"
registry for the EEs to register themselves for the announcement messages.

Path Segment:
Description:

ann

The path to send a GET request with the CoAP Observe Option to register for CMP

announcement messages.

Reference:

RFC 9482

IANA has added this document as a reference for the "cmp" entry in the "Well-Known URIs"
registry.

IANA has also added this document as a reference for the "p" entry in the "CMP Well-Known URI
Path Segments" registry.

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC4210]

[RFC6690]

[RFC6712]

[RFC7252]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Adams, C. Farrell, S. Kause, T.
Infrastructure Certificate Management Protocol (CMP)" RFC 4210 DOI 10.17487/
RFC4210

T. Mononen "Internet X.509 Public Key
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4210>

, September 2005,

, and

,

,

,

.

Shelby, Z. "Constrained RESTful Environments (CoRE) Link Format" RFC 6690
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6690>
DOI 10.17487/RFC6690

, August 2012,

,

,

,
.

 and

Kause, T.
M. Peylo "Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure -- HTTP
Transfer for the Certificate Management Protocol (CMP)" RFC 6712 DOI
10.17487/RFC6712

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6712>

, September 2012,

,

,

.

Shelby, Z. Hartke, K.
,
(CoAP)" RFC 7252 DOI 10.17487/RFC7252
editor.org/info/rfc7252>

, and

,

,

.

C. Bormann "The Constrained Application Protocol

,

, June 2014,

<https://www.rfc-

Sahni & Tripathi

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9482

CoAP Transfer for CMP

November 2023

[RFC7641]

[RFC7959]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8615]

[RFC9112]

[RFC9147]

[RFC9480]

[RFC9483]

,

Hartke, K. "Observing Resources in the Constrained Application Protocol
(CoAP)" RFC 7641 DOI 10.17487/RFC7641
editor.org/info/rfc7641>

, September 2015,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

 and

Bormann, C.
,
Application Protocol (CoAP)" RFC 7959 DOI 10.17487/RFC7959
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7959>

Z. Shelby, Ed. "Block-Wise Transfers in the Constrained

,

,

.

, August 2016,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Nottingham, M. "Well-Known Uniform Resource Identifiers (URIs)" RFC 8615
DOI 10.17487/RFC8615
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8615>

, May 2019,

,

,

,

,

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
9112 DOI 10.17487/RFC9112
,
rfc9112>

.

, June 2022,

, and

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP/1.1" STD 99 RFC

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

,

Rescorla, E. Tschofenig, H.
Security (DTLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 9147 DOI 10.17487/RFC9147
2022,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9147>

N. Modadugu "The Datagram Transport Layer

, April

, and

,
.

,

,

Brockhaus, H. von Oheimb, D.
,
(CMP) Updates" RFC 9480 DOI 10.17487/RFC9480
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9480>

, and

,

,

.

J. Gray "Certificate Management Protocol

, November 2023,

<https://

Brockhaus, H. von Oheimb, D.
,
Management Protocol (CMP) Profile" RFC 9483 DOI 10.17487/RFC9483
November 2023,

S. Fries "Lightweight Certificate
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9483>

, and

,

,

.

,

6.2.  Informative References

[RFC5280]

[RFC8323]

[RFC8446]

,

,

Cooper, D. Santesson, S. Farrell, S. Boeyen, S. Housley, R.
"Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certificate and Certificate Revocation
List (CRL) Profile" RFC 5280 DOI 10.17487/RFC5280
editor.org/info/rfc5280>

, May 2008,

<https://www.rfc-

W. Polk

, and

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

,

,

Bormann, C. Lemay, S. Tschofenig, H. Hartke, K. Silverajan, B.
,
Ed. "CoAP (Constrained Application Protocol) over TCP, TLS, and WebSockets"
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/
RFC 8323 DOI 10.17487/RFC8323
info/rfc8323>

, February 2018,

B. Raymor,
,

, and

.

,

,

Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
,
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>

, August 2018,

,

.

Sahni & Tripathi

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9482

CoAP Transfer for CMP

November 2023

Acknowledgements

The authors would like to thank
Kretschmer
feedback.

Hendrik Brockhaus David von Oheimb
,
 for their guidance in writing the content of this document and providing valuable

Andreas

, and

Authors' Addresses

editor
)

Mohit Sahni (
Palo Alto Networks
3000 Tannery Way
Santa Clara CA 95054
,
United States of America
Email:

 msahni@paloaltonetworks.com

editor
)

Saurabh Tripathi (
Palo Alto Networks
3000 Tannery Way
Santa Clara CA 95054
,
United States of America
Email:

 stripathi@paloaltonetworks.com

Sahni & Tripathi

Standards Track

Page 9

