Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9467
8967
Standards Track
January 2024
2070-1721
J. Chroboczek
IRIF, University of Paris-Cité

T. Høiland-Jørgensen
Red Hat

RFC 9467
Relaxed Packet Counter Verification for Babel MAC
Authentication

Abstract

This document relaxes the packet verification rules defined in "MAC Authentication for the Babel
Routing Protocol" (RFC 8967) in order to make the protocol more robust in the presence of packet
reordering. This document updates RFC 8967.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9467
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Chroboczek & Høiland-Jørgensen

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9467

Babel MAC Relaxed Verification

January 2024

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Specification of Requirements

3.  Relaxing PC Verification

3.1.  Multiple Highest PC Values

3.1.1.  Generalisations

3.2.  Window-Based Verification

3.3.  Combining the Two Techniques

4.  Security Considerations

5.  IANA Considerations

6.  Normative References

7.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

2

3

3

3

5

5

6

6

7

7

7

7

8

The design of the Babel MAC authentication mechanism
reordering is an exceptional occurrence, and the protocol drops any packets that arrive out-of-
order. The assumption that packets are not routinely reordered is generally correct on wired
links, but turns out to be incorrect on some kinds of wireless links.

 assumes that packet

[RFC8967]

[IEEE80211]

 defines a number of power-saving modes that

In particular, IEEE 802.11 (Wi-Fi)
allow stations (mobile nodes) to switch their radio off for extended periods of time, ranging in
the hundreds of milliseconds. The access point (network switch) buffers all multicast packets and
only sends them out after the power-saving interval ends. The result is that multicast packets are
delayed by up to a few hundred milliseconds with respect to unicast packets, which, under some
traffic patterns, causes the Packet Counter (PC) verification procedure in RFC 8967 to
systematically fail for multicast packets.

This document defines two distinct ways to relax the PC validation:

•

using two separate receiver-side states, one for unicast and one for multicast packets
(Section 3.1), which allows arbitrary reordering between unicast and multicast packets, and

Chroboczek & Høiland-Jørgensen

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9467

Babel MAC Relaxed Verification

January 2024

•

using a window of previously received PC values (Section 3.2), which allows a bounded
amount of reordering between arbitrary packets.

We assume that reordering between arbitrary packets only happens occasionally, and, since
Babel is designed to gracefully deal with occasional packet loss, usage of the former mechanism
is
simultaneously (Section 3.3).

, while usage of the latter is

. The two mechanisms

RECOMMENDED

OPTIONAL

 be used

MAY

This document updates RFC 8967 by relaxing the packet verification rules defined therein. It does
not change the security properties of the protocol.

2.  Specification of Requirements

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Relaxing PC Verification

The Babel MAC authentication mechanism prevents replay by decorating every sent packet with
a strictly increasing value, the Packet Counter (PC). Notwithstanding the name, the PC does not
actually count packets: a sender is permitted to increment the PC by more than one between two
successively transmitted packets.

A receiver maintains the highest PC received from each neighbour. When a new packet is
received, the receiver compares the PC contained in the packet with the highest received PC:

•

if the new value is smaller or equal, then the packet is discarded;

•

otherwise, the packet is accepted, and the highest PC value for that neighbour is updated.

Note that there does not exist a one-to-one correspondence between sender states and receiver
states: multiple receiver states track a single sender state. The receiver states corresponding to a
single sender state are not necessarily identical, since only a subset of receiver states are updated
when a packet is sent to a unicast address or when a multicast packet is received by a subset of
the receivers.

3.1.  Multiple Highest PC Values

Instead of maintaining a single highest PC value for each neighbour, an implementation of the
procedure described in this section uses two values: the highest multicast value PCm and the
highest non-multicast (unicast) value PCu. More precisely, the (Index, PC) pair contained in the
neighbour table (

) is replaced by a triple (Index, PCm, PCu), where:

Section 3.2 of [RFC8967]

•

Index is an arbitrary string of 0 to 32 octets, and

•

PCm and PCu are 32-bit (4-octet) integers.

Chroboczek & Høiland-Jørgensen

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9467

Babel MAC Relaxed Verification

January 2024

When a Challenge Reply is successful, both highest PC values are updated to the value contained
in the PC TLV from the packet containing the successful challenge. More precisely, the last
sentence of the fourth bullet point of

Section 4.3 of [RFC8967]

 is replaced as follows:

OLD:

If the packet contains a successful Challenge Reply, then the PC and Index contained in
the PC TLV
(which already exists in this case), and the packet is accepted.

 be stored in the neighbour table entry corresponding to the sender

MUST

NEW:

MUST

If the packet contains a successful Challenge Reply, then the Index contained in the PC
TLV
sender (which already exists in this case), the PC contained in the TLV
both the PCm and PCu fields of the neighbour table entry, and the packet is accepted.

 be stored in the Index field of the neighbour table entry corresponding to the
 be stored in

MUST

When a packet that does not contain a successful Challenge Reply is received, the PC value that it
contains is compared to either the PCu or the PCm field of the corresponding neighbour entry,
depending on whether or not the packet was sent to a multicast address. If the comparison is
successful, then the same value (PCm or PCu) is updated. More precisely, the last bullet point of
Section 4.3 of [RFC8967]

 is replaced as follows:

OLD:

At this stage, the packet contains no successful Challenge Reply, and the Index contained
in the PC TLV is equal to the Index in the neighbour table entry corresponding to the
sender. The receiver compares the received PC with the PC contained in the neighbour
table; if the received PC is smaller or equal than the PC contained in the neighbour table,
the packet
 be dropped and processing stops (no challenge is sent in this case, since
the mismatch might be caused by harmless packet reordering on the link). Otherwise,
the PC contained in the neighbour table entry is set to the received PC, and the packet is
accepted.

MUST

NEW:

At this stage, the packet contains no successful Challenge Reply and the Index contained
in the PC TLV is equal to the Index in the neighbour table entry corresponding to the
sender. The receiver compares the received PC with either the PCm field (if the packet
was sent to a multicast IP address) or the PCu field (otherwise) in the neighbour table. If
the received PC is smaller than or equal to the value contained in the neighbour table,

Chroboczek & Høiland-Jørgensen

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9467

Babel MAC Relaxed Verification

January 2024

MUST

 be dropped and processing stops. Note that no challenge is sent in this

the packet
case, since the mismatch might be caused by harmless packet reordering on the link.
Otherwise, the PCm (if the packet was sent to a multicast address) or the PCu (otherwise)
field contained in the neighbour table entry is set to the received PC, and the packet is
accepted.

3.1.1.  Generalisations

Modern networking hardware tends to maintain more than just two queues, and it might be
tempting to generalise the approach taken to more than just the two last PC values. For example,
one might be tempted to use distinct last PC values for packets received with different values of
the Type of Service (TOS) field, or with different IEEE 802.11 access categories. However,
choosing a highest PC field by consulting a value that is not protected by the Message
Authentication Code (MAC) (
effect, this means that only the destination address and port number as well as the data stored in
the packet body may be used for choosing the highest PC value, since these are the only fields
that are protected by the MAC (in addition to the source address and port number, which are
already used when choosing the neighbour table entry and therefore provide no additional
information). Since Babel implementations do not usually send packets with differing TOS values
or IEEE 802.11 access categories, this is unlikely to be an issue in practice.

) would no longer protect against replay. In

Section 4.1 of [RFC8967]

The following example shows why it would be unsafe to select the highest PC depending on the
TOS field. Suppose that a node B were to maintain distinct highest PC values for different values
T1 and T2 of the TOS field, and that, initially, all of the highest PC fields at B have value 42.
Suppose now that a node A sends a packet P1 with TOS equal to T1 and PC equal to 43; when B
receives the packet, it sets the highest PC value associated with TOS T1 to 43. If an attacker were
now to send an exact copy of P1 but with TOS equal to T2, B would consult the highest PC value
associated with T2, which is still equal to 42, and accept the replayed packet.

3.2.  Window-Based Verification

Window-based verification is similar to what is described in
using window-based verification, in addition to retaining within its neighbour table the highest
PC value PCh seen from every neighbour, an implementation maintains a fixed-size window of
booleans corresponding to PC values directly below PCh. More precisely, the (Index, PC) pair
Section 3.2 of [RFC8967]
contained in the neighbour table (

Section 3.4.3 of [RFC4303]

) is replaced by:

. When

•

a triple (Index, PCh, Window), where Index is an arbitrary string of 0 to 32 octets, PCh is a 32-
bit (4-octet) integer, and Window is a vector of booleans of size S (the default value S=128 is
RECOMMENDED

).

The window is a vector of S boolean values numbered from 0 (the "left edge" of the window) up
to S-1 (the "right edge"); the boolean associated with the index i indicates whether a packet with a
PC value of (PCh - (S-1) + i) has been seen before. Shifting the window to the left by an integer

Chroboczek & Høiland-Jørgensen

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9467

Babel MAC Relaxed Verification

January 2024

amount k is defined as moving all values so that the value previously at index n is now at index
(n - k); k values are discarded at the left edge, and k new unset values are inserted at the right
edge.

Whenever a packet is received, the receiver computes its index i = (PC - PCh + S - 1). It then
proceeds as follows:

1.

If the index i is negative, the packet is considered too old, and it

MUST

 be discarded.

2.

If the index i is non-negative and strictly less than the window size S, the window value at
the index is checked. If this value is already set, the received PC has been seen before and the
packet
 be discarded. Otherwise, the corresponding window value is marked as set, and
the packet is accepted.

MUST

3.

If the index i is larger or equal to the window size (i.e., PC is strictly larger than PCh), the
window
PCh), and the highest PC value PCh
the window (the value with index S - 1)

 be shifted to the left by (i - S + 1) values (or, equivalently, by the difference PC -

 be set to the received PC. The value at the right of

 be set, and the packet is accepted.

MUST

MUST

MUST

When receiving a successful Challenge Reply, the remembered highest PC value PCh
to the value received in the Challenge Reply, and all of the values in the window
except the value at index S - 1, which
MUST

 be set.

MUST

MUST

 be set

 be reset

3.3.  Combining the Two Techniques

The two techniques described above serve complementary purposes:

•

splitting the state allows multicast packets to be reordered with respect to unicast ones by an
arbitrary number of PC values, while

•

the window-based technique allows arbitrary packets to be reordered but only by a bounded
number of PC values.

Thus, they can profitably be combined.

An implementation that uses both techniques
table, two distinct windows, one for multicast and one for unicast packets. When a successful
Challenge Reply is received, both windows
MUST
Challenge Reply is received, if the packet's destination address is a multicast address, the
multicast window
Otherwise, the unicast window

 be consulted and possibly updated, as described in Section 3.2.
 be consulted and possibly updated.

 maintain, for every entry of the neighbour

 be reset. When a packet that does not contain a

MUST

MUST

MUST

4.  Security Considerations

The procedures described in this document do not change the security properties described in
Section 1.2 of [RFC8967]
. In particular, the choice between the multicast and the unicast packet
counter is made by examining a packet's destination IP address, which is included in the pseudo-
header and therefore participates in MAC computation. Hence, an attacker cannot change the
destination address without invalidating the MAC, and therefore cannot replay a unicast packet
as a multicast one or vice versa.

Chroboczek & Høiland-Jørgensen

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9467

Babel MAC Relaxed Verification

January 2024

While these procedures do slightly increase the amount of per-neighbour state maintained by
each node, this increase is marginal (between 4 and 36 octets per neighbour, depending on
implementation choices), and should not significantly impact the ability of nodes to survive
denial-of-service attacks.

5.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

6.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8967]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Dô, C. Kolodziejak, W.
, and
Routing Protocol" RFC 8967 DOI 10.17487/RFC8967
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8967>

J. Chroboczek "MAC Authentication for the Babel
,

, January 2021,

<https://

,

,

.

7.  Informative References

[IEEE80211]

[RFC4303]

,

IEEE "IEEE Standard for Information Technology--Telecommunications and
Information Exchange between Systems - Local and Metropolitan Area
Networks--Specific requirements - Part 11: Wireless LAN Medium Access Control
(MAC) and Physical Layer (PHY) Specifications" DOI 10.1109/IEEESTD.
2021.9363693 IEEE Std 802.11-2020
document/9363693>

<https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/

, February 2021,

,

,

.

Kent, S. "IP Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP)" RFC 4303 DOI 10.17487/
,
RFC4303

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4303>

, December 2005,

,

,

.

Acknowledgments

The authors are greatly indebted to
document aims to solve and first suggested the solution described in Section 3.1.

Daniel Gröber

, who first identified the problem that this

Chroboczek & Høiland-Jørgensen

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9467

Babel MAC Relaxed Verification

January 2024

Authors' Addresses

Juliusz Chroboczek
IRIF, University of Paris-Cité
Case 7014
75205 Paris CEDEX 13
France
Email:

 jch@irif.fr

Toke Høiland-Jørgensen
Red Hat
Email:

 toke@toke.dk

Chroboczek & Høiland-Jørgensen

Standards Track

Page 8

