Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9324
8481
Standards Track
December 2022
2070-1721
R. Bush
IIJ Research Lab & Arrcus, Inc.

K. Patel
Arrcus, Inc.

Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

M. Tinka
SEACOM

P. Smith
PFS Internet Development Pty Ltd

RFC 9324
Policy Based on the Resource Public Key
Infrastructure (RPKI) without Route Refresh

Abstract

A BGP speaker performing policy based on the Resource Public Key Infrastructure (RPKI) should
not issue route refresh to its neighbors because it has received new RPKI data. This document
updates RFC 8481 by describing how to avoid doing so by either keeping a full Adj-RIB-In or
saving paths dropped due to ROV (Route Origin Validation) so they may be reevaluated with
respect to new RPKI data.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9324
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Bush, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9324

RPKI-Based Policy without Route Refresh

December 2022

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

2.  Related Work

3.  ROV Experience

4.  Keeping Partial Adj-RIB-In Data

5.  Operational Recommendations

6.  Security Considerations

7.  IANA Considerations

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

8.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

[RFC6811] [RFC8481]

Section 1.1 of [RFC4271]

 and similar RPKI-based policy, if such a BGP speaker receives new

 to not
). When doing RPKI-based Route Origin Validation

Memory constraints in early BGP speakers caused classic BGP implementations
keep a full Adj-RIB-In (
(ROV)
RPKI data, it might not have kept paths previously marked as Invalid, etc. Such an
implementation must then request a route refresh
recover the paths that might be covered by these new RPKI data. This will be perceived as rude
by those neighbors as it passes a serious resource burden on to them. This document
recommends implementations keep and mark paths affected by RPKI-based policy, so route
refresh is no longer needed.

 from its neighbors to

[RFC2918] [RFC7313]

[RFC4271]

Bush, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9324

RPKI-Based Policy without Route Refresh

December 2022

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Related Work

It is assumed that the reader understands BGP
[RFC6480]
, Route Origin Authorizations (ROAs)
(RPKI) to Router Protocol
Origin Validation Clarifications

[RFC8481]
.

[RPKI-ROUTER-PROT-v2]

[RFC4271]
[RFC6482]

[RFC7313]
, route refresh
, the Resource Public Key Infrastructure

, the RPKI

, RPKI-Based Prefix Validation

[RFC6811]

, and

Note that the term "RPKI-based Route Origin Validation" in this document means the same as the
term "Prefix Origin Validation" used in

[RFC6811]
.

3.  ROV Experience

As Route Origin Validation dropping Invalids has deployed, some BGP speaker implementations
have been found that, when receiving new RPKI data (Validated ROA Payloads (VRPs)
ROUTER-PROT-v2]
reevaluate the received paths against the new data.

 to all sending BGP peers so that they can

), issue a BGP route refresh

[RFC7313]

[RPKI-

In actual deployment, this has been found to be very destructive, transferring a serious resource
burden to the unsuspecting peers. In reaction, RPKI-based Route Origin Validation (ROV) has
been turned off. There have been actual de-peerings.

As RPKI registration and ROA creation have steadily increased, this problem has increased, not
just proportionally, but on the order of the in-degree of ROV implementing BGP speakers. As
Autonomous System Provider Authorization (ASPA)
will increase.

 becomes used, the problem

[AS_PATH-VER]

Other mechanisms, such as automated policy provisioning, which have flux rates similar to ROV
(i.e., on the order of minutes), could very well cause similar problems.

Therefore, this document updates

[RFC8481]

 by describing how to avoid this problem.

4.  Keeping Partial Adj-RIB-In Data

If new RPKI data arrive that cause operator policy to invalidate the best route and the BGP
speaker did not keep the dropped routes, then the BGP speaker would issue a route refresh,
which this feature aims to prevent.

Bush, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9324

RPKI-Based Policy without Route Refresh

December 2022

A route that is dropped by operator policy due to ROV is, by nature, considered ineligible to
compete for the best route and

 be kept in the Adj-RIB-In for potential future evaluation.

MUST

Ameliorating the route refresh problem by keeping a full Adj-RIB-In can be a problem for
resource-constrained BGP speakers. In reality, only some data need be retained. If an
implementation chooses not to retain the full Adj-RIB-In, it
due to ROV for potential future evaluation.

MUST

 retain at least routes dropped

 be a
As storing these routes could cause problems in resource-constrained devices, there
global operation, CLI, YANG, or other mechanism that allows the operator to enable this feature
and store the dropped routes. Such an operator control
cause inconsistent behavior.

 be per peer, as this could

MUST NOT

MUST

As a side note, policy that may drop routes due to RPKI-based checks such as ROV (and ASPA,
BGPsec
before non-RPKI policies are run, as the latter may change path attributes.

 be run and the dropped routes saved per this section,

, etc., in the future)

[RFC8205]

MUST

5.  Operational Recommendations

Operators deploying ROV and/or other RPKI-based policies should ensure that the BGP speaker
implementation is not causing route refresh requests to neighbors.

MUST

BGP speakers
Conformance to this behavior is an additional, mandatory capability for BGP speakers
performing ROV.

 either keep the full Adj-RIB-In or implement the specification in Section 4.

If the BGP speaker does not implement these recommendations, the operator should enable the
vendor's control to keep the full Adj-RIB-In, sometimes referred to as "soft reconfiguration
inbound". The operator should then measure to ensure that there are no unnecessary route
refresh requests sent to neighbors.

If the BGP speaker's equipment has insufficient resources to support either of the two proposed
options (keeping a full AdjRibIn or at least the dropped routes), the equipment
replaced with capable equipment or

 be used for ROV.

SHOULD NOT

SHOULD

 either be

The configuration setting in Section 4 should only be used in very well-known and controlled
circumstances where the scaling issues are well understood and anticipated.

Operators using the specification in Section 4 should be aware that a misconfigured neighbor
might erroneously send a massive number of paths, thus consuming a lot of memory. Hence, pre-
[MAXPREFIX-INBOUND]
policy filtering such as described in
exposure.

 could be used to reduce this

If route refresh has been issued toward more than one peer, the order of receipt of the refresh
data can cause churn in both best route selection and outbound signaling.

Bush, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9324

RPKI-Based Policy without Route Refresh

December 2022

Internet Exchange Points (IXPs) that provide route servers
members could be causing an undue route refresh load on the route servers and take
appropriate administrative and/or technical measures. IXPs using BGP speakers as route servers
should ensure that they are not generating excessive route refresh requests.

 should be aware that some

[RFC7947]

6.  Security Considerations

This document describes a denial of service that Route Origin Validation or other RPKI policy
may place on a BGP neighbor and describes how it may be ameliorated.

Otherwise, this document adds no additional security considerations to those already described
by the referenced documents.

7.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC2918]

[RFC4271]

[RFC6811]

[RFC7313]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8481]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Chen, E. "Route Refresh Capability for BGP-4" RFC 2918 DOI 10.17487/RFC2918
,
September 2000,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2918>

,

,

.

,

,

Rekhter, Y., Ed. Li, T., Ed.
(BGP-4)" RFC 4271 DOI 10.17487/RFC4271
editor.org/info/rfc4271>

, and

,

,

.

,
, January 2006,

S. Hares, Ed. "A Border Gateway Protocol 4

<https://www.rfc-

,

Mohapatra, P. Scudder, J. Ward, D. Bush, R.
Validation" RFC 6811 DOI 10.17487/RFC6811
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc6811>

.

,

,

R. Austein "BGP Prefix Origin

,
, and
<https://www.rfc-
, January 2013,

Patel, K. Chen, E.
,
Capability for BGP-4" RFC 7313 DOI 10.17487/RFC7313
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7313>

, and
,

.

,

B. Venkatachalapathy "Enhanced Route Refresh

, July 2014,

<https://

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Bush, R. "Clarifications to BGP Origin Validation Based on Resource Public Key
Infrastructure (RPKI)" RFC 8481 DOI 10.17487/RFC8481
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8481>

, September 2018,

,

,

.

Bush, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9324

RPKI-Based Policy without Route Refresh

December 2022

8.2.  Informative References

[AS_PATH-VER]

,

,

Azimov, A. Bogomazov, E. Bush, R. Patel, K. Snijders, J.

,
,
AS_PATH Verification Based on Resource Public Key Infrastructure (RPKI)
Autonomous System Provider Authorization (ASPA) Objects" Work in Progress
,
Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-sidrops-aspa-verification-11
<https://
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-sidrops-aspa-verification-11>

,
, 24 October 2022,

K. Sriram "BGP

, and

,

.

[MAXPREFIX-INBOUND]

J. Snijders "BGP Maximum Prefix
Aelmans, M. Stucchi, M.
, and
,
Limits Inbound" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-sas-idr-maxprefix-
,
inbound-04
maxprefix-inbound-04>

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-sas-idr-

, 19 January 2022,

.

,

,

[RFC6480]

[RFC6482]

[RFC7947]

[RFC8205]

 and

Lepinski, M.
RFC 6480 DOI 10.17487/RFC6480
info/rfc6480>

.

,

S. Kent "An Infrastructure to Support Secure Internet Routing"
,

,

, February 2012,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

,

Lepinski, M. Kent, S.
(ROAs)" RFC 6482 DOI 10.17487/RFC6482
editor.org/info/rfc6482>

, and

,

,

.

D. Kong "A Profile for Route Origin Authorizations

,

, February 2012,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Jasinska, E. Hilliard, N. Raszuk, R.
,
Route Server" RFC 7947 DOI 10.17487/RFC7947
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7947>

, and

,

.

N. Bakker "Internet Exchange BGP
<https://
, September 2016,

,

 and

Lepinski, M., Ed.
DOI 10.17487/RFC8205
rfc8205>

.

K. Sriram, Ed. "BGPsec Protocol Specification" RFC 8205

,

,

,

, September 2017,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

[RPKI-ROUTER-PROT-v2]

Bush, R.

 and

R. Austein "The Resource Public Key Infrastructure

,

(RPKI) to Router Protocol, Version 2" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-
sidrops-8210bis-10
sidrops-8210bis-10>

, 16 June 2022,

,

,

.

Acknowledgements

The authors wish to thank
Scudder Matthias Waehlisch Nick Hilliard Saku Ytti

,

,

,

,

,
, and

,
Ties de Kock
.

Alvaro Retana Ben Maddison Derek Yeung John Heasley John

,

Bush, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9324

RPKI-Based Policy without Route Refresh

December 2022

Authors' Addresses

Randy Bush
IIJ Research Lab & Arrcus, Inc.
1856 SW Edgewood Dr
Portland OR 97210
,
United States of America
Email:

 randy@psg.com

Keyur Patel
Arrcus, Inc.
2077 Gateway Place, Suite #400
San Jose CA 95119
,
United States of America
Email:

 keyur@arrcus.com

Philip Smith
PFS Internet Development Pty Ltd
PO Box 1908
Milton QLD 4064
Australia
Email:

 pfsinoz@gmail.com

Mark Tinka
SEACOM
Building 7, Design Quarter District
Leslie Avenue, Magaliessig
Fourways, Gauteng
2196
South Africa
Email:

 mark@tinka.africa

Bush, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

