Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9254
Standards Track
July 2022
2070-1721
M. Veillette,
Trilliant Networks Inc.

 Ed.

I. Petrov,
Google Switzerland GmbH

 Ed.

A. Pelov
Acklio

C. Bormann
Universität Bremen TZI

M. Richardson
Sandelman Software Works

RFC 9254
Encoding of Data Modeled with YANG in the Concise
Binary Object Representation (CBOR)

Abstract

YANG (RFC 7950) is a data modeling language used to model conﬁguration data, state data,
parameters and results of Remote Procedure Call (RPC) operations or actions, and notiﬁcations.

This document deﬁnes encoding rules for YANG in the Concise Binary Object Representation
(CBOR) (RFC 8949).

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

.
https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9254

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Veillette, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9254

CBOR Encoding of Data Modeled with YANG

July 2022

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology and Notation

3.  Properties of the CBOR Encoding

3.1.  CBOR Diagnostic Notation

3.2.  YANG Schema Item iDentiﬁer

3.3.  Name

4.  Encoding of Representation Nodes

4.1.  The 'leaf'

4.1.1.  Using SIDs in Keys

4.1.2.  Using Names in Keys

4.2.  The 'container' and Other Nodes from the Data Tree

4.2.1.  Using SIDs in Keys

4.2.2.  Using Names in Keys

4.3.  The 'leaf-list'

4.3.1.  Using SIDs in Keys

4.3.2.  Using Names in Keys

4.4.  The 'list' and the 'list' Entries

4.4.1.  Using SIDs in Keys

4.4.2.  Using Names in Keys

4.5.  The 'anydata'

4.5.1.  Using SIDs in Keys

4.5.2.  Using Names in Keys

4.6.  The 'anyxml'

4.6.1.  Using SIDs in Keys

4.6.2.  Using Names in Keys

Veillette, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9254

CBOR Encoding of Data Modeled with YANG

July 2022

5.  Encoding of the 'yang-data' Extension

5.1.  Using SIDs in Keys

5.2.  Using Names in Keys

6.  Representing YANG Data Types in CBOR

6.1.  The Unsigned Integer Types

6.2.  The Integer Types

6.3.  The 'decimal64' Type

6.4.  The 'string' Type

6.5.  The 'boolean' Type

6.6.  The 'enumeration' Type

6.7.  The 'bits' Type

6.8.  The 'binary' Type

6.9.  The 'leafref' Type

6.10. The 'identityref' Type

6.10.1.  SIDs as 'identityref'

6.10.2.  Name as 'identityref'

6.11. The 'empty' Type

6.12. The 'union' Type

6.13. The 'instance-identiﬁer' Type

6.13.1.  SIDs as 'instance-identiﬁer'

6.13.2.  Names as 'instance-identiﬁer'

7.  Content-Types

8.  Security Considerations

9.  IANA Considerations

9.1.  Media Types Registry

9.2.  CoAP Content-Formats Registry

9.3.  CBOR Tags Registry

10. References

10.1.  Normative References

10.2.  Informative References

Veillette, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9254

CBOR Encoding of Data Modeled with YANG

July 2022

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

The speciﬁcation of the YANG 1.1 data modeling language
data instances, i.e., contents of conﬁguration datastores, state data, RPC inputs and outputs,
action inputs and outputs, and event notiﬁcations.

[RFC7950]

 deﬁnes an XML encoding for

An additional set of encoding rules has been deﬁned in
Notation (JSON) Data Interchange Format"

[RFC8259]

.

[RFC7951]

 based on "The JavaScript Object

The aim of this document is to deﬁne a set of encoding rules for the Concise Binary Object
Representation (CBOR)
, collectively called "YANG-CBOR". The resulting encoding is
more compact compared to XML and JSON and more suitable for constrained nodes and/or
constrained networks, as deﬁned by

[RFC8949]

[RFC7228]

.

2.  Terminology and Notation

", "
The key words "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
"
", "
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

SID values (and the SID deltas computed from them) shown in the examples are example values;
these examples do not allocate the SIDs shown for speciﬁc items in the modules.

The following terms are deﬁned in

[RFC7950]

:

•

action

•

anydata

•

anyxml

•

data node

•

data tree

•

datastore

•

feature

•

identity

•

module

•

notiﬁcation

•

RPC

•

schema node

Veillette, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9254

CBOR Encoding of Data Modeled with YANG

July 2022

•

submodule

The following term is deﬁned in

[RFC8040]

:

•

yang-data extension

The following term is deﬁned in

[RFC8791]

:

•

YANG data structure

This speciﬁcation also makes use of the following terminology:

YANG Schema Item iDentiﬁer (or "YANG SID" or simply "SID"):

63-bit unsigned integer used to identify diﬀerent YANG items.

delta:

Diﬀerence between the current YANG SID and a reference YANG SID. A reference YANG SID is
deﬁned for each context for which deltas are used.

absolute SID:

A YANG SID that is not encoded as a delta. This is usually called out explicitly only in positions
where normally a delta would be found.

representation tree:

A YANG data tree, possibly enclosed by a representation of a schema node, such as a YANG
data structure, a notiﬁcation, an RPC, or an action.

representation node:

A node in a representation tree, i.e., a data tree node, or a representation of a schema node,
such as a YANG data structure, a notiﬁcation, an RPC, or an action.

item:

A schema node, an identity, a module, or a feature deﬁned using the YANG modeling language.

list entry:

The data associated with a single entry of a list (see

Section 7.8 of [RFC7950]

).

container-like instance:

An instance of a container, a YANG data structure, notiﬁcation contents, RPC input, RPC
output, action input, or action output (Section 4.2); a list entry in a list (Section 4.4); or an
anydata node (Section 4.5).

parent (of a representation node):

The schema node of the closest enclosing representation node in which a given representation
node is deﬁned.

3.  Properties of the CBOR Encoding

This document deﬁnes CBOR encoding rules for YANG data trees and their subtrees.

Veillette, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9254

CBOR Encoding of Data Modeled with YANG

July 2022

A YANG data tree can be enclosed by a representation of a schema node, such as a YANG data
structure, a notiﬁcation, an RPC, or an action; this is called a representation tree. The data tree
nodes and the enclosing schema node representation, if any, are collectively called the
representation nodes.

A representation node, such as a container, list entry, YANG data structure, notiﬁcation, RPC
input, RPC output, action input, action output, or anydata node, is serialized using a CBOR map in
which each schema node deﬁned within is encoded using a key and a value. This speciﬁcation
supports two types of CBOR keys: YANG Schema Item iDentiﬁer (YANG SID), as deﬁned in Section
3.2, and names, as deﬁned in Section 3.3. Each of these key types is encoded using a speciﬁc CBOR
type that allows their interpretation during the deserialization process. Protocols or mechanisms
implementing this speciﬁcation can mandate the use of a speciﬁc key type or allow the generator
to choose freely per key.

In order to minimize the size of the encoded data, the mapping avoids any unnecessary meta-
Section 2 of
information beyond that directly provided by the CBOR basic generic data model (
[RFC8949]
). For instance, CBOR tags are used solely in the case of an absolute SID, anyxml data
nodes, or the union datatype to explicitly distinguish the use of diﬀerent YANG datatypes encoded
using the same CBOR major type.

Unless speciﬁed otherwise by the protocol or mechanism implementing this speciﬁcation, the
indeﬁnite length encoding, as deﬁned in
CBOR decoders employed with YANG-CBOR. (This enables an implementation to begin emitting
an array or map before the number of entries in that structure is known, possibly also avoiding
excessive locking or race conditions. On the other hand, it deprives the receiver of the encoded
data from advance announcement about some size information, so a generator should choose
indeﬁnite length encoding only when these beneﬁts do accrue.)

Section 3.2 of [RFC8949] SHALL

 be supported by the

,

Data nodes implemented using a CBOR array, map, byte string, or text string can be instantiated
but empty. In this case, they are encoded with a length of zero.

When representation nodes are serialized using the rules deﬁned by this speciﬁcation as part of
an application payload, the payload
 include information that would allow each node to
be identiﬁed in a stateless way, for instance, the SID number associated with the node, the SID
delta from another SID in the application payload, the namespace-qualiﬁed name, or the
instance-identiﬁer.

SHOULD

Examples in Section 4 include a root CBOR map with a single entry having a key set to either a
namespace-qualiﬁed name or a SID. This root CBOR map is provided only as a typical usage
example and is not part of the present encoding rules. Only the value within this CBOR map is
compulsory.

Veillette, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9254

CBOR Encoding of Data Modeled with YANG

July 2022

3.1.  CBOR Diagnostic Notation

Within this document, CBOR binary contents are represented using an equivalent textual form
called CBOR diagnostic notation, as deﬁned in
strictly for documentation purposes and is never used in the data serialization. Table 1 below
provides a summary of this notation.

Section 8 of [RFC8949]

. This notation is used

CBOR
Content

Unsigned
integer

Negative
integer

Byte string

Text string

Array

Map

Boolean

Null

Not
assigned

CBOR
Type

0

1

2

3

4

5

7/20

7/21

7/22

7/23

Diagnostic Notation

Example

CBOR
Encoding

Decimal digits

123

18 7B

Decimal digits preﬁxed by a minus
sign

-123

38 7A

Hexadecimal value enclosed
between single quotes and preﬁxed
by an 'h'

String of Unicode characters
enclosed between double quotes

Comma-separated list of values
within square brackets

h'F15C'

42 F15C

"txt"

63 747874

[ 1, 2 ]

82 01 02

Comma-separated list of key : value
pairs within curly braces

{ 1: 123, 2:
456 }

A2 01187B
021901C8

false

true

null

false

true

null

undeﬁned

undeﬁned

F4

F5

F6

F7

Table 1: CBOR Diagnostic Notation Summary

Note: CBOR binary contents shown in this speciﬁcation are annotated with comments. These
comments are delimited by slashes ("/"), as deﬁned in

Appendix G.6 of [RFC8610]

.

3.2.  YANG Schema Item iDentiﬁer

[RFC7950]
Some of the items deﬁned in YANG
Network Conﬁguration Protocol (NETCONF)
, these identiﬁers
are implemented using text strings. To allow the implementation of data models deﬁned in YANG

 require the use of a unique identiﬁer. In both the
[RFC6241]

 and RESTCONF

[RFC8040]

Veillette, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9254

CBOR Encoding of Data Modeled with YANG

July 2022

in constrained devices and constrained networks, a more compact method to identify YANG
items is required. This compact identiﬁer, called "YANG Schema Item iDentiﬁer", is an unsigned
integer limited to 63 bits of range (i.e., 0..9223372036854775807 or 0..0x7ﬀﬀﬀﬀﬀﬀﬀf). The following
items are identiﬁed using YANG SIDs (often shortened to SIDs):

•

identities

•

data nodes

•

RPCs and associated input(s) and output(s)

•

actions and associated input(s) and output(s)

•

YANG data structures

•

notiﬁcations and associated information

•

YANG modules and features

Note that any structuring of modules into submodules is transparent to YANG-CBOR:
SIDs are not allocated for the names of submodules, and any items within a
submodule are eﬀectively allocated SIDs as part of processing the module that
includes them.

To minimize their size, SIDs used as keys in CBOR maps are encoded using deltas, i.e., signed
(negative or unsigned) integers that are added to the reference SID applying to the map. The
reference SID of an outermost map is zero, unless a diﬀerent reference SID is unambiguously
conferred from the environment in which the outermost map is used. The reference SID of a map
that is most directly embedded in a map entry with a name-based key is zero. For all other maps,
the reference SID is the SID computed for the map entry it is most directly embedded in. (The
embedding may be indirect if an array intervenes, e.g., in a YANG list.) Where absolute SIDs are
desired in map key positions (where a bare integer implies a delta), they need to be identiﬁed as
absolute SID values by using CBOR tag number 47 (as deﬁned in Section 4.2.1).

Thus, conversion from SIDs to deltas and back to SIDs is a stateless process solely based on the
data serialized or deserialized combined with, potentially, an outermost reference SID
unambiguously conferred by the environment.

Mechanisms and processes used to assign SIDs to YANG items and to guarantee their uniqueness
are outside the scope of the present speciﬁcation. If SIDs are to be used, the present speciﬁcation
is used in conjunction with a speciﬁcation deﬁning this management. A related document, i.e.,
[CORE-SID]
managed by the IETF and recommends itself for YANG modules managed by non-IETF entities, as
well. The present speciﬁcation has been designed to allow diﬀerent methods of assignment to be
used within separate domains.

, is intended to serve as the deﬁnitive way to assign SID values for YANG modules

To provide implementations with a way to internally indicate the absence of a SID, the SID value
0 is reserved and will not be allocated; it is not used in interchange.

Veillette, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9254

CBOR Encoding of Data Modeled with YANG

July 2022

3.3.  Name

This speciﬁcation also supports the encoding of YANG item identiﬁers as text strings, similar to
those used by the JSON encoding of data modeled with YANG
used to avoid the management overhead associated with SID allocation. The main drawback is
the signiﬁcant increase in size of the encoded data.

. This approach can be

[RFC7951]

YANG item identiﬁers implemented using names

MUST

 be in one of the following forms:

•

simple -- the identiﬁer of the YANG item (i.e., schema node or identity).

•

namespace-qualiﬁed -- the identiﬁer of the YANG item is preﬁxed with the name of the
module in which this item is deﬁned, separated by the colon character (":").

The name of a module determines the namespace of all YANG items deﬁned in that module. If an
item is deﬁned in a submodule, then the namespace-qualiﬁed name uses the name of the main
module to which the submodule belongs.

ABNF syntax
deﬁned in

Section 14 of [RFC7950]

.

[RFC5234]

 of a name is shown in Figure 1, where the production for "identiﬁer" is

name = [identifier ":"] identifier

Figure 1: ABNF Production for a Simple or Namespace-Qualiﬁed Name

A namespace-qualiﬁed name
also whenever the namespaces of the representation node and its parent node are diﬀerent. In all
other cases, the simple form of the name

 be used for all members of a top-level CBOR map and then

 be used.

MUST

MUST

Deﬁnition example:

module example-foomod {
  container top {
    leaf foo {
      type uint8;
    }
  }
}

module example-barmod {
  import example-foomod {
    prefix "foomod";
  }
  augment "/foomod:top" {
    leaf bar {
      type boolean;
    }
  }
}

Veillette, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9254

CBOR Encoding of Data Modeled with YANG

July 2022

A valid CBOR encoding of the 'top' container is as follows.

CBOR diagnostic notation:

{
  "example-foomod:top": {
    "foo": 54,
    "example-barmod:bar": true
  }
}

Both the 'top' container and the 'bar' leaf deﬁned in a diﬀerent YANG module as its parent
container are encoded as namespace-qualiﬁed names. The 'foo' leaf deﬁned in the same YANG
module as its parent container is encoded as a simple name.

4.  Encoding of Representation Nodes

Representation nodes deﬁned using the YANG modeling language are encoded using CBOR
[RFC8949]
familiar with both YANG

, based on the rules deﬁned in this section. We assume that the reader is already

 and CBOR

[RFC8949]

[RFC7950]

.

4.1.  The 'leaf'

MUST

A 'leaf'
Section 6.

 be encoded accordingly to its datatype using one of the encoding rules speciﬁed in

The following examples show the encoding of a 'hostname' leaf using a SID or a name.

Deﬁnition example adapted from

[RFC6991]

 and

[RFC7317]

:

typedef domain-name {
  type string {
    pattern
      '((([a-zA-Z0-9_]([a-zA-Z0-9\-_]){0,61})?[a-zA-Z0-9]\.)*'
    + '([a-zA-Z0-9_]([a-zA-Z0-9\-_]){0,61})?[a-zA-Z0-9]\.?)'
    + '|\.';
    length "1..253";
  }
}

leaf hostname {
  type inet:domain-name;
}

4.1.1.  Using SIDs in Keys

As with all examples below, the delta in the outermost map assumes a reference YANG SID
(current schema node) of 0.

Veillette, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9254

CBOR Encoding of Data Modeled with YANG

July 2022

CBOR diagnostic notation:

{
  1752 : "myhost.example.com"     / hostname (SID 1752) /
}

CBOR encoding:

A1                                         # map(1)
   19 06D8                                 # unsigned(1752)
   72                                      # text(18)
      6D79686F73742E6578616D706C652E636F6D # "myhost.example.com"

4.1.2.  Using Names in Keys

CBOR diagnostic notation:

{
  "ietf-system:hostname" : "myhost.example.com"
}

CBOR encoding:

A1                                         # map(1)
   74                                      # text(20)
      696574662D73797374656D3A686F73746E616D65
   72                                      # text(18)
      6D79686F73742E6578616D706C652E636F6D

4.2.  The 'container' and Other Nodes from the Data Tree

Instances of containers, YANG data structures, notiﬁcation contents, RPC inputs, RPC outputs,
action inputs, and action outputs
The same encoding is also used for the list entries in a list (Section 4.4) and for anydata nodes
(Section 4.5). Collectively, we speak of these instances as "container-like instances".

 be encoded using a CBOR map data item (major type 5).

MUST

A map consists of pairs of data items, with each pair consisting of a key and a value. Each key
within the CBOR map is set to a schema node identiﬁer, and each value is set to the value of this
representation node according to the instance datatype.

This speciﬁcation supports two types of CBOR map keys: SID, as deﬁned in Section 3.2, and names,
as deﬁned in Section 3.3.

The following examples show the encoding of a 'system-state' container representation instance
using SIDs or names.

Deﬁnition example adapted from

[RFC6991]

 and

[RFC7317]

:

Veillette, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9254

CBOR Encoding of Data Modeled with YANG

July 2022

typedef date-and-time {
  type string {
    pattern '\d{4}-\d{2}-\d{2}T\d{2}:\d{2}:\d{2}(\.\d+)?'
          + '(Z|[\+\-]\d{2}:\d{2})';
  }
}

container system-state {

  container clock {
    leaf current-datetime {
      type date-and-time;
    }

    leaf boot-datetime {
      type date-and-time;
    }
  }
}

4.2.1.  Using SIDs in Keys

In the context of containers and other nodes from the data tree, CBOR map keys within inner
CBOR maps can be encoded using deltas (bare integers) or absolute SIDs (tagged with tag number
47).

Delta values are computed as follows:

•

In the case of a 'container', deltas are equal to the SID of the current representation node
minus the SID of the parent 'container'.

•

In the case of a 'list', deltas are equal to the SID of the current representation node minus the
SID of the parent 'list'.

•

In the case of an 'RPC input' or 'RPC output', deltas are equal to the SID of the current
representation node minus the SID of the 'RPC'.

•

In the case of an 'action input' or 'action output', deltas are equal to the SID of the current
representation node minus the SID of the 'action'.

•

In the case of a 'notiﬁcation content', deltas are equal to the SID of the current representation
node minus the SID of the 'notiﬁcation'.

CBOR diagnostic notation:

{
  1720 : {                              / system-state (SID 1720) /
    1 : {                               / clock  (SID 1721) /
      2 : "2015-10-02T14:47:24Z-05:00", / current-datetime(SID 1723)/
      1 : "2015-09-15T09:12:58Z-05:00"  / boot-datetime (SID 1722) /
    }
  }
}

Veillette, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9254

CBOR Encoding of Data Modeled with YANG

July 2022

CBOR encoding:

A1                                      # map(1)
   19 06B8                              # unsigned(1720)
   A1                                   # map(1)
      01                                # unsigned(1)
      A2                                # map(2)
         02                             # unsigned(2)
         78 1A                          # text(26)
            323031352D31302D30325431343A34373A32345A2D30353A3030
         01                             # unsigned(1)
         78 1A                          # text(26)
            323031352D30392D31355430393A31323A35385A2D30353A3030

Figure 2: System State Clock Encoding

4.2.2.  Using Names in Keys

CBOR map keys implemented using names
(major type 3). A namespace-qualiﬁed name
 be used each time the namespace of a
representation node and its parent diﬀer. In all other cases, the simple form of the name
used. Names and namespaces are deﬁned in

Section 4 of [RFC7951]

 be encoded using a CBOR text string data item

MUST

MUST

MUST

.

 be

The following example shows the encoding of a 'system' container representation node instance
using names.

CBOR diagnostic notation:

{
  "ietf-system:system-state" : {
    "clock" : {
      "current-datetime" : "2015-10-02T14:47:24Z-05:00",
      "boot-datetime" : "2015-09-15T09:12:58Z-05:00"
    }
  }
}

Veillette, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9254

CBOR Encoding of Data Modeled with YANG

July 2022

CBOR encoding:

A1                                      # map(1)
   78 18                                # text(24)
      696574662D73797374656D3A73797374656D2D7374617465
   A1                                   # map(1)
      65                                # text(5)
         636C6F636B                     # "clock"
      A2                                # map(2)
         70                             # text(16)
            63757272656E742D6461746574696D65
         78 1A                          # text(26)
            323031352D31302D30325431343A34373A32345A2D30353A3030
         6D                             # text(13)
            626F6F742D6461746574696D65
         78 1A                          # text(26)
            323031352D30392D31355430393A31323A35385A2D30353A3030

4.3.  The 'leaf-list'

MUST

 be encoded using a CBOR array data item (major type 4). Each entry of this array
 be encoded accordingly to its datatype using one of the encoding rules speciﬁed in Section

A leaf-list
MUST
6.

The following example shows the encoding of the 'search' leaf-list representation node instance
containing two entries: "ietf.org" and "ieee.org".

Deﬁnition example adapted from

[RFC6991]

 and

[RFC7317]

:

typedef domain-name {
  type string {
    pattern
      '((([a-zA-Z0-9_]([a-zA-Z0-9\-_]){0,61})?[a-zA-Z0-9]\.)*'
    + '([a-zA-Z0-9_]([a-zA-Z0-9\-_]){0,61})?[a-zA-Z0-9]\.?)'
    + '|\.';
    length "1..253";
  }
}

leaf-list search {
  type domain-name;
  ordered-by user;
}

Veillette, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9254

CBOR Encoding of Data Modeled with YANG

July 2022

4.3.1.  Using SIDs in Keys

CBOR diagnostic notation:

{
  1746 : [ "ietf.org", "ieee.org" ]     / search (SID 1746) /
}

CBOR encoding:

A1                        # map(1)
   19 06D2                # unsigned(1746)
   82                     # array(2)
      68                  # text(8)
         696574662E6F7267 # "ietf.org"
      68                  # text(8)
         696565652E6F7267 # "ieee.org"

4.3.2.  Using Names in Keys

CBOR diagnostic notation:

{
  "ietf-system:search" : [ "ietf.org", "ieee.org" ]
}

CBOR encoding:

A1                                         # map(1)
   72                                      # text(18)
      696574662D73797374656D3A736561726368 # "ietf-system:search"
   82                                      # array(2)
      68                                   # text(8)
         696574662E6F7267                  # "ietf.org"
      68                                   # text(8)
         696565652E6F7267                  # "ieee.org"

4.4.  The 'list' and the 'list' Entries

A list or a subset of a list
 be encoded using a CBOR array data item (major type 4). Each list
entry within this CBOR array is encoded using a CBOR map data item (major type 5) based on the
encoding rules of a container-like instance, as deﬁned in Section 4.2.

MUST

It is important to note that this encoding rule also applies to a 'list' representation node instance
that has a single entry.

The following examples show the encoding of a 'server' list using SIDs or names.

Veillette, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9254

CBOR Encoding of Data Modeled with YANG

July 2022

Deﬁnition example adapted from

[RFC7317]

:

list server {
  key name;

  leaf name {
    type string;
  }
  choice transport {
    case udp {
      container udp {
        leaf address {
          type host;
          mandatory true;
        }
        leaf port {
          type port-number;
        }
      }
    }
  }
  leaf association-type {
    type enumeration {
      enum server;
      enum peer;
      enum pool;
    }
    default server;
  }
  leaf iburst {
    type boolean;
    default false;
  }
  leaf prefer {
    type boolean;
    default false;
  }
}

4.4.1.  Using SIDs in Keys

The encoding rules of each 'list' entry are deﬁned in Section 4.2.1.

Veillette, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9254

CBOR Encoding of Data Modeled with YANG

July 2022

CBOR diagnostic notation:

{
  1756 : [                      / server (SID 1756) /
    {
      3 : "NRC TIC server",     / name (SID 1759) /
      5 : {                     / udp (SID 1761) /
        1 : "tic.nrc.ca",       / address (SID 1762) /
        2 : 123                 / port (SID 1763) /
      },
      1 : 0,                    / association-type (SID 1757) /
      2 : false,                / iburst (SID 1758) /
      4 : true                  / prefer (SID 1760) /
    },
    {
      3 : "NRC TAC server",     / name (SID 1759) /
      5 : {                     / udp (SID 1761) /
        1 : "tac.nrc.ca"        / address (SID 1762) /
      }
    }
  ]
}

CBOR encoding:

A1                                      # map(1)
   19 06DC                              # unsigned(1756)
   82                                   # array(2)
      A5                                # map(5)
         03                             # unsigned(3)
         6E                             # text(14)
            4E52432054494320736572766572 # "NRC TIC server"
         05                             # unsigned(5)
         A2                             # map(2)
            01                          # unsigned(1)
            6A                          # text(10)
               7469632E6E72632E6361     # "tic.nrc.ca"
            02                          # unsigned(2)
            18 7B                       # unsigned(123)
         01                             # unsigned(1)
         00                             # unsigned(0)
         02                             # unsigned(2)
         F4                             # primitive(20)
         04                             # unsigned(4)
         F5                             # primitive(21)
      A2                                # map(2)
         03                             # unsigned(3)
         6E                             # text(14)
            4E52432054414320736572766572 # "NRC TAC server"
         05                             # unsigned(5)
         A1                             # map(1)
            01                          # unsigned(1)
            6A                          # text(10)
               7461632E6E72632E6361     # "tac.nrc.ca"

Veillette, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9254

CBOR Encoding of Data Modeled with YANG

July 2022

4.4.2.  Using Names in Keys

The encoding rules of each 'list' entry are deﬁned in Section 4.2.2.

CBOR diagnostic notation:

{
  "ietf-system:server" : [
    {
      "name" : "NRC TIC server",
      "udp" : {
        "address" : "tic.nrc.ca",
        "port" : 123
      },
      "association-type" : 0,
      "iburst" : false,
      "prefer" : true
    },
    {
      "name" : "NRC TAC server",
      "udp" : {
        "address" : "tac.nrc.ca"
      }
    }
  ]
}

Veillette, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9254

CBOR Encoding of Data Modeled with YANG

July 2022

CBOR encoding:

A1                                      # map(1)
   72                                   # text(18)
      696574662D73797374656D3A736572766572
   82                                   # array(2)
      A5                                # map(5)
         64                             # text(4)
            6E616D65                    # "name"
         6E                             # text(14)
            4E52432054494320736572766572
         63                             # text(3)
            756470                      # "udp"
         A2                             # map(2)
            67                          # text(7)
               61646472657373           # "address"
            6A                          # text(10)
               7469632E6E72632E6361     # "tic.nrc.ca"
            64                          # text(4)
               706F7274                 # "port"
            18 7B                       # unsigned(123)
         70                             # text(16)
            6173736F63696174696F6E2D74797065
         00                             # unsigned(0)
         66                             # text(6)
            696275727374                # "iburst"
         F4                             # primitive(20)
         66                             # text(6)
            707265666572                # "prefer"
         F5                             # primitive(21)
      A2                                # map(2)
         64                             # text(4)
            6E616D65                    # "name"
         6E                             # text(14)
            4E52432054414320736572766572
         63                             # text(3)
            756470                      # "udp"
         A1                             # map(1)
            67                          # text(7)
               61646472657373           # "address"
            6A                          # text(10)
               7461632E6E72632E6361     # "tac.nrc.ca"

4.5.  The 'anydata'

An anydata node serves as a container for an arbitrary set of representation nodes that
otherwise appear as normal YANG-modeled data. An anydata representation node instance is
encoded using the same rules as a container, i.e., using a CBOR map data item (major type 5)
based on the encoding rules of a container-like instance, as deﬁned in Section 4.2.

The following example shows a possible use of an anydata node. In this example, an anydata
node is used to deﬁne a representation node containing a notiﬁcation event; this representation
node can be part of a YANG list to create an event logger.

Veillette, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9254

CBOR Encoding of Data Modeled with YANG

July 2022

Deﬁnition example:

module event-log {
  ...
  anydata last-event;                // SID 60123
}

This example also assumes the assistance of the following notiﬁcation.

module example-port {
  ...

  notification example-port-fault {  // SID 60200
    leaf port-name {                 // SID 60201
      type string;
    }
    leaf port-fault {                // SID 60202
      type string;
    }
  }
}

4.5.1.  Using SIDs in Keys

CBOR diagnostic notation:

{
  60123 : {                   / last-event (SID 60123) /
    77 : {                    / example-port-fault (SID 60200) /
      1 : "0/4/21",           / port-name (SID 60201) /
      2 : "Open pin 2"        / port-fault (SID 60202) /
    }
  }
}

CBOR encoding:

A1                               # map(1)
   19 EADB                       # unsigned(60123)
   A1                            # map(1)
      18 4D                      # unsigned(77)
      A2                         # map(2)
         01                      # unsigned(1)
         66                      # text(6)
            302F342F3231         # "0/4/21"
         02                      # unsigned(2)
         6A                      # text(10)
            4F70656E2070696E2032 # "Open pin 2"

Veillette, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9254

CBOR Encoding of Data Modeled with YANG

July 2022

In some implementations, it might be simpler to use the absolute SID encoding (tag number 47)
for the anydata root element. CBOR diagnostic notation:

{
  60123 : {                   / last-event (SID 60123) /
    47(60200) : {             / event-port-fault (SID 60200) /
      1 : "0/4/21",           / port-name (SID 60201) /
      2 : "Open pin 2"        / port-fault (SID 60202) /
    }
  }
}

4.5.2.  Using Names in Keys

CBOR diagnostic notation:

{
  "event-log:last-event" : {
    "example-port:example-port-fault" : {
      "port-name" : "0/4/21",
      "port-fault" : "Open pin 2"
    }
  }
}

CBOR encoding:

A1                                      # map(1)
   74                                   # text(20)
      6576656E742D6C6F673A6C6173742D6576656E74
   A1                                   # map(1)
      78 1F                             # text(31)
         6578616D706C652D706F72743A
         6578616D706C652D706F72742D6661756C74
      A2                                # map(2)
         69                             # text(9)
            706F72742D6E616D65          # "port-name"
         66                             # text(6)
            302F342F3231                # "0/4/21"
         6A                             # text(10)
            706F72742D6661756C74        # "port-fault"
         6A                             # text(10)
            4F70656E2070696E2032        # "Open pin 2"

4.6.  The 'anyxml'

An anyxml representation node is used to serialize an arbitrary CBOR content, i.e., its value can
be any CBOR binary object. (The "xml" in the name is a misnomer that only applied to YANG-XML
.) An anyxml value
[RFC7950]
Section 9.3. The tags listed in Section 9.3

 contain CBOR data items tagged with one of the tags listed in

 be supported.

SHALL

MAY

Veillette, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9254

CBOR Encoding of Data Modeled with YANG

July 2022

The following example shows a valid CBOR-encoded anyxml representation node instance
consisting of a CBOR array containing the CBOR simple values 'true', 'null', and 'true'.

Deﬁnition example adapted from

[RFC7951]

:

module bar-module {
  ...
  anyxml bar;      // SID 60000
}

4.6.1.  Using SIDs in Keys

CBOR diagnostic notation:

{
  60000 : [true, null, true]   / bar (SID 60000) /
}

CBOR encoding:

A1         # map(1)
   19 EA60 # unsigned(60000)
   83      # array(3)
      F5   # primitive(21)
      F6   # primitive(22)
      F5   # primitive(21)

4.6.2.  Using Names in Keys

CBOR diagnostic notation:

{
  "bar-module:bar" : [true, null, true]   / bar (SID 60000) /
}

CBOR encoding:

A1                                 # map(1)
   6E                              # text(14)
      6261722D6D6F64756C653A626172 # "bar-module:bar"
   83                              # array(3)
      F5                           # primitive(21)
      F6                           # primitive(22)
      F5                           # primitive(21)

Veillette, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9254

CBOR Encoding of Data Modeled with YANG

July 2022

5.  Encoding of the 'yang-data' Extension

The yang-data extension
intended to be implemented as part of a datastore.

[RFC8040]

 is used to deﬁne data structures in YANG that are not

The yang-data extension will specify a container that
of nodes of data trees, as deﬁned in Section 4.2.

MUST

 be encoded using the encoding rules

Just like YANG containers, the yang-data extension can be encoded using either SIDs or names.

Deﬁnition example adapted from

Appendix A of [CORE-COMI]

:

module ietf-coreconf {
  ...

  import ietf-restconf {
    prefix rc;
  }

  rc:yang-data yang-errors {
    container error {
      leaf error-tag {
        type identityref {
          base error-tag;
        }
      }
      leaf error-app-tag {
        type identityref {
          base error-app-tag;
        }
      }
      leaf error-data-node {
        type instance-identifier;
      }
      leaf error-message {
        type string;
      }
    }
  }
}

5.1.  Using SIDs in Keys

The yang-data extensions encoded using SIDs are carried in a CBOR map containing a single item
pair. The key of this item is set to the SID assigned to the yang-data extension container; the value
is set to the CBOR encoding of this container, as deﬁned in Section 4.2.

This example shows a serialization example of the yang-errors yang-data extension, as deﬁned in
[CORE-COMI]

, using SIDs, as deﬁned in Section 3.2.

CBOR diagnostic notation:

Veillette, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9254

CBOR Encoding of Data Modeled with YANG

July 2022

{
  1024 : {                      / error  (SID 1024) /
    4 : 1011,                   / error-tag (SID 1028) /
                                / = invalid-value (SID 1011) /
    1 : 1018,                   / error-app-tag (SID 1025) /
                                / = not-in-range (SID 1018) /
    2 : 1740,                   / error-data-node (SID 1026) /
                                / = timezone-utc-offset (SID 1740) /
    3 : "Maximum exceeded"      / error-message (SID 1027) /
  }
}

CBOR encoding:

A1                                      # map(1)
   19 0400                              # unsigned(1024)
   A4                                   # map(4)
      04                                # unsigned(4)
      19 03F3                           # unsigned(1011)
      01                                # unsigned(1)
      19 03FA                           # unsigned(1018)
      02                                # unsigned(2)
      19 06CC                           # unsigned(1740)
      03                                # unsigned(3)
      70                                # text(16)
         4D6178696D756D206578636565646564 # "Maximum exceeded"

5.2.  Using Names in Keys

The yang-data extensions encoded using names are carried in a CBOR map containing a single
item pair. The key of this item is set to the namespace-qualiﬁed name of the yang-data extension
container; the value is set to the CBOR encoding of this container, as deﬁned in Section 4.2.

This example shows a serialization example of the yang-errors yang-data extension, as deﬁned in
[CORE-COMI]

, using names, as deﬁned Section 3.3.

CBOR diagnostic notation:

{
  "ietf-coreconf:error" : {
    "error-tag" : "invalid-value",
    "error-app-tag" : "not-in-range",
    "error-data-node" : "timezone-utc-offset",
    "error-message" : "Maximum exceeded"
  }
}

Veillette, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9254

CBOR Encoding of Data Modeled with YANG

July 2022

CBOR encoding:

A1                                           # map(1)
   73                                        # text(19)
      696574662D636F7265636F6E663A6572726F72 # "ietf-coreconf:error"
   A4                                        # map(4)
      69                                     # text(9)
         6572726F722D746167                  # "error-tag"
      6D                                     # text(13)
         696E76616C69642D76616C7565          # "invalid-value"
      6D                                     # text(13)
         6572726F722D6170702D746167          # "error-app-tag"
      6C                                     # text(12)
         6E6F742D696E2D72616E6765            # "not-in-range"
      6F                                     # text(15)
         6572726F722D646174612D6E6F6465      # "error-data-node"
      73                                     # text(19)
         74696D657A6F6E652D7574632D6F6666736574
                                             # "timezone-utc-offset"
      6D                                     # text(13)
         6572726F722D6D657373616765          # "error-message"
      70                                     # text(16)
         4D6178696D756D206578636565646564    # "Maximum exceeded"

6.  Representing YANG Data Types in CBOR

The CBOR encoding of an instance of a leaf or leaf-list representation node depends on the built-
in type of that representation node. The following subsection deﬁnes the CBOR encoding of each
built-in type supported by YANG, as listed in
. Each subsection shows an
example value assigned to a representation node instance of the discussed built-in type.

Section 4.2.4 of [RFC7950]

6.1.  The Unsigned Integer Types

Leafs of type uint8, uint16, uint32, and uint64
data item (major type 0).

MUST

 be encoded using a CBOR unsigned integer

The following example shows the encoding of an 'mtu' leaf representation node instance set to
1280 bytes.

Deﬁnition example adapted from

[RFC8344]

:

leaf mtu {
  type uint16 {
    range "68..max";
  }
}

CBOR diagnostic notation: 1280

CBOR encoding: 19 0500

Veillette, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9254

CBOR Encoding of Data Modeled with YANG

July 2022

6.2.  The Integer Types

Leafs of type int8, int16, int32, and int64
(major type 0) or a CBOR negative integer (major type 1), depending on the actual value.

 be encoded using either a CBOR unsigned integer

MUST

The following example shows the encoding of a 'timezone-utc-oﬀset' leaf representation node
instance set to -300 minutes.

Deﬁnition example adapted from

[RFC7317]

:

leaf timezone-utc-offset {
  type int16 {
    range "-1500 .. 1500";
  }
}

CBOR diagnostic notation: -300

CBOR encoding: 39 012B

6.3.  The 'decimal64' Type

Leafs of type decimal64
[RFC8949]

.

MUST

 be encoded using a decimal fraction, as deﬁned in

Section 3.4.4 of

The following example shows the encoding of a 'my-decimal' leaf representation node instance
set to 2.57.

Deﬁnition example adapted from

[RFC7317]

:

leaf my-decimal {
  type decimal64 {
    fraction-digits 2;
    range "1 .. 3.14 | 10 | 20..max";
  }
}

CBOR diagnostic notation: 4([-2, 257])

CBOR encoding: C4 82 21 19 0101

6.4.  The 'string' Type

Leafs of type string

MUST

 be encoded using a CBOR text string data item (major type 3).

The following example shows the encoding of a 'name' leaf representation node instance set to
"eth0".

Veillette, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9254

CBOR Encoding of Data Modeled with YANG

July 2022

Deﬁnition example adapted from

[RFC8343]

:

leaf name {
  type string;
}

CBOR diagnostic notation: "eth0"

CBOR encoding: 64 65746830

6.5.  The 'boolean' Type

Leafs of type boolean
information 21) or 'false' (major type 7, additional information 20).

MUST

 be encoded using a CBOR simple value 'true' (major type 7, additional

The following example shows the encoding of an 'enabled' leaf representation node instance set
to 'true'.

Deﬁnition example adapted from

[RFC7317]

:

leaf enabled {
  type boolean;
}

CBOR diagnostic notation: true

CBOR encoding: F5

6.6.  The 'enumeration' Type

MUST

 be encoded using a CBOR unsigned integer (major type 0) or

Leafs of type enumeration
CBOR negative integer (major type 1), depending on the actual value, or exceptionally as a tagged
text string (see below). Enumeration values are either explicitly assigned using the YANG
statement 'value' or automatically assigned based on the algorithm deﬁned in
[RFC7950]

Section 9.6.4.2 of

.

The following example shows the encoding of an 'oper-status' leaf representation node instance
set to 'testing'.

Veillette, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9254

CBOR Encoding of Data Modeled with YANG

July 2022

Deﬁnition example adapted from

[RFC7317]

:

leaf oper-status {
  type enumeration {
    enum up { value 1; }
    enum down { value 2; }
    enum testing { value 3; }
    enum unknown { value 4; }
    enum dormant { value 5; }
    enum not-present { value 6; }
    enum lower-layer-down { value 7; }
  }
}

CBOR diagnostic notation: 3

CBOR encoding: 03

Values of 'enumeration' types deﬁned in a 'union' type
data item (major type 3) and
YANG (see also Section 6.12). The encoding
speciﬁed in Section 9.3.

MUST

MUST

 be encoded using a CBOR text string

 contain one of the names assigned by 'enum' statements in
 be enclosed by the enumeration CBOR tag, as

MUST

Deﬁnition example adapted from

[RFC7950]

:

type union {
  type int32;
  type enumeration {
    enum unbounded;
  }
}

CBOR diagnostic notation: 44("unbounded")

CBOR encoding: D8 2C 69 756E626F756E646564

6.7.  The 'bits' Type

Keeping in mind that bit positions are either explicitly assigned using the YANG statement
'position' or automatically assigned based on the algorithm deﬁned in
each element of type bits could be seen as a set of bit positions (or oﬀsets from position 0) that
have a value of either 1, which represents the bit being set, or 0, which represents that the bit is not
set.

Section 9.7.4.2 of [RFC7950]

,

MUST

 be encoded either using a CBOR array (major type 4) or byte string (major

Leafs of type bits
type 2) or exceptionally as a tagged text string (see below). In case CBOR array representation is
used, each element is either (1) a positive integer (major type 0 with value 0 being disallowed) that
can be used to calculate the oﬀset of the next byte string or (2) a byte string (major type 2) that
carries the information regarding whether certain bits are set or not. The initial oﬀset value is 0,

Veillette, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 9254

CBOR Encoding of Data Modeled with YANG

July 2022

and each unsigned integer modiﬁes the oﬀset value of the next byte string by the integer value
multiplied by 8. For example, if the bit oﬀset is 0 and there is an integer with value 5, the ﬁrst byte
of the byte string that follows will represent bit positions 40 to 47, with both ends included. If the
byte string has a second byte, it will carry information about bits 48 to 55, and so on. Within each
byte, bits are assigned from least to most signiﬁcant. After the byte string, the oﬀset is modiﬁed by
the number of bytes in the byte string multiplied by 8. Bytes with no bits set (zero bytes) at the end
of the byte string are never generated. If they occur at the end of the array, the zero bytes are
simply omitted; if they occur at the end of a byte string preceding an integer, the zero bytes are
removed and the integer is adjusted upwards by the number of zero bytes that were removed. An
example follows.

The following example shows the encoding of an 'alarm-state' leaf representation node instance
with the 'critical' (position 2), 'warning' (position 8), and 'indeterminate' (position 128) ﬂags set.

typedef alarm-state {
  type bits {
    bit unknown;
    bit under-repair;
    bit critical;
    bit major;
    bit minor;
    bit warning {
      position 8;
    }
    bit indeterminate {
      position 128;
    }
  }
}

leaf alarm-state {
  type alarm-state;
}

CBOR diagnostic notation: [h'0401', 14, h'01']

CBOR encoding: 83 42 0401 0E 41 01

In a number of cases, the array would only need to have one element -- a byte string with a few
bytes inside. For this case, it is
 to omit the array element and have only the byte array
that would have been inside. To illustrate this, let us consider the same example YANG deﬁnition
but this time encoding only 'under-repair' and 'critical' ﬂags. The result would be

REQUIRED

CBOR diagnostic notation: h'06'

CBOR encoding: 41 06

Elements in the array
MUST
unsigned integers, where byte strings and integers
adjacent integers are an error. An array with a single byte string

MUST

 alternate, i.e., adjacent byte strings or

MUST

 instead be encoded as just

 be either byte strings that do not end in a zero byte or positive

Veillette, et al.

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 9254

CBOR Encoding of Data Modeled with YANG

July 2022

that byte string. An array with a single positive integer is an error. Note that a recipient can
handle trailing zero bytes in the byte strings using the normal rules without any issue, so an
implementation

 silently accept them.

MAY

Values of 'bits' types deﬁned in a 'union' type
(major type 3) and
MUST
also Section 6.12). The encoding

MUST

 contain a space-separated sequence of names of 'bits' that are set (see

 be enclosed by the bits CBOR tag, as speciﬁed in Section 9.3.

MUST

 be encoded using a CBOR text string data item

The following example shows the encoding of an 'alarm-state' leaf representation node instance
deﬁned using a union type with the 'under-repair' and 'critical' ﬂags set.

Deﬁnition example:

leaf alarm-state-2 {
  type union {
    type alarm-state;
    type bits {
      bit extra-flag;
    }
  }
}

CBOR diagnostic notation: 43("under-repair critical")

CBOR encoding: D8 2B 75 756E6465722D72657061697220637269746963616C

6.8.  The 'binary' Type

Leafs of type binary

MUST

 be encoded using a CBOR byte string data item (major type 2).

The following example shows the encoding of an 'aes128-key' leaf representation node instance
set to 0x1f1ce6a3f42660d888d92a4d8030476e.

Deﬁnition example:

leaf aes128-key {
  type binary {
    length 16;
  }
}

CBOR diagnostic notation: h'1F1CE6A3F42660D888D92A4D8030476E'

CBOR encoding: 50 1F1CE6A3F42660D888D92A4D8030476E

6.9.  The 'leafref' Type

Leafs of type leafref
MUST
the 'path' YANG statement.

 be encoded using the rules of the representation node referenced by

Veillette, et al.

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 9254

CBOR Encoding of Data Modeled with YANG

July 2022

The following example shows the encoding of an 'interface-state-ref' leaf representation node
instance set to "eth1".

Deﬁnition example adapted from

[RFC8343]

:

typedef interface-state-ref {
  type leafref {
    path "/interfaces-state/interface/name";
  }
}

container interfaces-state {
  list interface {
    key "name";
    leaf name {
      type string;
    }
    leaf-list higher-layer-if {
      type interface-state-ref;
    }
  }
}

CBOR diagnostic notation: "eth1"

CBOR encoding: 64 65746831

6.10.  The 'identityref' Type

This speciﬁcation supports two approaches for encoding identityref: as a YANG Schema Item
iDentiﬁer, as deﬁned in Section 3.2, or as a name, as deﬁned in
Section 6.12 for an exceptional case when this representation needs to be tagged.

Section 6.8 of [RFC7951]

. See

6.10.1.  SIDs as 'identityref'

When representation nodes of type identityref are implemented using SIDs, they
encoded using a CBOR unsigned integer data item (major type 0). (Note that, as they are not used
in the position of CBOR map keys, no delta mechanism is employed for SIDs used for identityref.)

MUST

 be

The following example shows the encoding of a 'type' leaf representation node instance set to the
value 'iana-if-type:ethernetCsmacd' (SID 1880).

Deﬁnition example adapted from

[RFC7317]

:

Veillette, et al.

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 9254

CBOR Encoding of Data Modeled with YANG

July 2022

identity interface-type {
}

identity iana-interface-type {
  base interface-type;
}

identity ethernetCsmacd {
  base iana-interface-type;
}

leaf type {
  type identityref {
    base interface-type;
  }
}

CBOR diagnostic notation: 1880

CBOR encoding: 19 0758

6.10.2.  Name as 'identityref'

MAY

 be encoded using a name, as deﬁned in Section 3.3. When names

Alternatively, an identityref
are used, identityref
identity is deﬁned in a diﬀerent module than the leaf node containing the identityref data node,
the namespace-qualiﬁed form
forms are permitted. Names and namespaces are deﬁned in Section 3.3.

 be encoded using a CBOR text string data item (major type 3). If the

 be used. Otherwise, both the simple and namespace-qualiﬁed

MUST

MUST

The following example shows the encoding of the identity 'iana-if-type:ethernetCsmacd' using its
namespace-qualiﬁed name. This example is described in Section 6.10.1.

CBOR diagnostic notation: "iana-if-type:ethernetCsmacd"

CBOR encoding: 78 1B 69616E612D69662D747970653A65746865726E657443736D616364

6.11.  The 'empty' Type

Leafs of type empty
information 22).

MUST

 be encoded using the CBOR null value (major type 7, additional

The following example shows the encoding of an 'is-router' leaf representation node instance
when present.

Deﬁnition example adapted from

[RFC8344]

:

leaf is-router {
  type empty;
}

Veillette, et al.

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 9254

CBOR Encoding of Data Modeled with YANG

July 2022

CBOR diagnostic notation: null

CBOR encoding: F6

6.12.  The 'union' Type

Leafs of type union
used in a union, the following YANG datatypes are enclosed by a CBOR tag to avoid confusion
between diﬀerent YANG datatypes encoded using the same CBOR major type.

 be encoded using the rules associated with one of the types listed. When

MUST

•

bits

•

enumeration

•

identityref

•

instance-identiﬁer

See Section 9.3 for the assigned value of these CBOR tags.

As mentioned in Sections 6.6 and in 6.7, 'enumeration' and 'bits' are encoded as a CBOR text string
data item (major type 3) when deﬁned within a 'union' type. (This adds considerable complexity
but is necessary because of an idiosyncrasy of the YANG data model for unions; the work-around
allows compatibility to be maintained with the encoding of overlapping unions in XML and JSON.
See also

Section 9.12 of [RFC7950]

.)

The following example shows the encoding of an 'ip-address' leaf representation node instance
when set to "2001:db8:a0b:12f0::1".

Veillette, et al.

Standards Track

Page 33

RFC 9254

CBOR Encoding of Data Modeled with YANG

July 2022

Deﬁnition example adapted from

[RFC6991]

:

typedef ipv4-address {
  type string {
    pattern
      '(([0-9]|[1-9][0-9]|1[0-9][0-9]|2[0-4][0-9]|25[0-5])\.){3}'
    +  '([0-9]|[1-9][0-9]|1[0-9][0-9]|2[0-4][0-9]|25[0-5])'
    + '(%[\p{N}\p{L}]+)?';
  }
}

typedef ipv6-address {
  type string {
    pattern '((:|[0-9a-fA-F]{0,4}):)([0-9a-fA-F]{0,4}:){0,5}'
          + '((([0-9a-fA-F]{0,4}:)?(:|[0-9a-fA-F]{0,4}))|'
          + '(((25[0-5]|2[0-4][0-9]|[01]?[0-9]?[0-9])\.){3}'
          + '(25[0-5]|2[0-4][0-9]|[01]?[0-9]?[0-9])))'
          + '(%[\p{N}\p{L}]+)?';
    pattern '(([^:]+:){6}(([^:]+:[^:]+)|(.*\..*)))|'
          + '((([^:]+:)*[^:]+)?::(([^:]+:)*[^:]+)?)'
          + '(%.+)?';
  }
}

typedef ip-address {
  type union {
    type ipv4-address;
    type ipv6-address;
  }
}

leaf address {
  type ip-address;
}

CBOR diagnostic notation: "2001:db8:a0b:12f0::1"

CBOR encoding: 74 323030313A6462383A6130623A313266303A3A31

6.13.  The 'instance-identiﬁer' Type

This speciﬁcation supports two approaches for encoding an instance-identiﬁer: one based on
YANG Schema Item iDentiﬁer, as deﬁned in Section 3.2, and one based on names, as deﬁned in
Section 3.3. See Section 6.12 for an exceptional case when this representation needs to be tagged.

6.13.1.  SIDs as 'instance-identiﬁer'

SIDs uniquely identify a schema node. In the case of a single instance schema node, i.e., a schema
node deﬁned at the root of a YANG module or submodule or schema nodes deﬁned within a
container, the SID is suﬃcient to identify this instance (representation node). (Note that no delta
mechanism is employed for SIDs used for identityref, see Section 6.10.1.)

Veillette, et al.

Standards Track

Page 34

RFC 9254

CBOR Encoding of Data Modeled with YANG

July 2022

In the case of a representation node that is an entry of a YANG list, a SID is combined with the list
key(s) to identify each instance within the YANG list(s).

Instance-identiﬁers of single instance schema nodes
integer data item (major type 0) and set to the targeted schema node SID.

MUST

 be encoded using a CBOR unsigned

Instance-identiﬁers of representation node entries of a YANG list
array data item (major type 4) containing the following entries:

MUST

 be encoded using a CBOR

•

The ﬁrst entry
MUST
to the targeted schema node SID.

 be encoded as a CBOR unsigned integer data item (major type 0) and set

•

The following entries
 be ordered as deﬁned in the 'key' YANG
the targeted schema node. These keys
MUST
statement, starting from the top-level list, and followed by each subordinate list(s).

 contain the value of each key required to identify the instance of

MUST

Examples within this section assume the deﬁnition of a schema node of type 'instance-identiﬁer':

Deﬁnition example adapted from

[RFC7950]

:

container system {
  ...
  leaf reporting-entity {
    type instance-identifier;
  }

First example:

The following example shows the encoding of the 'reporting-entity' value referencing data node
instance "/system/contact" (SID 1741).

Deﬁnition example adapted from

[RFC7317]

:

container system {

  leaf contact {
    type string;
  }

  leaf hostname {
    type inet:domain-name;
  }
}

CBOR diagnostic notation: 1741

CBOR encoding: 19 06CD

Veillette, et al.

Standards Track

Page 35

RFC 9254

CBOR Encoding of Data Modeled with YANG

July 2022

Second example:

This example aims to show how a representation node entry of a YANG list is identiﬁed. It uses a
somewhat arbitrarily modiﬁed YANG module version from
 by adding country to the
leafs and keys of authorized-key.

[RFC7317]

The following example shows the encoding of the 'reporting-entity' value referencing list instance
"/system/authentication/user/authorized-key/key-data" (which is assumed to have SID 1734) for
username "bob" and authorized-key with name "admin" and country "france".

list user {
  key name;

  leaf name {
    type string;
  }

  leaf password {
    type ianach:crypt-hash;
  }

  list authorized-key {
    key "name country";

    leaf country {
      type string;
    }

    leaf name {
      type string;
    }

    leaf algorithm {
      type string;
    }

    leaf key-data {
      type binary;
    }
  }
}

CBOR diagnostic notation: [1734, "bob", "admin", "france"]

Veillette, et al.

Standards Track

Page 36

RFC 9254

CBOR Encoding of Data Modeled with YANG

July 2022

CBOR encoding:

84                 # array(4)
   19 06C6         # unsigned(1734)
   63              # text(3)
      626F62       # "bob"
   65              # text(5)
      61646D696E   # "admin"
   66              # text(6)
      6672616E6365 # "france"

Third example:

The following example shows the encoding of the 'reporting-entity' value referencing the list
instance "/system/authentication/user" (SID 1730), corresponding to username "jack".

CBOR diagnostic notation: [1730, "jack"]

CBOR encoding:

82             # array(2)
   19 06C2     # unsigned(1730)
   64          # text(4)
      6A61636B # "jack"

6.13.2.  Names as 'instance-identiﬁer'

An 'instance-identiﬁer' value is encoded as a text string that is analogous to the lexical
representation in XML encoding; see
namespaces in instance-identiﬁer values follows the rules stated in Section 3.3, namely:

Section 9.13.2 of [RFC7950]

. However, the encoding of

•

The leftmost (top-level) data node name is always in the namespace-qualiﬁed form.

•

Any subsequent data node name is in the namespace-qualiﬁed form if the node is deﬁned in a
module other than its parent node; otherwise, the simple form is used. This rule also holds for
node names appearing in predicates.

For example,

/ietf-interfaces:interfaces/interface[name='eth0']/ietf-ip:ipv4/ip

is a valid instance-identiﬁer value because the data nodes "interfaces", "interface", and "name"
are deﬁned in the module "ietf-interfaces", whereas "ipv4" and "ip" are deﬁned in "ietf-ip".

The resulting XML Path Language (XPath)
(major type 3).

MUST

 be encoded using a CBOR text string data item

First example:

This example is described in Section 6.13.1.

Veillette, et al.

Standards Track

Page 37

RFC 9254

CBOR Encoding of Data Modeled with YANG

July 2022

CBOR diagnostic notation: "/ietf-system:system/contact"

CBOR encoding:

78 1B 2F696574662D73797374656D3A73797374656D2F636F6E74616374

Second example:

This example is described in Section 6.13.1.

CBOR diagnostic notation (the line break is inserted for exposition only):

"/ietf-system:system/authentication/user[name='bob']/
authorized-key[name='admin'][country='france']/key-data"

CBOR encoding:

78 6B
   2F696574662D73797374656D3A73797374656D2F61757468656E74696361
   74696F6E2F757365725B6E616D653D27626F62275D2F617574686F72697A
   65642D6B65795B6E616D653D2761646D696E275D5B636F756E7472793D27
   6672616E6365275D2F6B65792D64617461

Third example:

This example is described in Section 6.13.1.

CBOR diagnostic notation:

"/ietf-system:system/authentication/user[name='jack']"

CBOR encoding:

78 34                                   # text(52)
   2F696574662D73797374656D3A73797374656D2F61757468656E74696361
   74696F6E2F757365725B6E616D653D276A61636B275D

7.  Content-Types

This speciﬁcation deﬁnes the media type application/yang-data+cbor, which can be used
without parameters or with the id parameter set to either name or sid.

Veillette, et al.

Standards Track

Page 38

RFC 9254

CBOR Encoding of Data Modeled with YANG

July 2022

This media type represents a YANG-CBOR document containing a representation tree. If the
media type parameter id is present, depending on its value, each representation node is
identiﬁed by its associated namespace-qualiﬁed name, as deﬁned in Section 3.3 (id=name), or by
its associated YANG SID (represented, e.g., in CBOR map keys as a SID delta or via tag number 47),
as deﬁned in Section 3.2 (id=sid), respectively. If no id parameter is given, both forms may be
present.

The format of an application/yang-data+cbor representation is that of a CBOR map,
mapping names, and/or SIDs (as deﬁned above) into instance values (using the rules deﬁned in
Section 4).

It is not foreseen at this point that the valid set of values for the id parameter will extend beyond
name, sid, or being unset; if that does happen, any new value is foreseen to be of the form [a-z]
[a-z0-9]*(-[a-z0-9]+)*.

In summary, this document deﬁnes three content-types, which are intended for use by diﬀerent
classes of applications:

•

application/yang-data+cbor; id=sid -- for use by applications that need to be frugal
with encoding space and text string processing (e.g., applications running on constrained
nodes

 or applications with particular performance requirements);

[RFC7228]

•

application/yang-data+cbor; id=name -- for use by applications that do not want to
engage in SID management and that have ample resources to manage text-string-based item
identiﬁers (e.g., applications that directly want to substitute application/yang.data+json
with a more eﬃcient representation without any other changes); and

•

application/yang-data+cbor -- for use by more complex applications that can beneﬁt
from the increased eﬃciency of SID identiﬁers but also need to integrate databases of YANG
modules before SID mappings are deﬁned for them.

All three content-types are based on the same representation mechanisms, parts of which are
simply not used in the ﬁrst and second cases.

How the use of one of these content-types is selected in a transfer protocol is outside the scope of
this speciﬁcation. The last paragraph of
request the usage of speciﬁc content-types in RESTCONF. Similar mechanisms are available in the
Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP)
Options;
the id=sid case.

 demonstrates speciﬁcs on how Content-Format may be used to indicate

 using the Content-Format and Accept

 discusses how to indicate and

Section 5.2 of [RFC8040]

[CORE-COMI]

[RFC7252]

8.  Security Considerations

The security considerations of

[RFC8949]

 and

[RFC7950]

 apply.

This document deﬁnes an alternative encoding for data modeled in the YANG data modeling
language. As such, this encoding does not contribute any new security issues in addition to those
identiﬁed for the speciﬁc protocol or context for which it is used.

Veillette, et al.

Standards Track

Page 39

RFC 9254

CBOR Encoding of Data Modeled with YANG

July 2022

 reject all messages that do not
To minimize security risks, software on the receiving side
comply to the rules of this document and reply with an appropriate error message to the sender.

SHOULD

For instance, when the id parameter to the media type is used, it is important to properly reject
identiﬁers of the other type to avoid scenarios where diﬀerent implementations interpret a given
content in diﬀerent ways.

When SIDs are in use, the interpretation of encoded data not only relies on having the right YANG
modules but also on having the right SID mapping information. Management and evolution of
that mapping information therefore requires the same care as the management and evolution of
 are being deﬁned with this in mind.
the YANG modules themselves. The procedures in

[CORE-SID]

9.  IANA Considerations

9.1.  Media Types Registry

IANA has added the following media type to the "Media Types" registry

[IANA.media-types]

.

Name

Template

Reference

yang-data+cbor

application/yang-data+cbor

RFC 9254

Table 2: Media Types Registry

Type name:

application

Subtype name:

yang-data+cbor

Required parameters:

N/A

Optional parameters:

id (see Section 7 of RFC 9254)

Encoding considerations:

binary (CBOR)

Security considerations:

see Section 8 of RFC 9254

Interoperability considerations:

N/A

Published speciﬁcation:

RFC 9254

Applications that use this media type:

applications that need a concise and eﬃcient

representation of YANG-modeled data

Fragment identiﬁer considerations:

The syntax and semantics of fragment identiﬁers speciﬁed

for "application/yang-data+cbor" is as speciﬁed for "application/cbor". (At publication of this
document, there is no fragment identiﬁcation syntax deﬁned for "application/cbor".)

Additional information:

Magic number(s):

N/A

Veillette, et al.

Standards Track

Page 40

RFC 9254

CBOR Encoding of Data Modeled with YANG

July 2022

File extension(s):

N/A

Macintosh ﬁle type code(s):

N/A

Person & email address to contact for further information:

CORE WG mailing list

(core@ietf.org) or IETF Applications and Real-Time Area (art@ietf.org)

Intended usage:

COMMON

Restrictions on usage:

N/A

Author:

CoRE WG

Change controller:

IETF

9.2.  CoAP Content-Formats Registry

IANA has added the following Content-Formats to the "CoAP Content-Formats" subregistry, within
. The
the "Constrained RESTful Environments (CoRE) Parameters" registry
registration procedure is "Expert Review" for the 0-255 range and "IETF Review" for the 256-9999
range.

[IANA.core-parameters]

Media Type

Encoding

ID

Reference

application/yang-data+cbor

application/yang-data+cbor; id=name

application/yang-data+cbor; id=sid

Table 3: CoAP Content-Format Registry

-

-

-

9.3.  CBOR Tags Registry

340

RFC 9254

341

RFC 9254

140

RFC 9254

IANA has allocated the following CBOR tag numbers in the "CBOR Tags" registry
deﬁned in

Section 9.2 of [RFC8949]

.

[IANA.cbor-tags]

Tag Data Item

Semantics

Reference

43

44

45

46

text string

text string

YANG bits datatype; see Section 6.7.

RFC 9254

YANG enumeration datatype; see
Section 6.6.

RFC 9254

unsigned integer or text
string

YANG identityref datatype; see Section
6.10.

RFC 9254

unsigned integer or text
string or array

YANG instance-identiﬁer datatype; see
Section 6.13.

RFC 9254

Veillette, et al.

Standards Track

Page 41

RFC 9254

CBOR Encoding of Data Modeled with YANG

July 2022

Tag Data Item

Semantics

YANG Schema Item iDentiﬁer (SID); see
Section 3.2.

47

unsigned integer

Table 4: CBOR Tags Registry

10.  References

10.1.  Normative References

Reference

RFC 9254

[IANA.cbor-tags]

IANA "Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR) Tags" <https://

,

,

www.iana.org/assignments/cbor-tags>
.

[IANA.core-parameters]

IANA "Constrained RESTful Environments (CoRE) Parameters"
,

,

<https://www.iana.org/assignments/core-parameters/>
.

[IANA.media-types]

IANA "Media Types" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/media-types/>
.

,

,

[RFC2119]

[RFC5234]

[RFC7950]

[RFC7951]

[RFC8040]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8259]

[RFC8610]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
,
, March 1997,
.
rfc2119>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

Crocker, D., Ed.
,
STD 68 RFC 5234 DOI 10.17487/RFC5234
.
editor.org/info/rfc5234>

 and
,

,

,
P. Overell "Augmented BNF for Syntax Speciﬁcations: ABNF"

, January 2008,

<https://www.rfc-

Bjorklund, M., Ed. "The YANG 1.1 Data Modeling Language" RFC 7950 DOI
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7950>
10.17487/RFC7950

,
, August 2016,

,

,

Lhotka, L. "JSON Encoding of Data Modeled with YANG" RFC 7951 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7951

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7951>

, August 2016,

,

,

,

,
Bierman, A. Bjorklund, M.
10.17487/RFC8040

, and
, January 2017,

,
K. Watsen "RESTCONF Protocol" RFC 8040 DOI
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8040>

,

,

,
,
Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
.
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,
Bray, T., Ed. "The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data Interchange Format"
STD 90 RFC 8259 DOI 10.17487/RFC8259
.
editor.org/info/rfc8259>

<https://www.rfc-

, December 2017,

,

,

, and

,
Birkholz, H. Vigano, C.
(CDDL): A Notational Convention to Express Concise Binary Object
Representation (CBOR) and JSON Data Structures" RFC 8610 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8610

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8610>

C. Bormann "Concise Data Deﬁnition Language

, June 2019,

,

,

Veillette, et al.

Standards Track

Page 42

RFC 9254

CBOR Encoding of Data Modeled with YANG

July 2022

[RFC8791]

[RFC8949]

Bierman, A. Björklund, M.
,
, and
RFC 8791 DOI 10.17487/RFC8791
,
rfc8791>
.

K. Watsen "YANG Data Structure Extensions"
,
,
, June 2020,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

Bormann, C.
STD 94 RFC 8949 DOI 10.17487/RFC8949
,
editor.org/info/rfc8949>
.

P. Hoﬀman "Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR)"
 and
,
,
, December 2020,

<https://www.rfc-

,

10.2.  Informative References

[CORE-COMI]

[CORE-SID]

[RFC6241]

[RFC6991]

[RFC7228]

[RFC7252]

[RFC7317]

[RFC8343]

[RFC8344]

,

Veillette, M., Ed. van der Stok, P., Ed. Pelov, A. Bierman, A.
"CoAP Management Interface (CORECONF)" Work in Progress Internet-Draft,
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/
draft-ietf-core-comi-11
.
draft-ietf-core-comi-11>

, and
,
I. Petrov, Ed.
,

, 17 January 2021,

,
,

,

,

,
Veillette, M., Ed. Pelov, A., Ed. Petrov, I., Ed. Bormann, C.
"YANG Schema Item iDentiﬁer (YANG SID)" Work in Progress Internet-Draft,
draft-ietf-core-sid-18
.
draft-ietf-core-sid-18>

, and
M. Richardson
,

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/

, 18 November 2021,

,
,

,

,

Enns, R., Ed. Bjorklund, M., Ed. Schoenwaelder, J., Ed.
,
"Network Conﬁguration Protocol (NETCONF)" RFC 6241 DOI 10.17487/RFC6241
June 2011,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6241>

,
A. Bierman, Ed.

, and
,

,

,

Schoenwaelder, J., Ed. "Common YANG Data Types" RFC 6991 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6991

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6991>

, July 2013,

,

,

,

,

Bormann, C. Ersue, M.
,
,
Networks" RFC 7228 DOI 10.17487/RFC7228
.
editor.org/info/rfc7228>

, and

,

A. Keranen "Terminology for Constrained-Node

, May 2014,

<https://www.rfc-

,
Shelby, Z. Hartke, K.
(CoAP)" RFC 7252 DOI 10.17487/RFC7252
.
info/rfc7252>

, and

,

,

,

C. Bormann "The Constrained Application Protocol

, June 2014,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

 and

,
Bierman, A.
,
RFC 7317 DOI 10.17487/RFC7317
.
rfc7317>

,
M. Bjorklund "A YANG Data Model for System Management"
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, August 2014,

Bjorklund, M. "A YANG Data Model for Interface Management" RFC 8343 DOI
10.17487/RFC8343

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8343>

, March 2018,

,

,

,

Bjorklund, M. "A YANG Data Model for IP Management" RFC 8344 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8344

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8344>

,
, March 2018,

,

,

Veillette, et al.

Standards Track

Page 43

RFC 9254

CBOR Encoding of Data Modeled with YANG

July 2022

Acknowledgments

This document has been largely inspired by the extensive work done by
van der Stok
would like to thank the authors and contributors of these two documents.

[CORE-COMI] [RFC7951]

 on

.

 has also been a critical input to this work. The authors

Andy Bierman

 and

Peter

 and

Jürgen Schönwälder

The authors would also like to acknowledge the review, feedback, and comments from
 and from the Document Shepherd
Lhotka
comments helped us further improve the document in the IESG review process; the authors would
like to call out speciﬁcally the feedback and guidance by the responsible AD
Francesca Palombini
.
and the signiﬁcant improvements suggested by IESG members

Benjamin Kaduk

Marco Tiloca

Rob Wilton

. Extensive

Ladislav

 and

Authors' Addresses

editor
)

Michel Veillette (
Trilliant Networks Inc.
610 Rue du Luxembourg
Granby Quebec J2J 2V2
Canada
Email:

 michel.veillette@trilliantinc.com

editor
)

Ivaylo Petrov (
Google Switzerland GmbH
Brandschenkestrasse 110
CH-
Switzerland
Email:

8002 Zurich

 ivaylopetrov@google.com

Alexander Pelov
Acklio
1137A avenue des Champs Blancs
35510 Cesson-Sevigne Cedex
France
Email:

 a@ackl.io

Carsten Bormann
Universität Bremen TZI
Postfach 330440
D-28359 Bremen
Germany
Phone:
Email:

 +49-421-218-63921
 cabo@tzi.org

Veillette, et al.

Standards Track

Page 44

RFC 9254

CBOR Encoding of Data Modeled with YANG

July 2022

Michael Richardson
Sandelman Software Works
Canada
Email:

 mcr+ietf@sandelman.ca

Veillette, et al.

Standards Track

Page 45

