Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9117
8955
Standards Track
August 2021
2070-1721
J. Uttaro
AT&T

J. Alcaide
Cisco

C. Filsﬁls
Cisco

D. Smith
Cisco

P. Mohapatra
Sproute Networks

RFC 9117
Revised Validation Procedure for BGP Flow
Speciﬁcations

Abstract

This document describes a modiﬁcation to the validation procedure deﬁned for the
dissemination of BGP Flow Speciﬁcations. The dissemination of BGP Flow Speciﬁcations as
speciﬁed in RFC 8955 requires that the originator of the Flow Speciﬁcation match the originator
of the best-match unicast route for the destination preﬁx embedded in the Flow Speciﬁcation.
For an Internal Border Gateway Protocol (iBGP) received route, the originator is typically a
border router within the same autonomous system (AS). The objective is to allow only BGP
speakers within the data forwarding path to originate BGP Flow Speciﬁcations. Sometimes it is
desirable to originate the BGP Flow Speciﬁcation from any place within the autonomous system
itself, for example, from a centralized BGP route controller. However, the validation procedure
described in RFC 8955 will fail in this scenario. The modiﬁcation proposed herein relaxes the
validation rule to enable Flow Speciﬁcations to be originated within the same autonomous
system as the BGP speaker performing the validation. Additionally, this document revises the
AS_PATH validation rules so Flow Speciﬁcations received from an External Border Gateway
Protocol (eBGP) peer can be validated when such a peer is a BGP route server.

This document updates the validation procedure in RFC 8955.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9117

.

Uttaro, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9117

Revised Flowspec Validation Procedure

August 2021

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Deﬁnitions of Terms Used in This Memo

3.  Motivation

4.  Revised Validation Procedure

4.1.  Revision of Route Feasibility

4.2.  Revision of AS_PATH Validation

5.  Topology Considerations

6.  IANA Considerations

7.  Security Considerations

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

8.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

 deﬁnes BGP Network Layer Reachability Information (NLRI)

[RFC8955]
used to distribute traﬃc Flow Speciﬁcations amongst BGP speakers in support of traﬃc ﬁltering.
The primary intention of
traﬃc ﬁltering policies to upstream autonomous systems. In this way, traﬃc is ﬁltered closer to

 is to enable downstream autonomous systems to signal

 that can be

[RFC8955]

[RFC4760]

Uttaro, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9117

Revised Flowspec Validation Procedure

August 2021

the source and the upstream autonomous systems avoid carrying the traﬃc to the downstream
[RFC8955]
autonomous systems only to be discarded.
 also enables more granular traﬃc ﬁltering
based upon upper-layer protocol information (e.g., protocol or port numbers) as opposed to
coarse IP destination preﬁx-based ﬁltering. Flow Speciﬁcation NLRIs received from a BGP peer is
subject to validity checks before being considered feasible and subsequently installed within the
respective Adj-RIB-In.

[RFC8955]

 requires that the originator of the Flow

The validation procedure deﬁned within
Speciﬁcation NLRI match the originator of the best-match unicast route for the destination preﬁx
embedded in the Flow Speciﬁcation. The aim is to make sure that only speakers on the
forwarding path can originate the Flow Speciﬁcation. Let's consider the particular case where
the Flow Speciﬁcation is originated in any location within the same Local Domain as the speaker
performing the validation (for example, by a centralized BGP route controller), and the best-
match unicast route is originated in another Local Domain. In order for the validation to succeed
for a Flow Speciﬁcation received from an iBGP peer, it would be necessary to disseminate such
Flow Speciﬁcation NLRI directly from the speciﬁc border router (within the Local Domain) that is
advertising the corresponding best-match unicast route to the Local Domain. Those border
routers would be acting as de facto route controllers. This approach would be, however,
operationally cumbersome in a Local Domain with numerous border routers having complex
BGP policies.

Figure 1 illustrates this principle. R1 (the upstream router) and RR (a route reﬂector) need to
validate the Flow Speciﬁcation whose embedded destination preﬁx has a best-match unicast
route (dest-route) originated by ASBR2. ASBR2 could originate the Flow Speciﬁcation, and it
would be validated when received by RR and R1 (from their point of view, the originator of both
the Flow Speciﬁcation and the best-match unicast route will be ASBR1). Sometimes the Flow
Speciﬁcation needs to be originated within AS1. ASBR1 could originate it, and the Flow
Speciﬁcation would still be validated. In both cases, the Flow Speciﬁcation is originated by a
router in the same forwarding path as the dest-route. For the case where AS1 has thousands of
ASBRs, it becomes impractical to originate diﬀerent Flow Speciﬁcation rules on each ASBR in AS1
based on which ASBR each dest-route is learned from. To make the situation more tenable, the
objective is to advertise all the Flow Speciﬁcations from the same route controller.

        R1(AS1) --- RR(AS1) --- ASBR1(AS1) --- ASBR2(AS2)
                     |
             route controller(AS1)

Figure 1

This document describes a modiﬁcation to the validation procedure described in
[RFC8955]
allowing Flow Speciﬁcation NLRIs to be originated from a centralized BGP route controller
located within the Local Domain and not necessarily in the data-forwarding path. While the
proposed modiﬁcation cannot be used for inter-domain coordination of traﬃc ﬁltering, it greatly
simpliﬁes distribution of intra-domain traﬃc ﬁltering policies within a Local Domain that has

, by

Uttaro, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9117

Revised Flowspec Validation Procedure

August 2021

numerous border routers having complex BGP policies. By relaxing the validation procedure for
iBGP, the proposed modiﬁcation allows Flow Speciﬁcations to be distributed in a standard and
scalable manner throughout the Local Domain.

Throughout this document, some references are made to AS_CONFED_SEQUENCE segments; see
Sections 4.1 and 5. If AS_CONFED_SET segments are also present in the AS_PATH, the same
considerations apply to them. Note, however, that the use of AS_CONFED_SET segments is not
recommended

[CONFED-SET]

[RFC6472]

. Refer to

 as well.

2.  Deﬁnitions of Terms Used in This Memo

Local Domain:

the local AS or the local confederation of ASes

[RFC5065]

.

eBGP:

BGP peering to a router not within the Local Domain.

iBGP:

Both classic iBGP and any form of eBGP peering with a router within the same

confederation (i.e., iBGP peering is a peering that is not eBGP as deﬁned above).

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Motivation

Step (b) of the validation procedure in
assumption that the Flow Speciﬁcation NLRI traverses the same path, in the inter-domain and
intra-domain route distribution graph, as that of the longest-match unicast route for the
destination preﬁx embedded in the Flow Speciﬁcation.

 is deﬁned with the underlying

Section 6 of [RFC8955]

In the case of inter-domain traﬃc ﬁltering, the Flow Speciﬁcation originator at the egress border
routers of an AS (e.g., RTR-D and RTR-E of AS1 in Figure 2) matches the eBGP neighbor that
advertised the longest match destination preﬁx (see RTR-F and RTR-G, respectively, in Figure 2).

Similarly, at the upstream routers of an AS (see RTR-A and RTR-B of AS1 in Figure 2), the Flow
Speciﬁcation originator matches the egress iBGP border routers that had advertised the unicast
route for the best-match destination preﬁx (see RTR-D and RTR-E, respectively, in Figure 2). This
is true even when upstream routers select paths from diﬀerent egress border routers as the best
route based upon IGP distance. For example, in Figure 2:

RTR-A chooses RTR-D as the best route

Uttaro, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9117

Revised Flowspec Validation Procedure

August 2021

RTR-B chooses RTR-E as the best route

                  / - - - - - - - - - - - - -  -
                  |            AS1              |
                    +-------+        +-------+
                  | |       |        |       |  |
                    | RTR-A |        | RTR-B |
                  | |       |        |       |  |
                    +-------+        +-------+
                  |       \           /         |
                     iBGP  \         / iBGP
                  |         \       /           |
                            +-------+
                  |         |       |           |
                            | RTR-C |
                  |         |  RC   |           |
                            +-------+
                  |           /   \             |
                             /     \
                  |   iBGP  /       \ iBGP      |
                    +-------+        +-------+
                  | | RTR-D |        | RTR-E |  |
                    |       |        |       |
                  | |       |        |       |  |
                    +-------+        +-------+
                  |     |                 |     |
                   - - -|- - - - - - - - -|- - -/
                        | eBGP       eBGP |
                   - - -|- - - - - - - - -|- - -/
                  |     |                 |     |
                    +-------+        +-------+
                  | |       |        |       |  |
                    | RTR-F |        | RTR-G |
                  | |       |        |       |  |
                    +-------+        +-------+
                  |            AS2              |
                  / - - - - - - - - - - - - -  -

Figure 2

It is highly desirable that mechanisms exist to protect each AS independently from network
security attacks using the BGP Flow Speciﬁcation NLRI for intra-AS purposes only. Network
operators often deploy a dedicated Security Operations Center (SOC) within their AS to monitor
and detect such security attacks. To mitigate attacks within an AS, operators require the ability to
originate intra-AS Flow Speciﬁcation NLRIs from a central BGP route controller that is not within
the data forwarding plane. In this way, operators can direct border routers within their AS with
speciﬁc attack-mitigation actions (drop the traﬃc, forward to a pipe-cleaning location, etc.).

In addition, an operator may extend the requirements above for a group of ASes via policy. This
is described in Section 4.1 (b.2.3) of the validation procedure.

Uttaro, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9117

Revised Flowspec Validation Procedure

August 2021

A central BGP route controller that originates Flow Speciﬁcation NLRI should be able to avoid the
complexity of having to determine the egress border router whose path was chosen as the best
for each of its neighbors. When a central BGP route controller originates Flow Speciﬁcation NLRI,
the rest of the speakers within the AS will see the BGP route controller as the originator of the
Flow Speciﬁcation in terms of the validation procedure rules. Thus, it is necessary to modify step
(b) of the validation procedure described in
[RFC8955]
the data forwarding plane may originate Flow Speciﬁcation NLRIs.

 such that an iBGP peer that is not within

4.  Revised Validation Procedure

4.1.  Revision of Route Feasibility

Step (b) of the validation procedure speciﬁed in

Section 6 of [RFC8955]

 is redeﬁned as follows:

b)

One of the following conditions

MUST

 hold true:

1. The originator of the Flow Speciﬁcation matches the originator of the best-match
unicast route for the destination preﬁx embedded in the Flow Speciﬁcation (this
is the unicast route with the longest possible preﬁx length covering the
destination preﬁx embedded in the Flow Speciﬁcation).

2. The AS_PATH attribute of the Flow Speciﬁcation is empty or contains only an

AS_CONFED_SEQUENCE segment

[RFC5065]
.

1. This condition

SHOULD

 be enabled by default.

2. This condition

MAY

 be disabled by explicit conﬁguration on a BGP speaker.

3. As an extension to this rule, a given non-empty AS_PATH (besides

AS_CONFED_SEQUENCE segments)

MAY

 be permitted by policy.

Explanation:

Receiving either an empty AS_PATH or one with only an AS_CONFED_SEQUENCE segment
indicates that the Flow Speciﬁcation was originated inside the Local Domain.

With the above modiﬁcation to the
Local Domain that is not within the data-forwarding path can originate a Flow Speciﬁcation.

 validation procedure, a BGP peer within the

[RFC8955]

Disabling the new condition above (see step b.2.2 in Section 4.1) could be a good practice if
the operator knew with certainty that a Flow Speciﬁcation would not be originated inside
the Local Domain. An additional case would be if it was known for a fact that only the right
egress border routers (i.e., those that were also egress border routers for the best routes)
were originating Flow Speciﬁcation NLRI.

Also, policy may be useful to permit a speciﬁc set of non-empty AS_PATHs (see step b.2.3 in
Section 4.1). For example, it could validate a Flow Speciﬁcation whose AS_PATH contained

Uttaro, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9117

Revised Flowspec Validation Procedure

August 2021

only an AS_SEQUENCE segment with ASes that were all known to belong to the same
administrative domain.

4.2.  Revision of AS_PATH Validation

Section 6 of [RFC8955]

 states:

MUST

BGP implementations
received via the External Border Gateway Protocol (eBGP) contains the neighboring
AS in the left-most position of the AS_PATH attribute. While this rule is optional in
the BGP speciﬁcation, it becomes necessary to enforce it here for security reasons.

 also enforce that the AS_PATH attribute of a route

This rule prevents the exchange of BGP Flow Speciﬁcation NLRIs at Internet exchanges with BGP
route servers, which by design don't insert their own AS number into the AS_PATH (
). Therefore, this document also redeﬁnes the
2.2.2.1 of [RFC7947]
procedure referenced above as follows:

 AS_PATH validation

[RFC8955]

Section

BGP Flow Speciﬁcation implementations
position of the AS_PATH attribute of a Flow Speciﬁcation route received via the
External Border Gateway Protocol (eBGP) matches the AS in the left-most position of
the AS_PATH attribute of the best-match unicast route for the destination preﬁx
embedded in the Flow Speciﬁcation NLRI.

 enforce that the AS in the left-most

MUST

Explanation:

For clarity, the AS in the left-most position of the AS_PATH means the AS that was last added
to an AS_SEQUENCE.

This proposed modiﬁcation enables the exchange of BGP Flow Speciﬁcation NLRIs at
Internet exchanges with BGP route servers while at the same time, for security reasons,
prevents an eBGP peer from advertising an inter-domain Flow Speciﬁcation for a destination
preﬁx that it does not provide reachability information for.

Comparing only the left-most AS in the AS-PATH for eBGP-learned Flow Speciﬁcation NLRIs
is roughly equivalent to checking the neighboring AS. If the peer is a route server, security is
necessarily weakened for the Flow Speciﬁcation NLRI, as it is for any unicast route
advertised from a route server. An example is discussed in the Security Considerations
section.

[RFC8955]

Redeﬁnition of this AS_PATH validation rule for a Flow Speciﬁcation does not mean that the
 cannot be enforced as well. Its enforcement remains optional per
original rule in
Section 6.3 of [RFC4271]
. That is, a BGP speaker can enforce the ﬁrst AS in the AS_PATH to be
the same as the neighbor AS for a route belonging to any Address Family (including Flow
Speciﬁcation Address Family). If the BGP speaker peer is not a route server, when enforcing

Uttaro, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9117

Revised Flowspec Validation Procedure

August 2021

this optional rule, the security characteristics are exactly equivalent to those speciﬁed in
[RFC8955]

.

Alternatively, enforcing this optional rule for unicast routes (even if not enforced on Flow
Speciﬁcation NLRIs) achieves exactly the same security characteristics. The reason is that,
after all validations, the neighboring AS will be the same as the left-most AS in the AS-PATH
for the unicast route, and the left-most AS in the AS_PATH for the unicast route will be the
same as the left-most AS in the AS_PATH for the Flow Speciﬁcation NLRI. Therefore, the
neighboring AS will be the same as the left-most AS in the AS_PATH for the Flow
 states).
Speciﬁcation NLRI (as the original AS_PATH validation rule in

[RFC8955]

Note, however, that not checking the full AS_PATH allows any rogue or misconﬁgured AS the
ability to originate undesired Flow Speciﬁcations. This is a BGP security threat, already
present in

, but out of the scope of this document.

[RFC8955]

Using the new rule to validate a Flow Speciﬁcation route received from a peer belonging to
the same Local Domain is out of the scope of this document. Note that although it's possible,
its utility is dubious. Although it is conceivable that a router in the same Local Domain could
send a rogue update, only eBGP risk is considered within this document (in the same spirit as
the aforementioned AS_PATH validation in

[RFC4271]

).

5.  Topology Considerations

 indicates that the originator may refer to the originator path attribute

[RFC8955]
(ORIGINATOR_ID) or (if the attribute is not present) the transport address of the peer from which
the BGP speaker received the update. If the latter applies, a network should be designed so it has
a congruent topology amongst unicast routes and Flow Speciﬁcation routes. By congruent
topology, it is understood that the two routes (i.e., the Flow Speciﬁcation route and its best-match
unicast route) are learned from the same peer across the AS. That would likely not be true, for
instance, if some peers only negotiated one Address Family or if each Address Family peering
had a diﬀerent set of policies. Failing to have a congruent topology would result in step (b.1) of
the validation procedure to fail.

With the additional second condition (b.2) in the validation procedure, non-congruent topologies
are supported within the Local Domain if the Flow Speciﬁcation is originated within the Local
Domain.

Explanation:

Consider the following scenarios of a non-congruent topology without the second condition
(b.2) being added to the validation procedure:

1.

Consider a topology with two BGP speakers with two iBGP peering sessions between them,
one for unicast and one for Flow Speciﬁcation. This is a non-congruent topology. Let's
assume that the ORIGINATOR_ID attribute was not received (e.g., a route reﬂector
receiving routes from its clients). In this case, the Flow Speciﬁcation validation procedure
will fail because of the ﬁrst condition (b.1).

Uttaro, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9117

Revised Flowspec Validation Procedure

August 2021

2.

Consider a confederation of ASes with local AS X and local AS Y (both belonging to the
same Local Domain), and a given BGP speaker X1 inside local AS X. The ORIGINATOR_ID
attribute is not advertised when propagating routes across local ASes. Let's assume the
Flow Speciﬁcation route is received from peer Y1 and the best-match unicast route is
received from peer Y2. Both peers belong to local AS Y. The Flow Speciﬁcation validation
procedure will also fail because of the ﬁrst condition (b.1).

Consider now that the second condition (b.2) is added to the validation procedure. In the
scenarios above, if Flow Speciﬁcations are originated in the same Local Domain, the
AS_PATH will be empty or contain only an AS_CONFED_SEQUENCE segment. Condition (b.2)
will evaluate to true. Therefore, using the second condition (b.2), as deﬁned by this
document, guarantees that the overall validation procedure will pass. Thus, non-congruent
topologies are supported if the Flow Speciﬁcation is originated in the same Local Domain.

Flow Speciﬁcations originated in a diﬀerent Local Domain sill need a congruent topology.
The reason is that in a non-congruent topology, the second condition (b.2) evaluates to false
and only the ﬁrst condition (b.1) is evaluated.

6.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

7.  Security Considerations

This document updates the route feasibility validation procedures for Flow Speciﬁcations
learned from iBGP peers and through route servers. This change is in line with the procedures
 and, thus, security characteristics remain essentially equivalent to the
described in
existing security properties of BGP unicast routing, except as detailed below.

[RFC8955]

The security considerations discussed in

[RFC8955]

 apply to this speciﬁcation as well.

) again

[RFC8955]

Section 6.3 of [RFC4271]

). If that original rule is not enforced for Flow Speciﬁcation, it

 (Section 4.2) for Flow Speciﬁcation Address Family (the rule is no longer mandatory as

This document makes the original AS_PATH validation rule (
OPTIONAL
had been speciﬁed by
may introduce some new security risks. A speaker in AS X peering with a route server could
advertise a rogue Flow Speciﬁcation route whose ﬁrst AS in AS_PATH was Y. Assume Y is the ﬁrst
AS in the AS_PATH of the best-match unicast route. When the route server advertises the Flow
Speciﬁcation to a speaker in AS Z, it will be validated by that speaker. This risk is impossible to
prevent if the Flow Speciﬁcation route is received from a route server peer. If conﬁguration (or
other means beyond the scope of this document) indicates that the peer is not a route server, that
optional rule
in the Revision of AS_PATH Validation section, just enforcing it in one of those Address Families is
enough). If the indication is that the peer is not a route server or there is no conclusive
indication, that optional rule

 be enforced for unicast and/or for Flow Speciﬁcation routes (as discussed

 be enforced.

SHOULD NOT

SHOULD

Uttaro, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9117

Revised Flowspec Validation Procedure

August 2021

A route server itself may be in a good position to enforce the AS_PATH validation rule described
in the previous paragraph. If it is known that a route server is not peering with any other route
server, it can enforce the AS_PATH validation rule across all its peers.

BGP updates learned from iBGP peers are considered trusted, so the Traﬃc Flow Speciﬁcations
contained in BGP updates are also considered trusted. Therefore, it is not required to validate
that the originator of an intra-domain Traﬃc Flow Speciﬁcation matches the originator of the
best-match unicast route for the destination preﬁx embedded in that Flow Speciﬁcation. Note
that this trustworthiness consideration is not absolute and the new possibility that an iBGP
speaker could send a rogue Flow Speciﬁcation is introduced.

The changes in Section 4.1 don't aﬀect the validation procedures for eBGP-learned routes.

It's worth mentioning that allowing (or making operationally feasible) Flow Speciﬁcations to
originate within the Local Domain makes the network overall more secure. Flow Speciﬁcations
can be originated more readily during attacks and improve the stability and security of the
network.

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC4271]

[RFC4760]

[RFC5065]

[RFC7947]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Rekhter, Y., Ed. Li, T., Ed.
(BGP-4)" RFC 4271 DOI 10.17487/RFC4271
editor.org/info/rfc4271>

, and

,

,

.

,
, January 2006,

S. Hares, Ed. "A Border Gateway Protocol 4

<https://www.rfc-

,

,
Bates, T. Chandra, R. Katz, D.
BGP-4" RFC 4760 DOI 10.17487/RFC4760
editor.org/info/rfc4760>

, and

,

,

.

Y. Rekhter "Multiprotocol Extensions for

,

, January 2007,

<https://www.rfc-

,
,

,
Traina, P. McPherson, D.
for BGP" RFC 5065 DOI 10.17487/RFC5065
editor.org/info/rfc5065>

, and

,

.

J. Scudder "Autonomous System Confederations

, August 2007,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,
Jasinska, E. Hilliard, N. Raszuk, R.
,
Route Server" RFC 7947 DOI 10.17487/RFC7947
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7947>

, and

.

,

N. Bakker "Internet Exchange BGP
, September 2016,
<https://

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

Uttaro, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9117

Revised Flowspec Validation Procedure

August 2021

[RFC8955]

,

Loibl, C. Hares, S. Raszuk, R. McPherson, D.
,
Flow Speciﬁcation Rules" RFC 8955 DOI 10.17487/RFC8955
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8955>

, and

,

,

.

,

M. Bacher "Dissemination of

,
, December 2020,

8.2.  Informative References

[CONFED-SET]

[RFC6472]

,

,

Kumari, W. Sriram, K. Hannachi, L.
AS_CONFED_SET in BGP" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-idr-
deprecate-as-set-confed-set-05
html/draft-ietf-idr-deprecate-as-set-confed-set-05>

, 12 March 2021,

J. Haas "Deprecation of AS_SET and

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/

, and

,

,

,

.

 and

K. Sriram "Recommendation for Not Using AS_SET and

Kumari, W.
,
AS_CONFED_SET in BGP" BCP 172 RFC 6472 DOI 10.17487/RFC6472
2011,

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6472>

.

,

, December

Acknowledgements

Waqas
The authors would like to thank
 for his direction on this work as well as
Alam Keyur Patel Robert Raszuk Eric Rosen Shyam Sethuram Susan Hares Alvaro Retana
,
,
John Scudder
 for their review and comments.

Han Nguyen
,

,

,

,

, and

Authors' Addresses

James Uttaro
AT&T
200 S. Laurel Ave
Middletown NJ 07748
,
United States of America
Email:

 ju1738@att.com

Juan Alcaide
Cisco
Research Triangle Park
7100 Kit Creek Road
Morrisville NC 27709
,
United States of America
Email:

 jalcaide@cisco.com

Clarence Filsﬁls
Cisco
Email:

 cf@cisco.com

Uttaro, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9117

Revised Flowspec Validation Procedure

August 2021

David Smith
Cisco
111 Wood Ave South
Iselin NJ 08830
United States of America
Email:

 djsmith@cisco.com

,

Pradosh Mohapatra
Sproute Networks
Email:

 mpradosh@yahoo.com

Uttaro, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

