Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9815
Standards Track
July 2025
2070-1721
K. Patel
Arrcus, Inc.

A. Lindem
Arrcus, Inc.

S. Zandi W. Henderickx

Nokia

RFC 9815
BGP Link State (BGP-LS) Shortest Path First (SPF)
Routing

Abstract

Many Massively Scaled Data Centers (MSDCs) have converged on simplified Layer 3 (L3) routing.
Furthermore, requirements for operational simplicity have led many of these MSDCs to
converge on BGP as their single routing protocol for both fabric routing and Data Center
Interconnect (DCI) routing. This document describes extensions to BGP for use with BGP Link
State (BGP-LS) distribution and the Shortest Path First (SPF) algorithm. In doing this, it allows
BGP to be efficiently used as both the underlay protocol and the overlay protocol in MSDCs.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9815
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9815

BGP-LS SPF Routing

July 2025

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Terminology

1.2.  Requirements Language

1.3.  BGP Shortest Path First (SPF) Motivation

1.4.  Document Overview

2.  Base BGP Protocol Relationship

3.  BGP Link State (BGP-LS) Relationship

4.  BGP SPF Peering Models

4.1.  BGP Single-Hop Peering on Network Node Connections

4.2.  BGP Peering Between Directly Connected Nodes

4.3.  BGP Peering in Route-Reflector or Controller Topology

5.  BGP Shortest Path First (SPF) Routing Protocol Extensions

5.1.  BGP-LS-SPF SAFI

5.1.1.  BGP-LS-SPF NLRI TLVs

5.1.2.  BGP-LS Attribute

5.2.  Extensions to BGP-LS

5.2.1.  Node NLRI Usage

5.2.1.1.  BGP-LS-SPF Node NLRI Attribute SPF Status TLV

5.2.2.  Link NLRI Usage

5.2.2.1.  BGP-LS Link NLRI Address Family Link Descriptor TLV

5.2.2.2.  BGP-LS-SPF Link NLRI Attribute SPF Status TLV

5.2.3.  IPv4/IPv6 Prefix NLRI Usage

5.2.3.1.  BGP-LS-SPF Prefix NLRI Attribute SPF Status TLV

5.2.4.  BGP-LS Attribute Sequence Number TLV

5.3.  BGP-LS-SPF End of RIB (EoR) Marker

4

4

5

5

6

6

7

7

7

8

8

9

9

9

9

10

10

10

11

12

13

14

14

15

15

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9815

BGP-LS SPF Routing

July 2025

5.4.  BGP Next-Hop Information

6.  Decision Process with the SPF Algorithm

6.1.  BGP SPF NLRI Selection

6.1.1.  BGP Self-Originated NLRI

6.2.  Dual-Stack Support

6.3.  SPF Calculation Based on BGP-LS-SPF NLRI

6.4.  IPv4/IPv6 Unicast Address Family Interaction

6.5.  NLRI Advertisement

6.5.1.  Link/Prefix Failure Convergence

6.5.2.  Node Failure Convergence

7.  Error Handling

7.1.  Processing of BGP-LS-SPF TLVs

7.2.  Processing of BGP-LS-SPF NLRIs

7.3.  Processing of BGP-LS Attributes

7.4.  BGP-LS-SPF Link State Database Synchronization

8.  IANA Considerations

8.1.  BGP-LS-SPF Allocation in the SAFI Values Registry

8.2.  BGP-LS-SPF Assignments in the BGP-LS NLRI and Attribute TLVs Registry

8.3.  BGP-LS-SPF Node NLRI Attribute SPF Status TLV Values Registry

8.4.  BGP-LS-SPF Link NLRI Attribute SPF Status TLV Values Registry

8.5.  BGP-LS-SPF Prefix NLRI Attribute SPF Status TLV Values Registry

8.6.  Assignment in the BGP Error (Notification) Codes Registry

9.  Security Considerations

10. Management Considerations

10.1.  Configuration

10.2.  Link Metric Configuration

10.3.  Unnumbered Link Configuration

10.4.  Adjacency End-of-RIB (EOR) Marker Requirement

10.5.  backoff-config

10.6.  BGP-LS-SPF NLRI Readvertisement Delay

16

16

17

17

18

18

21

22

22

22

23

23

24

24

24

24

24

25

25

26

26

26

27

27

27

28

28

28

28

28

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9815

BGP-LS SPF Routing

July 2025

10.7.  Operational Data

10.8.  BGP-LS-SPF Address Family Session Isolation

11. References

11.1.  Normative References

11.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

29

29

29

29

31

31

32

33

Many Massively Scaled Data Centers (MSDCs) have converged on simplified Layer 3 (L3) routing.
Furthermore, requirements for operational simplicity has led many of these MSDCs to converge
[RFC4271]
on BGP
Interconnect (DCI) routing
[RFC9552]
leverages BGP-LS
Gateway Protocols (IGPs).

[RFC7938]
 and the Shortest Path First (SPF) algorithm used by Interior

 as their single routing protocol for both fabric routing and Data Center

. This document describes an alternative solution that

This document leverages both the BGP protocol
The relationship as well as the scope of changes are described in Sections 2 and 3, respectively.
The modifications to
underlay unicast Subsequent Address Family Identifiers (SAFIs). Operations for any other BGP
SAFIs are outside the scope of this document.

 for BGP SPF described herein only apply to IPv4 and IPv6 as

 and BGP-LS extensions

[RFC9552]
.

[RFC4271]

[RFC4271]

This solution avails the benefits of both BGP and SPF-based IGPs. These include TCP-based flow-
control, no periodic link-state refresh, and completely incremental Network Layer Reachability
Information (NLRI) advertisement. These advantages can reduce the overhead in MSDCs where
there is a high degree of Equal-Cost Multipath (ECMP) load balancing. Additionally, using an SPF-
based computation can support fast convergence and the computation of Loop-Free Alternatives
[RFC5286]
(LFAs). The SPF LFA extensions defined in
calculations. However, the details are specific to implementation and are out of scope for this
document. Furthermore, a BGP-based solution lends itself to multiple peering models including
those incorporating route reflectors

 can be similarly applied to BGP SPF

 or controllers.

[RFC4456]

1.1.  Terminology

This specification reuses terms defined in

Section 1.1 of [RFC4271]
.

Additionally, this document introduces the following terms:

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9815

BGP-LS SPF Routing

July 2025

BGP SPF Routing Domain:

A set of BGP routers under a single administrative domain that

exchange link-state information using the BGP-LS-SPF SAFI and compute routes using BGP
SPF, as described herein.

BGP-LS-SPF NLRI:

The BGP-LS Network Layer Reachability Information (NLRI) that is being

advertised in the BGP-LS-SPF SAFI (Section 5.1) and is being used for BGP SPF route
computation.

Dijkstra Algorithm:

An algorithm for computing the shortest path from a given node in a graph

to every other node in the graph.

Prefix NLRI:

In the context of BGP SPF, this term refers to the IPv4 Topology Prefix NLRI and/or

the IPv6 Topology Prefix NLRI.

1.2.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

1.3.  BGP Shortest Path First (SPF) Motivation

[RFC7938]

 already describes how BGP could be used as the sole routing protocol in an

Given that
MSDC, one might question the motivation for defining an alternative BGP deployment model
when a mature solution exists. For both alternatives, BGP offers the operational benefits of a
single routing protocol as opposed to the combination of an IGP for the underlay and BGP as the
overlay. However, BGP SPF offers some unique advantages above and beyond standard BGP
path-vector routing. With BGP SPF, the simple single-hop peering model recommended in
5.2.1 of [RFC7938]

 is augmented with peering models requiring fewer BGP sessions.

Section

A primary advantage is that all BGP speakers in the BGP SPF routing domain have a complete
view of the topology. This allows support for ECMP, IP fast-reroute (e.g., Loop-Free Alternatives
(LFAs)
without advertisement of additional BGP paths

, Shared Risk Link Groups (SRLGs)

, and other routing enhancements

 or other extensions.

[RFC4202]

[RFC7911]

[RFC5286]

With the BGP SPF Decision Process as defined in Section 6, NLRI changes can be disseminated
throughout the BGP routing domain much more rapidly. The added advantage of BGP using TCP
for reliable transport leverages TCP's inherent flow-control and guaranteed in-order delivery.

Another primary advantage is a potential reduction in NLRI advertisement. With standard BGP
path-vector routing, a single link failure may impact hundreds or thousands of prefixes and
result in the withdrawal or readvertisement of the attendant NLRI. With BGP SPF, only the BGP
speakers originating the Link NLRI need to withdraw the corresponding BGP-LS-SPF Link NLRI.
Additionally, the changed NLRI is advertised immediately as opposed to normal BGP where it is
only advertised after the best route selection. These advantages provide NLRI dissemination
throughout the BGP SPF routing domain with efficiencies similar to link-state protocols.

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9815

BGP-LS SPF Routing

July 2025

With controller and route-reflector peering models, BGP SPF advertisement and distributed
computation require a minimal number of sessions and copies of the NLRI as only the latest
version of the NLRI from the originator is required (see Section 4). Given that verification of
whether or not to advertise a link (with a BGP-LS-SPF Link NLRI) is done outside of BGP, each
BGP speaker only needs as many sessions and copies of the NLRI as required for redundancy.
Additionally, a controller could inject topology (i.e., BGP-LS-SPF NLRI) that is learned outside the
BGP SPF routing domain.

Given that BGP-LS NLRI is already defined
LS-SPF NLRI.

[RFC9552]

, this functionality can be reused for BGP-

Another advantage of BGP SPF is that both IPv6 and IPv4 can be supported using the BGP-LS-SPF
SAFI with the same BGP-LS-SPF Link NLRIs. In many MSDC fabrics, the IPv4 and IPv6 topologies
are congruent (refer to Section 5.2.2). However, beyond the scope of this document, BGP-LS-SPF
NLRI multi-topology extensions could be defined to support separate IPv4, IPv6, unicast, and
multicast topologies while sharing the same NLRI.

Finally, the BGP SPF topology can be used as an underlay for other BGP SAFIs (using the existing
model) and obtain all the above advantages.

1.4.  Document Overview

[RFC4271]

 and Section 3 defining the BGP Link State (BGP-LS) extensions

. The BGP peering models as well as their respective trade-offs are then discussed in

This document begins with Section 2 defining the precise relationship that BGP SPF has with the
base BGP protocol
[RFC9552]
Section 4. The remaining sections, which make up the bulk of the document, define the protocol
enhancements necessary to support BGP SPF including BGP-LS extensions (Section 5),
replacement of the base BGP Decision Process with the SPF computation (Section 6), and BGP
SPF error handling (Section 7).

2.  Base BGP Protocol Relationship

With the exception of the Decision Process, BGP SPF extensions leverage the BGP protocol
[RFC4271]
 without change. This includes the BGP protocol Finite State Machine, BGP messages
and their encodings, the processing of BGP messages, BGP attributes and path attributes, BGP
NLRI encodings, and any error handling defined in

[RFC4271] [RFC4760]
,

[RFC7606]
.

, and

Due to changes in the Decision Process, there are mechanisms and encodings that are no longer
applicable. Unless explicitly specified in the context of BGP SPF, all optional path attributes
 be accepted, validated, and
SHOULD NOT
propagated consistently with the BGP protocol

 be advertised. If received, all path attributes

, even if not needed by BGP SPF.

[RFC4271]

MUST

 defines the Decision Process that is used to select routes for subsequent

Section 9.1 of [RFC4271]
advertisement by applying the policies in the local Policy Information Base (PIB) to the routes
stored in its Adj-RIBs-In. The output of the Decision Process is the set of routes that is announced
by a BGP speaker to its peers. These selected routes are stored by a BGP speaker in the speaker's
Adj-RIBs-Out, according to policy.

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9815

BGP-LS SPF Routing

July 2025

The BGP SPF extension fundamentally changes the Decision Process, as described herein.
Specifically:

1.

BGP advertisements are readvertised to neighbors immediately without waiting or
dependence on the route computation, as specified in phase 3 of the base BGP Decision
Process. Multiple peering models are supported, as specified in Section 4.

2.

Determining the degree of preference for BGP routes, as described in phase 1 of the base
BGP Decision Process, is replaced with the mechanisms in Section 6.1 for the SPF calculation.

3.

Phase 2 of the base BGP protocol Decision Process is replaced with the SPF algorithm, also
known as the Dijkstra algorithm.

3.  BGP Link State (BGP-LS) Relationship

[RFC9552]
 describes a mechanism by which link-state and Traffic Engineering (TE) information
can be collected from networks and shared with external entities using BGP. This is achieved by
defining NLRIs that are advertised using the BGP-LS AFI. The BGP-LS extensions defined in
[RFC9552]
LS SAFI, the BGP-LS-SPF SAFI (Section 5.1) is introduced to ensure backward compatibility for
BGP-LS SAFI usage.

 make use of the Decision Process defined in

. Rather than reusing the BGP-

[RFC4271]

[RFC9552]

 is shared between the BGP-LS SAFI

The "BGP-LS NLRI and Attribute TLVs" registry
and the BGP-LS-SPF SAFI. However, the TLVs defined in this document may not be applicable to
Section 5.1 of [RFC9552]
the BGP-LS SAFI. As specified in
unexpected TLVs is required so that the NLRI or BGP-LS Attribute will not be considered
malformed (
are described in Section 5.2. By default, the usage of other BGP-LS TLVs or extensions are
ignored for the BGP-LS-SPF SAFI. However, this doesn't preclude the usage specification of these
TLVs for the BGP-LS-SPF SAFI in future documents.

). The list of BGP-LS TLVs applicable to the BGP-LS-SPF SAFI

, the presence of unknown or

Section 5.2 of [RFC9552]

4.  BGP SPF Peering Models

Depending on the topology, scaling, capabilities of the BGP speakers, and redundancy
requirements, various peering models are supported. The only requirement is that all BGP
speakers in the BGP SPF routing domain adhere to this specification.

The choice of the deployment model is up to the operator and their requirements and policies.
Deployment model choice is out of scope for this document and is discussed in
. The
subsections below describe several BGP SPF deployment models. However, this doesn't preclude
other deployment models.

[RFC9816]

4.1.  BGP Single-Hop Peering on Network Node Connections

The simplest peering model is the one where External BGP (EBGP) single-hop sessions are
established over direct point-to-point links interconnecting the nodes in the BGP SPF routing
domain. Once the single-hop BGP session has been established and the Multiprotocol Extensions

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9815

BGP-LS SPF Routing

July 2025

Capability with the BGP-LS-SPF AFI/SAFI
session, then the link is considered up and available from a BGP SPF perspective, and the
corresponding BGP-LS-SPF Link NLRI is advertised.

 has been exchanged for the corresponding

[RFC4760]

An End-of-RIB (EoR) marker (Section 5.3) for the BGP-LS-SPF SAFI
prior to advertising the BGP-LS-SPF Link NLRI for the corresponding link to that peer. When
required, the default is to wait indefinitely for the EoR marker prior to advertising the BGP-LS-
SPF Link NLRI. Refer to Section 10.4.

 be required from a peer

MAY

A failure to consistently configure the use of the EoR marker can result in transient micro-loops
and dropped traffic due to incomplete forwarding state.

If the session goes down, the corresponding Link NLRIs are withdrawn. Topologically, this would
[RFC7938]
be equivalent to the peering model in
the data center switch fabric. The content of the Link NLRI is described in Section 5.2.2.

 where there is a BGP session on every link in

4.2.  BGP Peering Between Directly Connected Nodes

 is

[RFC5880]

RECOMMENDED

In this model, BGP speakers peer with all directly connected nodes but the sessions may be
between loopback addresses (i.e., two-hop sessions), and the direct connection discovery and
liveness detection for the interconnecting links are independent of the BGP protocol. The
Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD) protocol
detection. Usage of other liveness connection mechanisms is outside the scope of this document.
Consequently, there is a single BGP session even if there are multiple direct connections between
BGP speakers. The BGP-LS-SPF Link NLRI is advertised as long as a BGP session has been
established, the BGP-LS-SPF AFI/SAFI capability has been exchanged
operational as determined using liveness detection mechanisms, and, optionally, the EoR marker
has been received as described in Section 5.3. This is much like the previous peering model,
except peering is between loopback addresses and the interconnecting links can be
unnumbered. However, since there are BGP sessions between every directly connected node in
the BGP SPF routing domain, there is a reduction in BGP sessions when there are parallel links
between nodes. Hence, this peering model is
Section 4.1.

 over the single-hop peering model

RECOMMENDED

 for liveness

, the link is

[RFC4760]

4.3.  BGP Peering in Route-Reflector or Controller Topology

In this model, BGP speakers peer solely with one or more route reflectors
controllers. As in the previous model, direct connection discovery and liveness detection for
those links in the BGP SPF routing domain are done outside of the BGP protocol. BGP-LS-SPF
Link NLRI is advertised as long as the corresponding link is considered up and available as per
).
the chosen liveness detection mechanism (thus, the BFD protocol
RECOMMENDED

[RFC5880]

[RFC4456]

 or

 is

This peering model, known as "sparse peering", allows for fewer BGP sessions and,
consequently, fewer instances of the same NLRI received from multiple peers. Ideally, the route
reflectors or controller BGP sessions would be on directly connected links to avoid dependence

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9815

BGP-LS SPF Routing

July 2025

on another routing protocol for session connectivity. However, multi-hop peering is not
precluded. The number of BGP sessions is dependent on the redundancy requirements and the
stability of the BGP sessions.

The controller may use constraints to determine when to advertise BGP-LS-SPF NLRI for BGP-LS
peers. For example, a controller may delay advertisement of a link between two peers the until
the EoR marker Section 5.3 has been received from both BGP peers and the BGP-LS Link NLRI
for the link(s) between the two nodes has been received from both BGP peers.

5.  BGP Shortest Path First (SPF) Routing Protocol Extensions

5.1.  BGP-LS-SPF SAFI

This document introduces the BGP-LS-SPF SAFI with a value of 80. The SPF-based Decision
Process (Section 6) applies only to the BGP-LS-SPF SAFI and
 be used with other
combinations of the BGP-LS AFI (16388). In order for two BGP speakers to exchange BGP-LS-SPF
NLRI, they
 to ensure that they
are both capable of properly processing such an NLRI. This is done with AFI 16388 / SAFI 80. The
BGP-LS-SPF SAFI is used to advertise IPv4 and IPv6 prefix information in a format facilitating an
SPF-based Decision Process.

 exchange the Multiprotocol Extensions Capability

[RFC4760]

MUST NOT

MUST

5.1.1.  BGP-LS-SPF NLRI TLVs

All the TLVs defined for BGP-LS
SAFI to describe links, nodes, and prefixes comprising BGP SPF Link State Database (LSDB)
information.

 are applicable and can be used with the BGP-LS-SPF

[RFC9552]

 be encoded as specified in
The NLRI and comprising TLVs
 are considered mandatory for the BGP-LS-SPF SAFI as well.
specified as mandatory in
If a mandatory TLV is not present, the NLRI
 be used in the BGP SPF route calculation.
MUST NOT
All the other TLVs are considered as optional TLVs. Documents specifying usage of optional TLVs
for BGP SPF

 address backward compatibility.

MUST
[RFC9552]

Section 5.1 of [RFC9552]

. TLVs

MUST

5.1.2.  BGP-LS Attribute

. In other words, all the TLVs used in the BGP-LS Attribute of the BGP-LS AFI are

The BGP-LS Attribute of the BGP-LS-SPF SAFI uses the exact same format as the BGP-LS AFI
[RFC9552]
applicable and are used for the BGP-LS Attribute of the BGP-LS-SPF SAFI. This attribute is an
optional, non-transitive BGP attribute that is used to advertise link, node, and prefix properties
and attributes. The BGP-LS Attribute is a set of TLVs.

All the TLVs defined for the BGP-LS Attribute
BGP-LS-SPF SAFI to advertise link, node, and prefix properties and attributes.

[RFC9552]

 are applicable and can be used with the

The BGP-LS Attribute may potentially be quite large depending on the amount of link-state
information associated with a single BGP-LS-SPF NLRI. The BGP specification
mandates a maximum BGP message size of 4096 octets. It is
[RFC8654]
implementation support

 in order to accommodate a greater amount of information

RECOMMENDED

[RFC4271]

 that an

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9815

BGP-LS SPF Routing

July 2025

MUST

 ensure that they limit the TLVs included in the

within the BGP-LS Attribute. BGP speakers
BGP-LS Attribute to ensure that a BGP UPDATE message for a single BGP-LS-SPF NLRI does not
cross the maximum limit for a BGP message. The determination of the types of TLVs to be
included by the BGP speaker originating the attribute is outside the scope of this document. If,
due to the limits on the maximum size of an UPDATE message, a single route doesn't fit into the
message, the BGP speaker
error locally

 advertise the route to its peer and

 choose to log an

[RFC4271]
.

MUST NOT

MAY

5.2.  Extensions to BGP-LS

 describes a mechanism by which link-state and TE information can be collected from

[RFC9552]
IGPs and shared with external components using the BGP protocol. It describes both the
definition of the BGP-LS NLRI that advertise links, nodes, and prefixes comprising IGP link-state
information and the definition of a BGP path attribute (BGP-LS Attribute) that carries link, node,
and prefix properties and attributes, such as the link and prefix metric or auxiliary Router-IDs of
nodes, etc. This document extends the usage of BGP-LS NLRI for the purpose of BGP SPF
calculation via advertisement in the BGP-LS-SPF SAFI.

The protocol identifier specified in the Protocol-ID field
advertised NLRI. For Node NLRI and Link NLRI, the specified Protocol-ID
protocol (4). Node or Link NLRI with a Protocol-ID other than the direct protocol is considered
malformed. For Prefix NLRI, the specified Protocol-ID
and Remote Node Descriptors for all NLRI
MUST
and the Autonomous System (TLV 512) number
 is not applicable.
517)

 be the origin of the prefix. The Local
[RFC9086]
. The BGP Confederation Member (TLV

 include the BGP Router-ID (TLV 516)
[RFC9552]

 represents the origin of the

 be the direct

[RFC9552]

[RFC9086]

MUST

MUST

5.2.1.  Node NLRI Usage

The Node NLRI
domain.

MUST

 be advertised unconditionally by all routers in the BGP SPF routing

5.2.1.1.  BGP-LS-SPF Node NLRI Attribute SPF Status TLV

A BGP-LS Attribute SPF Status TLV of the BGP-LS-SPF Node NLRI is defined to indicate the status
of the node with respect to the BGP SPF calculation. This is used to rapidly take a node out of
service (refer to Section 6.5.2) or to indicate that the node is not to be used for transit (i.e., non-
local) traffic (refer to Section 6.3). If the SPF Status TLV is not included with the Node NLRI, the
node is considered to be up and is available for transit traffic. A single TLV type is shared by the
Node, Link, and Prefix NLRI. The TLV type is 1184.

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   Type (1184)                 |       Length (1 Octet)        |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| SPF Status    |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9815

BGP-LS SPF Routing

July 2025

Value Description

0

1

2

Reserved

Node unreachable with respect to BGP SPF

Node does not support transit with respect to BGP SPF

3-254

Unassigned

255

Reserved

Table 1: Node NLRI Attribute Status Values

If a BGP speaker received the Node NLRI but the SPF Status TLV is not received, then any
previously received SPF status information is considered as implicitly withdrawn, and the NLRI
is propagated to other BGP speakers. A BGP speaker receiving a BGP Update containing an SPF
Status TLV in the BGP-LS Attribute
 be advertised to
other BGP speakers and
computation. An implementation
 log this condition for further analysis. If the SPF Status
TLV contains a reserved value (0 or 255), the TLV is considered malformed and is handled as
described in Section 7.1.

 with an unknown value
 ignore the Status TLV with an unknown value in the SPF

[RFC9552]

SHOULD

MUST

MAY

5.2.2.  Link NLRI Usage

The criteria for advertisement of Link NLRIs are discussed in Section 4.

Link NLRI is advertised with unique Local and Remote Node Descriptors dependent on the IP
addressing. For IPv4 links, the link's local IPv4 interface address (TLV 259) and remote IPv4
neighbor address (TLV 260) are used. For IPv6 links, the local IPv6 interface address (TLV 261)
and remote IPv6 neighbor address (TLV 262) are used (see
without global IPv6 addresses are considered unnumbered links and are handled as described
below. For links supporting both IPv4 and IPv6 addresses, both sets of descriptors
included in the same Link NLRI.

Section 5.2.2 of [RFC9552]

MAY

 be

). IPv6 links

MUST

For unnumbered links, the Link Local/Remote Identifiers (TLV 258) are used. The Link Remote
Identifier isn't normally exchanged in BGP, and discovering the Link Remote Identifier is beyond
the scope of this document. If the Link Remote Identifier is unknown, a Link Remote Identifier of
0
 be advertised. When 0 is advertised and there are parallel unnumbered links between a
pair of BGP speakers, there may be transient intervals where the BGP speakers don't agree on
which of the parallel unnumbered links are operational. For this reason, it is
RECOMMENDED
that the Link Remote Identifiers be known (e.g., discovered using alternate mechanisms or
configured) in the presence of parallel unnumbered links.

The link descriptors are described in Table 4 of
Link Descriptor TLV is defined to determine whether an unnumbered link can be used in the
IPv4 SPF, the IPv6, or both (refer to Section 5.2.2.1).

. Additionally, the Address Family (AF)

[RFC9552]

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9815

BGP-LS SPF Routing

July 2025

For a link to be used in SPF computation for a given address family, i.e., IPv4 or IPv6, both
routers connecting the link
be on the same subnet for numbered interfaces, or the Link Local/Remote Identifiers (Section 6.3)
must match for unnumbered interfaces).

 have matching addresses (i.e., router interface addresses must

MUST

 be advertised. If a BGP speaker receives a Link NLRI without an
MUST

The IGP Metric (TLV 1095)
MUST
IGP Metric attribute TLV, then it
 consider the received NLRI as malformed and is handled
as described in Section 7.1. The BGP SPF metric length is 4 octets. A metric is associated with the
output side of each router interface. This metric is configurable by the system administrator. The
lower the metric, the more likely the interface is to be used to forward data traffic. One possible
default for the metric would be to give each interface a metric of 1 making the SPF metric
effectively a hop count.

The usage of other link attribute TLVs is beyond the scope of this document.

5.2.2.1.  BGP-LS Link NLRI Address Family Link Descriptor TLV

For unnumbered links, the address family cannot be ascertained from the endpoint link
descriptors. Hence, the Address Family Link Descriptor TLV
Local/Remote Identifiers TLV for unnumbered links, so that the link can be used in the
respective address family SPF. If the Address Family Link Descriptor TLV is not present for an
unnumbered link, the link will not be used in the SPF computation for either address family. If
the Address Family Link Descriptor TLV is present for a numbered link, the link descriptor will
be ignored. If the Address Family Link Descriptor TLV contains an undefined value (3-254), the
link descriptor will be ignored. If the Address Family Link Descriptor TLV contains a reserved
value (0 or 255), the TLV is considered malformed and is handled as described in Section 7.1.

 be included with the Link

SHOULD

Note that an unnumbered link can be used for both the IPv4 and IPv6 SPF computation by
advertising separate Address Family Link Descriptor TLVs for IPv4 and IPv6.

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |   Type (1185)                 |      Length (1 Octet)         |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  | Address Family|
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Value

Description

0

1

2

Reserved

IPv4 Address Family

IPv6 Address Family

3-254

Undefined

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9815

BGP-LS SPF Routing

July 2025

Value

Description

255

Reserved

Table 2: Address Family Values

5.2.2.2.  BGP-LS-SPF Link NLRI Attribute SPF Status TLV

The BGP-LS Attribute SPF Status TLV of the BGP-LS-SPF Link NLRI is defined to indicate the
status of the link with respect to the BGP SPF calculation. This is used to expedite convergence
for link failures as discussed in Section 6.5.1. If the SPF Status TLV is not included with the Link
NLRI, the link is considered up and available. The SPF status is acted upon with the execution of
the next SPF calculation (Section 6.3). A single TLV type is shared by the Node, Link, and Prefix
NLRI. The TLV type is 1184.

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |   Type (1184)                 |      Length (1 Octet)         |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  | SPF Status    |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Value Description

0

1

Reserved

Link unreachable with respect to BGP SPF

2-254

Unassigned

255

Reserved

Table 3: Link NLRI Attribute Status Values

If a BGP speaker received the Link NLRI but the SPF Status TLV is not received, then any
previously received SPF status information is considered as implicitly withdrawn, and the NLRI
is propagated to other BGP speakers. A BGP speaker receiving a BGP Update containing an SPF
Status TLV in the BGP-LS Attribute
 be advertised to
other BGP speakers and
computation. An implementation
TLV contains a reserved value (0 or 255), the TLV is considered malformed and is handled as
described in Section 7.1.

 ignore the SPF Status TLV with an unknown value in the SPF

 log this information for further analysis. If the SPF Status

 with an unknown value

[RFC9552]

SHOULD

MUST

MAY

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9815

BGP-LS SPF Routing

July 2025

5.2.3.  IPv4/IPv6 Prefix NLRI Usage

An IPv4/IPv6 Prefix NLRI is advertised with a Local Node Descriptor and the prefix and length.
The Prefix Descriptor field includes IP Reachability Information (TLV 265) as described in
[RFC9552]
calculation. The IGP Route Tag (TLV 1153)
Attribute TLVs is beyond the scope of this document.

 be advertised to be considered for route
 be advertised. The usage of other BGP-LS

. The Prefix Metric (TLV 1155)

MUST

MAY

5.2.3.1.  BGP-LS-SPF Prefix NLRI Attribute SPF Status TLV

A BGP-LS Attribute SPF Status TLV of the BGP-LS-SPF Prefix NLRI is defined to indicate the status
of the prefix with respect to the BGP SPF calculation. This is used to expedite convergence for
prefix unreachability, as discussed in Section 6.5.1. If the SPF Status TLV is not included with the
Prefix NLRI, the prefix is considered reachable. A single TLV type is shared by the Node, Link,
and Prefix NLRI. The TLV type is 1184.

     0                   1                   2                   3
     0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |   Type (1184)                 |      Length (1 Octet)         |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    | SPF Status    |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Value Description

0

1

Reserved

Prefix unreachable with respect to BGP SPF

2-254

Unassigned

255

Reserved

Table 4: Prefix NLRI Attribute Status Values

If a BGP speaker received the Prefix NLRI but the SPF Status TLV is not received, then any
previously received SPF status information is considered as implicitly withdrawn, and the NLRI
is propagated to other BGP speakers. A BGP speaker receiving a BGP Update containing an SPF
 be advertised to
Status TLV in the BGP-LS Attribute
other BGP speakers and
computation. An implementation
TLV contains a reserved value (0 or 255), the TLV is considered malformed and is handled as
described in Section 7.1.

 with an unknown value
 ignore the Status TLV with an unknown value in the SPF

 log this information for further analysis. If the SPF Status

[RFC9552]

SHOULD

MUST

MAY

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9815

BGP-LS SPF Routing

July 2025

5.2.4.  BGP-LS Attribute Sequence Number TLV

A BGP-LS Attribute Sequence Number TLV of the BGP-LS-SPF NLRI types is defined to assure the
most recent version of a given NLRI is used in the SPF computation. The Sequence Number TLV
is mandatory for BGP-LS-SPF NLRI. The TLV type 1181 has been assigned by IANA. The BGP-LS
Attribute Sequence Number TLV contains an 8-octet sequence number. The usage of the
Sequence Number TLV is described in Section 6.1.

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |   Type (1181)                 |      Length (8 Octets)        |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                Sequence Number (High-Order 32 Bits)           |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                Sequence Number (Low-Order 32 Bits)            |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

 use available mechanisms to preserve the sequence number's strictly increasing property

Sequence Number: The 64-bit strictly increasing sequence number
every self-originated version of a BGP-LS-SPF NLRI. BGP speakers implementing this specification
MUST
for the deployed life of the BGP speaker (including cold restarts). One mechanism for
accomplishing this would be to use the high-order 32 bits of the sequence number as a wrap/
boot count that is incremented any time the BGP router loses its sequence number state or the
low-order 32 bits wrap.

 be incremented for

MUST

When incrementing the sequence number for each self-originated NLRI, the sequence number
should be treated as an unsigned 64-bit value. If the lower-order 32-bit value wraps, the higher-
order 32-bit value should be incremented and saved in non-volatile storage. If a BGP speaker
completely loses its sequence number state (e.g., the BGP speaker hardware is replaced or
experiences a cold start), the BGP NLRI selection rules (see Section 6.1) ensure convergence,
albeit not immediately.

If the Sequence Number TLV is not received, then the corresponding NLRI is considered as
malformed and
SHOULD
error for further analysis.

 be handled as described in Section 7.1. An implementation

MUST

 log an

5.3.  BGP-LS-SPF End of RIB (EoR) Marker

The usage of the EoR marker
other BGP SAFIs. Reception of the EoR marker
Link NLRI for a given peer.

[RFC4724]

 with the BGP-LS-SPF SAFI is somewhat different than the
 optionally be expected prior to advertising a

MAY

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9815

BGP-LS SPF Routing

July 2025

5.4.  BGP Next-Hop Information

The rules for setting the BGP Next-Hop in the MP_REACH_NLRI attribute
LS-SPF SAFI follow the rules in
extensions will locally compute the Local-RIB Next-Hop as a result of the SPF process. Hence, the
use of the MP_REACH_NLRI Next-Hop as a tiebreaker in the standard BGP path decision
processing is not applicable.

. All BGP peers that support SPF

Section 5.5 of [RFC9552]

 for the BGP-

[RFC4760]

6.  Decision Process with the SPF Algorithm

[RFC4271]

 takes place in three distinct phases. The Phase 1

The Decision Process described in
decision function of the Decision Process is responsible for calculating the degree of preference
for each route received from a BGP speaker's peer. The Phase 2 decision function is invoked on
completion of the Phase 1 decision function and is responsible for choosing the best route out of
all those available for each distinct destination and for installing each chosen route into the
Local-RIB. The combination of the Phase 1 and 2 decision functions is characterized as a Path
Vector algorithm.

The SPF-based Decision Process replaces the BGP Decision Process described in
BGP-LS-SPF NLRI always contains the Local Node Descriptor as described in Section 5.2, each
NLRI is uniquely originated by a single BGP speaker in the BGP SPF routing domain (the BGP
node matching the NLRI's Node Descriptors). Instances of the same NLRI originated by multiple
BGP speakers would be indicative of a configuration error or a masquerading attack (refer to
Section 9). These selected Node NLRIs and their Link/Prefix NLRIs are used to build a directed
graph during the SPF computation as described below. The best routes for BGP prefixes are
installed in the RIB as a result of the SPF process.

[RFC4271]

. Since

MAY

When BGP-LS-SPF NLRI is received, all that is required is to determine whether it is the most
recent by examining the Node-ID and sequence number as described in Section 6.1. If the
received NLRI has changed, it is advertised to other BGP-LS-SPF peers. If the attributes have
changed (other than the sequence number), a BGP SPF calculation is triggered. However, a
changed NLRI
Note that the BGP MinASOriginationIntervalTimer
 timer is not applicable to the BGP-
LS-SPF SAFI. The MinRouteAdvertisementIntervalTimer is applicable with a suggested default of
5 seconds consistent with Internal BGP (IBGP) (refer to
). The scheduling
of the SPF calculation, as described in Section 6.3, is an implementation and/or configuration
matter. Scheduling
in

 be advertised immediately to other peers and prior to any SPF calculation.
[RFC4271]

 be dampened consistent with the SPF Back-Off Delay algorithm specified

Section 10 of [RFC4271]

[RFC8405]
.

MAY

The Phase 3 decision function of the Decision Process
normal SPF operation, a BGP speaker
the BGP-LS-SPF AFI/SAFI and install the changed routes in the GLOBAL-RIB. The only exceptions
are unchanged NLRIs or stale NLRIs, i.e., an NLRI received with a less recent (numerically
smaller) sequence number.

 advertise the changed NLRIs to all BGP peers with

 is also simplified because under

[RFC4271]

MUST

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9815

BGP-LS SPF Routing

July 2025

6.1.  BGP SPF NLRI Selection

For all BGP-LS-SPF NLRIs, the selection rules for Phase 1 of the BGP Decision Process (see
9.1.1 of [RFC4271]

) no longer apply.

Section

1.

NLRIs self-originated from directly connected BGP SPF peers are preferred. This condition
can be determined by comparing the BGP Identifiers in the received Local Node Descriptor
and the BGP OPEN message for an active BGP session. This rule assures that a stale NLRI is
updated even if a BGP SPF router loses its sequence number state due to a cold start. Note
that once the BGP session goes down, the NLRI received is no longer considered as being
from a directly connected BGP SPF peer.

2.

Consistent with base BGP
same NLRI received from that peer. Coupled with rule #1, this will ensure that any stale
NLRI in the BGP SPF routing domain will be updated.

, an NLRI received from a peer will always replace the

[RFC4271]

3.

The NLRI with the most recent Sequence Number TLV, i.e., the highest sequence number is
selected.

4.

The NLRI received from the BGP speaker with the numerically larger BGP Identifier is
preferred.

When a BGP speaker completely loses its sequence number state, e.g., due to a cold start, or in
the unlikely possibility that a 64-bit sequence number wraps, the BGP routing domain will still
converge. This is due to the fact that BGP speakers adjacent to the router always accept self-
originated NLRIs from the associated speaker as more recent (rule #1). When a BGP speaker
reestablishes a connection with its peers, any existing sessions are taken down and stale NLRIs
are replaced. The adjacent BGP speakers update their NLRI advertisements and advertise to
their neighbors until the BGP routing domain has converged.

[RFC9552]

. These metrics are considered consistently across the BGP SPF

The modified SPF Decision Process performs an SPF calculation rooted at the local BGP speaker
using the metrics from the Link Attribute IGP Metric (TLV 1095) and the Prefix Attribute Prefix
Metric (TLV 1155)
domain. As a result, any other BGP attributes that would influence the BGP Decision Process
 including ORIGIN, MULTI_EXIT_DISC, and LOCAL_PREF attributes are
defined in
 is
ignored by the SPF algorithm. The Next Hop in the MP_REACH_NLRI attribute
discussed in Section 5.4. The AS_PATH and AS4_PATH attributes
used for loop detection
NLRIs.

. They are ignored during the SPF computation for BGP-LS-SPF

[RFC4760]
 are preserved and

[RFC6793]

[RFC4271]

[RFC4271]

6.1.1.  BGP Self-Originated NLRI

Nodes, Links, or Prefix NLRIs with Node Descriptors matching the local BGP speaker are
considered self-originated. When a self-originated NLRI is received and it doesn't match the local
node's NLRI content (including the sequence number), special processing is required.

•

If a self-originated NLRI is received and the sequence number is more recent (i.e., greater
than the local node's sequence number for the NLRI), the NLRI sequence number is

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9815

BGP-LS SPF Routing

July 2025

advanced to one greater than the received sequence number, and the NLRI is readvertised
to all peers.

•

If a self-originated NLRI is received and the sequence number is the same as the local node's
sequence number but the attributes differ, the NLRI sequence number is advanced to one
greater than the received sequence number, and the NLRI is readvertised to all peers.

The above actions are performed immediately when the first instance of a newer self-originated
NLRI is received. In this case, the newer instance is considered to be a stale instance that was
advertised by the local node prior to a restart where the NLRI state was lost. However, if
subsequent newer self-originated NLRI is received for the same Node, Link, or Prefix NLRI, the
readvertisement or withdrawal is delayed by BGP_LS_SPF_SELF_READVERTISEMENT_DELAY
(default 5) seconds since it is likely being advertised by a misconfigured or rogue BGP speaker
(refer to Section 9).

6.2.  Dual-Stack Support

The SPF-based Decision Process operates on Node, Link, and Prefix NLRIs that support both IPv4
and IPv6 addresses. Whether to run a single SPF computation or multiple SPF computations for
separate AFs is an implementation and/or policy matter. Normally, IPv4 next-hops are calculated
for IPv4 prefixes, and IPv6 next-hops are calculated for IPv6 prefixes.

6.3.  SPF Calculation Based on BGP-LS-SPF NLRI

This section details the BGP-LS-SPF local Routing Information Base (RIB) calculation. The router
uses BGP-LS-SPF Node, Link, and Prefix NLRIs to compute routes using the following algorithm.
This calculation yields the set of routes associated with the BGP SPF routing domain. A router
calculates the shortest-path tree using itself as the root. Optimizations to the BGP-LS-SPF
algorithm are possible but
ECMP routes. Weighted Unequal-Cost Multipath (UCMP) routes are out of scope.

 yield the same set of routes. The algorithm below supports

MUST

The following abstract data structures are defined in order to specify the algorithm.

Local Route Information Base (Local-RIB):

A routing table that contains reachability

information (i.e., next-hops) for all prefixes (both IPv4 and IPv6) as well as BGP-LS-SPF node
reachability. Implementations may choose to implement this with separate RIBs for each
address family and/or separate RIBs for prefix and node reachability.

Global Routing Information Base (GLOBAL-RIB):

The RIB containing the current routes that are

installed in the router's forwarding plane. This is commonly referred to in networking
parlance as "the RIB".

Link State Database (LSDB):
Link, and Prefix NLRIs.

A database of BGP-LS-SPF NLRIs that facilitate access to all Node,

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9815

BGP-LS SPF Routing

July 2025

Candidate List (CAN-LIST): A list of candidate Node NLRIs used during the BGP SPF calculation.
The list is sorted by the cost to reach the Node NLRI, with the Node NLRI that has the lowest
reachability cost at the head of the list. This facilitates the execution of the Dijkstra algorithm,
where the shortest paths between the local node and other nodes in the graph are computed.
The CAN-LIST is typically implemented as a heap but other data structures have been used.

The Dijkstra algorithm consists of the steps below:

1.

The current Local-RIB is invalidated, and the CAN-LIST is initialized to be empty. The Local-
RIB is rebuilt during the course of the SPF computation. The existing routing entries are
preserved for comparison to determine changes that need to be made to the GLOBAL-RIB in
Step 6. These routes are referred to as "stale routes".

2.

The cost of the Local-RIB Node route entry for the computing router is set to 0. The
computing router's Node NLRI is added to the CAN-LIST (which was previously initialized to
be empty in Step 1). The next-hop list is set to the internal loopback next-hop.

3.

The Node NLRI with the lowest cost is removed from the CAN-LIST for processing. If the BGP-
LS Attribute includes an SPF Status TLV (refer to Section 5.2.1.1) indicating the node is
unreachable, the Node NLRI is ignored and the next lowest-cost Node NLRI is selected from
the CAN-LIST. The Node corresponding to this NLRI is referred to as the "Current-Node". If
the CAN-LIST list is empty, the SPF calculation has completed and the algorithm proceeds to
Step 6.

4.

All the Prefix NLRIs with the same Local Node Descriptors as the Current-Node are
considered for installation. The next-hop(s) for these Prefix NLRIs are inherited from the
Current-Node. If the Current-Node is for the local BGP router, the next-hop for the prefix is a
direct next-hop. The cost for each prefix is the metric advertised in the Prefix Attribute
Prefix Metric (TLV 1155) added to the cost to reach the Current-Node. The following is done
for each Prefix NLRI (referred to as the "Current-Prefix"):

◦
If the BGP-LS Prefix Attribute includes an SPF Status TLV indicating the prefix is
unreachable, the Current-Prefix is considered unreachable, and the next Prefix NLRI is
examined in Step 4.
◦
If the Current-Prefix's corresponding prefix is in the Local-RIB and the Local-RIB metric is
less than the Current-Prefix's metric, the Current-Prefix does not contribute to the route,
and the next Prefix NLRI is examined in Step 4.
◦
If the Current-Prefix's corresponding prefix is not in the Local-RIB, the prefix is installed
with the Current-Node's next-hops installed as the Local-RIB route's next-hops. The Local-
RIB route metric is set to the sum of the cost for Current-Node and the Current-Prefix's
metric. If the IGP Route Tag (TLV 1153) is included in the Current-Prefix's NLRI Attribute,
the tag(s) is installed in the current Local-RIB route's tag(s).
◦
If the Current-Prefix's corresponding prefix is in the Local-RIB and the cost is less than the
Local-RIB route's metric, the prefix is installed with the Current-Node's next-hops, which
replace the Local-RIB route's next-hops and the metric being updated, and any route tags
are removed. If the IGP Route Tag (TLV 1153) is included in the Current-Prefix's NLRI
Attribute, the tag(s) is installed in the current Local-RIB route's tag(s).

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9815

BGP-LS SPF Routing

July 2025

◦
If the Current-Prefix's corresponding prefix is in the Local-RIB and the cost is the same as
the Local-RIB route's metric, the Current-Node's next-hops are merged with the Local-RIB
route's next-hops. The algorithm below supports ECMP routes. Some platforms or
implementations may have limits on the number of ECMP routes that can be supported.
The setting or identification of any limitations is outside the scope if this document.
Weighted UCMP routes are out of scope as well.

5.

All the Link NLRIs with the same Node Identifiers as the Current-Node are considered for
installation. Each link is examined and referred to as the "Current-Link" in the following
text. The cost of the Current-Link is the advertised IGP Metric (TLV 1095) from the Link NLRI
BGP-LS attribute added to the cost to reach the Current-Node. If the Current-Node is for the
local BGP router, the next-hop for the link is a direct next-hop pointing to the corresponding
local interface. For any other Current-Node, the next-hop(s) for the Current-Link is inherited
from the Current-Node. The following is done for each link:

a.

If the Current-Link's NLRI attribute includes an SPF Status TLV indicating the link is down,
the BGP-LS-SPF Link NLRI is considered down, and the next link for the Current-Node is
examined in Step 5.

b.

If the Current-Node NLRI attributes include the SPF Status TLV (refer to Section 5.2.1.1)
and the status indicates that the Node doesn't support transit, the next link for the Current-
Node is processed in Step 5.

c.

The Current-Link's Remote Node NLRI is accessed (i.e., the Node NLRI with the same Node
Identifiers as the Current-Link's Remote Node Descriptors). If it exists, it is referred to as
the "Remote-Node" and the algorithm proceeds as follows:

▪
If the Remote-Node's NLRI attribute includes an SPF Status TLV indicating the node is
unreachable, the next link for the Current-Node is examined in Step 5.
▪
All the Link NLRIs corresponding to the Remote-Node are searched for a Link NLRI
pointing to the Current-Node. Each Remote-Node's Link NLRI (referred to as the Remote-
Link) is examined for Remote Node Descriptors matching the Current-Node and Link
Descriptors matching the Current-Link.

MUST

MUST

 match the Remote-Link's IPv4/IPv6 interface address.

▪
For IPv4/IPv6 numbered Link Descriptors to match during the IPv4 SPF computation,
the Current-Link's IP4/IPv6 interface address link descriptor
 match the Remote-
Link IPv4/IPv6 neighbor address link descriptor, and the Current-Link's IPv4/IPv6
neighbor address
▪
For unnumbered links to match during the IPv4 or IPv6 SPF computation, the Current-
Link and Remote-Link's Address Family Link Descriptor TLV must match the address
family of the IPv4 or IPv6 SPF computation, the Current-Link's Remote Identifier
match the Remote-Link's Local Identifier, and the Current-Link's Remote Identifier
MUST
may not be known, a value of 0 is considered a wildcard and will match any Current
or Remote Link's Local Identifier (see TLV 258
Descriptor TLVs for multiple address families may be advertised so that an
unnumbered link can be used in the SPF computation for multiple address families.

 match the Remote-Link's Local Identifier. Since the Link's Remote Identifier

). Address Family Link

[RFC9552]

MUST

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9815

BGP-LS SPF Routing

July 2025

If these conditions are satisfied for one of the Remote-Node's links, the bidirectional
connectivity check succeeds and the Remote-Node may be processed further. The
Remote-Node's Link NLRI providing bidirectional connectivity is referred to as the
Remote-Link. If no Remote-Link is found, the next link for the Current-Node is examined
in Step 5.

▪
If the Remote-Link NLRI attribute includes an SPF Status TLV indicating the link is down,
the Remote-Link NLRI is considered down, and the next link for the Current-Node is
examined in Step 5.
▪
If the Remote-Node is not on the CAN-LIST, it is inserted based on the cost. The Remote
Node's cost is the cost of the Current-Node added to the Current-Link's IGP Metric (TLV
1095). The next-hop(s) for the Remote-Node is inherited from the Current-Link.
▪
If the Remote-Node NLRI is already on the CAN-LIST with a higher cost, it must be
removed and reinserted with the Remote-Node cost based on the Current-Link (as
calculated in the previous step). The next-hop(s) for the Remote-Node is inherited from
the Current-Link.
▪
If the Remote-Node NLRI is already on the CAN-LIST with the same cost, it need not be
reinserted on the CAN-LIST. However, the Current-Link's next-hop(s) must be merged
into the current set of next-hops for the Remote-Node.
▪
If the Remote-Node NLRI is already on the CAN-LIST with a lower cost, it need not be
reinserted on the CAN-LIST.

d.

Return to Step 3 to process the next lowest-cost Node NLRI on the CAN-LIST.

6.

The Local-RIB is examined and changes (adds, deletes, and modifications) are installed into
the GLOBAL-RIB. For each route in the Local-RIB:

◦
If the route was added during the current BGP SPF computation, install the route into the
GLOBAL-RIB.
◦
If the route was modified during the current BGP SPF computation (e.g., metric, tags, or
next-hops), update the route in the GLOBAL-RIB.
◦
If the route was not installed during the current BGP SPF computation, remove the route
from the GLOBAL-RIB.

6.4.  IPv4/IPv6 Unicast Address Family Interaction

While the BGP-LS-SPF address family and the BGP unicast address families may install routes
into the routing tables of the same device, they operate independently (i.e., "ships-in-the-night"
mode). There is no implicit route redistribution between the BGP-LS-SPF address family and the
BGP unicast address families.

RECOMMENDED

It is
scheduling priority by default over other BGP address families as the BGP-LS-SPF SAFI is
considered an underlay SAFI.

 that BGP-LS-SPF IPv4/IPv6 route computation and installation be given

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9815

BGP-LS SPF Routing

July 2025

6.5.  NLRI Advertisement

6.5.1.  Link/Prefix Failure Convergence

A local failure prevents a link from being used in the SPF calculation due to the IGP bidirectional
connectivity requirement. Consequently, local link failures
 always be communicated as
quickly as possible and given priority over other categories of changes to ensure expeditious
propagation and optimal convergence.

SHOULD

SHOULD

 advertise a more recent version with an increased Sequence Number TLV for the

According to standard BGP procedures, the link would continue to be used until the last copy of
the BGP-LS-SPF Link NLRI is withdrawn. In order to avoid this delay, the originator of the Link
NLRI
BGP-LS-SPF Link NLRI including the SPF Status TLV (refer to Section 5.2.2.2) indicating the link is
down with respect to BGP SPF. The configurable LinkStatusDownAdvertise timer controls the
interval that the BGP-LS-SPF Link NLRI is advertised with SPF Status indicating the link is down
prior to withdrawal. If the BGP-LS-SPF Link NLRI is advertised with the SPF Status TLV included
in the BGP-LS Attribute, and the link becomes available in that period, the originator of the BGP-
LS-SPF Link NLRI
the SPF Status TLV in the BGP-LS Link Attribute. The suggested default value for the
LinkStatusDownAdvertise timer is 2 seconds.

 advertise a more recent version of the BGP-LS-SPF Link NLRI without

MUST

SHOULD

 be advertised with the SPF Status TLV (refer to Section 5.2.3.1) to indicate that the

Similarly, when a prefix becomes unreachable, a more recent version of the BGP-LS-SPF Prefix
NLRI
prefix is unreachable in the BGP-LS Prefix Attributes, and the prefix will be considered
unreachable with respect to BGP SPF. The configurable PrefixStatusDownAdvertise timer
controls the interval that the BGP-LS-Prefix NLRI is advertised with SPF Status indicating the
prefix is unreachable prior to withdrawal. If the BGP-LS-SPF Prefix has been advertised with the
SPF Status TLV and the prefix becomes reachable in that period, the originator of the BGP-LS-SPF
Prefix NLRI
 advertise a more recent version of the BGP-LS-SPF Prefix NLRI without the SPF
Status TLV in the BGP-LS Prefix Attributes. The suggested default value for the
PrefixStatusDownAdvertise timer is 2 seconds.

MUST

6.5.2.  Node Failure Convergence

. If fast failure detection such as BFD

By default, all the NLRIs advertised by a node are withdrawn when a session failure is detected
[RFC4271]
fastest converging path, the most recent versions of BGP-LS-SPF NLRI will be withdrawn. This
may result in older versions of NLRIs received from one or more peers on a different path(s) in
the LSDB until they are withdrawn. These stale NLRIs will not delay convergence since the
adjacent nodes detect the link failure and advertise a more recent NLRI indicating the link is
down with respect to BGP SPF (refer to Section 6.5.1) and the bidirectional connectivity check
fails during the BGP SPF calculation (refer to Section 6.3).

 is utilized, and the node is on the

[RFC5880]

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9815

BGP-LS SPF Routing

July 2025

7.  Error Handling

This section describes error-handling actions, as described in
LS-SPF SAFI BGP UPDATE message processing.

[RFC7606]

, that are specific to BGP-

7.1.  Processing of BGP-LS-SPF TLVs

When a BGP speaker receives a BGP Update containing a malformed Node NLRI SPF Status TLV
, the corresponding Node NLRI is considered malformed and
in the BGP-LS Attribute
SHOULD
MUST
limiting) for further analysis.

 be handled as 'treat-as-withdraw'. An implementation

 log an error (subject to rate

[RFC9552]

When a BGP speaker receives a BGP Update containing a malformed Link NLRI SPF Status TLV
, the corresponding Link NLRI is considered malformed and
in the BGP-LS Attribute
SHOULD
MUST
limiting) for further analysis.

 be handled as 'treat-as-withdraw'. An implementation

 log an error (subject to rate

[RFC9552]

When a BGP speaker receives a BGP Update containing a malformed Address Family Link
[RFC9552]
Descriptor TLV in the BGP-LS Attribute
malformed and
MUST
error (subject to rate limiting) for further analysis.

 be handled as 'treat-as-withdraw'. An implementation

, the corresponding Link NLRI is considered

SHOULD

 log an

When a BGP speaker receives a BGP Update containing a malformed Prefix NLRI SPF Status TLV
, the corresponding Prefix NLRI is considered malformed and
in the BGP-LS Attribute
 log an error (subject to rate
SHOULD
MUST
limiting) for further analysis.

 be handled as 'treat-as-withdraw'. An implementation

[RFC9552]

When a BGP speaker receives a BGP Update containing a malformed BGP-LS Attribute TE and
IGP Metric TLV, the corresponding NLRI is considered malformed and
. An implementation
as-withdraw'
further analysis.

MUST
 log an error (subject to rate limiting) for

[RFC7606]

SHOULD

 be handled as 'treat-

The BGP-LS Attribute consists of Node attribute TLVs, Link attribute TLVs, and Prefix attribute
TLVs. Node attribute TLVs and their error-handling rules are either defined in
[RFC6119]
derived from
considered malformed based on these error-handling rules, then it
NLRI as malformed, and the receiving BGP speaker
'treat-as-withdraw'

 or
. If a BGP speaker receives a BGP-LS Attribute that is

 handle such a malformed NLRI as

 consider the received

[RFC7606]
.

[RFC9552]

[RFC5305]

MUST

MUST

 and

Node Descriptor TLVs and their error-handling rules are defined in
Node Attribute TLVs and their error-handling rules are either defined in
from

[RFC6119]
.

[RFC5305]

 and

Section 5.2.1 of [RFC9552]
.
 or derived

[RFC9552]

Link Descriptor TLVs and their error-handling rules are defined in
Link Attribute TLVs and their error-handling rules are either defined in
from

[RFC6119]
.

[RFC5305]

 and

Section 5.2.2 of [RFC9552]
.
 or derived

[RFC9552]

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9815

BGP-LS SPF Routing

July 2025

Prefix Descriptor TLVs and their error-handling rules are defined in
Prefix Attribute TLVs and their error-handling rules are either defined in
from

[RFC2328]
.

[RFC5130]

 and

Section 5.2.3 of [RFC9552]
.
 or derived

[RFC9552]

If a BGP speaker receives NLRI with a Node Descriptor TLV, Link Descriptor TLV, or Prefix
Descriptor TLV that is considered malformed based on error handling rules defined in the above
references, then it
speaker

 consider the received NLRI as malformed, and the receiving BGP

 handle such a malformed NLRI as 'treat-as-withdraw'

[RFC7606]
.

MUST

MUST

When a BGP speaker receives a BGP Update that does not contain any BGP-LS Attributes, it is
most likely an indication of 'Attribute Discard' fault handling, and the BGP speaker
preserve and propagate the BGP-LS-SPF NLRI as described in
However, NLRIs without the BGP-LS Attribute
6.3). How this is accomplished is an implementation matter, but one way would be for these
NLRIs not to be returned in LSDB lookups.

SHOULD
Section 8.2.2 of [RFC9552]
.

 be used in the SPF calculation (Section

MUST NOT

7.2.  Processing of BGP-LS-SPF NLRIs

A BGP speaker supporting the BGP-LS-SPF SAFI
the BGP-LS-SPF NLRI listed in

Section 8.2.2 of [RFC9552]

MUST

 perform the syntactic validation checks of

 to determine if it is malformed.

7.3.  Processing of BGP-LS Attributes

A BGP speaker supporting the BGP-LS-SPF SAFI
the BGP-LS Attribute listed in

Section 8.2.2 of [RFC9552]

MUST

 perform the syntactic validation checks of

 to determine if it is malformed.

An implementation
syntax validation.

SHOULD

 log an error for further analysis for problems detected during

7.4.  BGP-LS-SPF Link State Database Synchronization

While uncommon, there may be situations where the LSDBs of two BGP speakers support the
BGP-LS-SPF SAFI lose synchronization. In these situations, the BGP session
other means of resynchronization are used (beyond the scope of this document). When the
session is reset, the BGP speaker
"Loss of LSDB Synchronization" as described in
loss of synchronization are beyond the scope of this document.

 send a NOTIFICATION message with the BGP error code

Section 3 of [RFC4271]

. The mechanisms to detect

 be reset unless

MUST

MUST

8.  IANA Considerations

8.1.  BGP-LS-SPF Allocation in the SAFI Values Registry

IANA has assigned value 80 for BGP-LS-SPF from the First Come First Served range
and listed this document as a reference in the "SAFI Values" registry within the "Subsequent
Address Family Identifiers (SAFI) Parameters" registry group.

[RFC8126]

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9815

BGP-LS SPF Routing

July 2025

8.2.  BGP-LS-SPF Assignments in the BGP-LS NLRI and Attribute TLVs
Registry

IANA has assigned six TLVs for BGP-LS-SPF NLRI in the "BGP-LS NLRI and Attribute TLVs"
registry. Supported TLV types include Sequence Number, SPF Status, and Address Family Link
Descriptor. Deprecated TLV types include SPF Capability, IPv4 Link Prefix Length, and IPv6 Link
Prefix Length.

TLV Code
Point

1181

1184

1185

Description

Reference

Sequence Number

Section 5.2.4 of RFC 9815

SPF Status

Sections 5.2.1.1, 5.2.2.2, and 5.2.3.1 of RFC
9815

Address Family Link
Descriptor

Section 5.2.2.1 of RFC 9815

Table 5: NLRI Attribute TLVs

The early allocation assignments for the TLV types SPF Capability (1180), IPv4 Link Prefix Length
(1182), and IPv6 Link Prefix Length (1183) are no longer required and have been deprecated.

8.3.  BGP-LS-SPF Node NLRI Attribute SPF Status TLV Values Registry

IANA has created the "BGP-LS-SPF Node NLRI Attribute SPF Status TLV Values" registry for status
values within the "BGP Shortest Path First (BGP SPF)" registry group. Initial values for this
registry are provided below. Future assignments are to be made using the Expert Review
registration policy
[RFC9552]
.

 with guidance for designated experts as per

Section 7.2 of

[RFC8126]

Values Description

0

1

2

Reserved

Node unreachable with respect to BGP SPF

Node does not support transit traffic with respect to BGP SPF

3-254

Unassigned

255

Reserved

Table 6: BGP-LS-SPF Node NLRI Attribute SPF Status TLV Values Registry
Assignments

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9815

BGP-LS SPF Routing

July 2025

8.4.  BGP-LS-SPF Link NLRI Attribute SPF Status TLV Values Registry

IANA has created the "BGP-LS-SPF Link NLRI Attribute SPF Status TLV Values" registry for status
values within the BGP Shortest Path First (BGP SPF)" registry group. Initial values for this
registry are provided below. Future assignments are to be made using the IETF Review
registration policy

[RFC8126]
.

Value Description

0

1

Reserved

Link unreachable with respect to BGP SPF

2-254

Unassigned

255

Reserved

Table 7: BGP-LS-SPF Link NLRI Attribute SPF Status
TLV Values Registry Assignments

8.5.  BGP-LS-SPF Prefix NLRI Attribute SPF Status TLV Values Registry

IANA has created the "BGP-LS-SPF Prefix NLRI Attribute SPF Status TLV Values" registry for
status values within the "BGP Shortest Path First (BGP SPF)" registry group. Initial values for this
registry are provided below. Future assignments are to be made using the IETF Review
registration policy

[RFC8126]
.

Value Description

0

1

Reserved

Prefix unreachable with respect to BGP SPF

2-254

Unassigned

255

Reserved

Table 8: BGP-LS-SPF Prefix NLRI Attribute SPF Status
TLV Values Registry Assignments

8.6.  Assignment in the BGP Error (Notification) Codes Registry

IANA has assigned value 9 for Loss of LSDB Synchronization in the "BGP Error (Notification)
Codes" registry within the "Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) Parameters" registry group.

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9815

BGP-LS SPF Routing

July 2025

9.  Security Considerations

[RFC4271]

This document defines a BGP SAFI, i.e., the BGP-LS-SPF SAFI. This document does not change the
underlying security issues inherent in the BGP protocol
discussed in
[RFC6952]
issues for BGP mentioned in
 also applies to this document. The threats
and security considerations are similar to the BGP IPv4 unicast SAFI and IPv6 unicast SAFI when
utilized in similar deployments, e.g.,
[RFC4593]
protocols in

 apply to the BGP SPF functionality as well. The analysis of the security

. The analysis of generic threats to routing

. The security considerations

 is also worth noting.

[RFC4271]

[RFC4272]

[RFC7938]

 and

As the modifications for BGP SPF described in this document apply to IPv4 unicast and IPv6
unicast as underlay SAFIs in a single BGP SPF routing domain, the BGP security solutions
described in
domain BGP, where multiple BGP routing domains are typically involved. The BGP-LS-SPF SAFI
NLRIs described in this document are typically advertised between EBGP or IBGP speakers
under a single administrative domain.

 are out of scope as they are meant to apply for inter-

[RFC8205]

[RFC6811]

 and

The BGP-LS-SPF SAFI and associated BGP SPF processing inherit the encodings from BGP-LS
[RFC9552]
, and consequently, inherit the security considerations for BGP-LS associated with
these encodings. Additionally, given that BGP SPF processing is used to install IPv4 and IPv6
unicast routes, the BGP SPF processing is vulnerable to attacks to the routing control plane that
aren't applicable to BGP-LS. One notable Denial-of-Service attack would be to include malformed
BGP attributes in a replicated BGP Update, causing the receiving peer to treat the advertised BGP-
LS-SPF to a withdrawal

[RFC7606]
.

RECOMMENDED

 be used to authenticate BGP sessions. If an authorized BGP peer is compromised, that

In order to mitigate the risk of peering with BGP speakers masquerading as legitimate
authorized BGP speakers, it is
[RFC5925]
BGP peer could advertise a modified Node, Link, or Prefix NLRI that results in misrouting,
repeating origination of NLRI, and/or excessive SPF calculations. When a BGP speaker detects
that its self-originated NLRI is being originated by another BGP speaker, an appropriate error
SHOULD
other BGP AFI/SAFIs.

 be logged so that the operator can take corrective action. This exposure is similar to

 that the TCP Authentication Option (TCP-AO)

10.  Management Considerations

This section includes unique management considerations for the BGP-LS-SPF address family.

10.1.  Configuration

All routers in the BGP SPF routing domain are under a single administrative domain allowing
for consistent configuration.

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9815

BGP-LS SPF Routing

July 2025

10.2.  Link Metric Configuration

For loopback prefixes, it is
setting of the metric is a local matter and beyond the scope of this document.

RECOMMENDED

 that the metric be 0. For non-loopback prefixes, the

Algorithms that set the metric inversely to the link speed in some IGP implementations
MAY
supported. However, the details of how the metric is computed are beyond the scope of this
document.

 be

Within a BGP SPF routing domain, the IGP metrics for all advertised links
or defaulted consistently. For example, if a default metric is used for one router's links, then a
similar metric should be used for all router's links. Similarly, if the link metric is derived from
using the inverse of the link bandwidth on one router, then this
and the same reference bandwidth
Failure to do so will result in incorrect routing based on the link metric.

 be done for all routers,
 be used to derive the inversely proportional metric.

 be configured

SHOULD

SHOULD

SHOULD

10.3.  Unnumbered Link Configuration

When parallel unnumbered links between BGP SPF routers are included in the BGP SPF routing
domain and the Remote Link Identifiers aren't readily discovered, it is
 that the
RECOMMENDED
Remote Link Identifiers be configured so that precise Link NLRI matching can be done.

10.4.  Adjacency End-of-RIB (EOR) Marker Requirement

Depending on the peering model, topology, and convergence requirements, an EoR marker
(Section 5.3) for the BGP-LS-SPF SAFI
LS Link NLRI for the peer. If configuration is supported, this
SPF instance level and

MUST
 be configured consistently throughout the BGP SPF routing domain.

 be required from the peer prior to advertising a BGP-

 be configurable at the BGP

MUST

MAY

When this configuration is provided, the default
a BGP-LS Link NLRI. Configuration of a timer specifying the maximum time to wait prior to
advertisement

 be to wait indefinitely prior to advertising

 be provided.

MUST

MAY

10.5.  backoff-config

In addition to the configuration of the BGP-LS-SPF address family, implementations
SHOULD
. If
support "Shortest Path First (SPF) Back-Off Delay Algorithm for Link-State IGPs"
supported, configuration of the INITIAL_SPF_DELAY, SHORT_SPF_DELAY, LONG_SPF_DELAY,
TIME_TO_LEARN, and HOLDDOWN_INTERVAL
[RFC8405]
domain, and this also applies to the BGP SPF routing domain.

MUST
 recommends consistent configuration of these values throughout the IGP routing

[RFC8405] Section 6 of
.

 be supported

[RFC8405]

10.6.  BGP-LS-SPF NLRI Readvertisement Delay

The configuration parameter that specifies the delay for readvertising a more recent instance of
a self-originated NLRI when received more than once in succession is
BGP_LS_SPF_SELF_READVERTISEMENT_DELAY. The default is 5 seconds.

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 9815

BGP-LS SPF Routing

July 2025

10.7.  Operational Data

SHOULD

In order to troubleshoot SPF issues, implementations
entries for previous SPF computations. Each SPF log entry would include the BGP-LS-SPF NLRI
SPF triggering the SPF, SPF scheduled time, SPF start time, and SPF end time. Since the size of the
log is finite, implementations
 also maintain counters for the total number of SPF
computations and the total number of SPF triggering events. Additionally, troubleshooting
, the current SPF back-off state,
should be available for SPF scheduling and back-off
the remaining time-to-learn, the remaining hold-down interval, the last trigger event time, the
last SPF time, and the next SPF time.

 support an SPF log including

[RFC8405]

SHOULD

10.8.  BGP-LS-SPF Address Family Session Isolation

In common deployment scenarios, the unicast routes installed during the BGP-LS-SPF AFI/SAFI
computation serve as the underlay for other BGP AFI/SAFIs. To avoid errors encountered in
other AFI/SAFIs from impacting the BGP-LS-SPF AFI/SAFI or vice versa, isolation mechanisms
such as separate BGP instances or separate BGP sessions (e.g., using different addresses for
peering) for BGP-LS-SPF information distribution

 be used.

SHOULD

11.  References

11.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC2328]

[RFC4202]

[RFC4271]

[RFC4760]

[RFC5130]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Moy, J. "OSPF Version 2" STD 54 RFC 2328 DOI 10.17487/RFC2328
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2328>

.

,

,

, April 1998,

 and

Kompella, K., Ed.
Generalized Multi-Protocol Label Switching (GMPLS)" RFC 4202 DOI 10.17487/
RFC4202

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4202>

Y. Rekhter, Ed. "Routing Extensions in Support of

, October 2005,

.

,

,

,

Rekhter, Y., Ed. Li, T., Ed.
(BGP-4)" RFC 4271 DOI 10.17487/RFC4271
editor.org/info/rfc4271>

, and

.

,

,

,
, January 2006,

S. Hares, Ed. "A Border Gateway Protocol 4

<https://www.rfc-

,

Bates, T. Chandra, R. Katz, D.
,
BGP-4" RFC 4760 DOI 10.17487/RFC4760
editor.org/info/rfc4760>

, and

,

,

.

Y. Rekhter "Multiprotocol Extensions for

,

, January 2007,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Previdi, S. Shand, M., Ed.
Using Administrative Tags" RFC 5130 DOI 10.17487/RFC5130
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5130>

C. Martin "A Policy Control Mechanism in IS-IS
, February 2008,

, and
,

,

,

.

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 9815

BGP-LS SPF Routing

July 2025

[RFC5305]

[RFC5880]

[RFC5925]

[RFC6119]

[RFC6793]

[RFC6811]

[RFC7606]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8205]

[RFC8405]

[RFC8654]

[RFC9086]

 and

Li, T.
,
10.17487/RFC5305

H. Smit "IS-IS Extensions for Traffic Engineering" RFC 5305 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5305>

, October 2008,

,

,

.

Katz, D.
 and
10.17487/RFC5880

D. Ward "Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD)" RFC 5880 DOI

,

,

,

, June 2010,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5880>

.

,

Touch, J. Mankin, A.
DOI 10.17487/RFC5925

, and

R. Bonica "The TCP Authentication Option" RFC 5925

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5925>

, June 2010,

,

.

,

,

Harrison, J. Berger, J.
6119 DOI 10.17487/RFC6119
,
rfc6119>

, and

.

M. Bartlett "IPv6 Traffic Engineering in IS-IS" RFC
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, February 2011,

,

,

E. Chen "BGP Support for Four-Octet Autonomous System (AS)

,

 and

Vohra, Q.
Number Space" RFC 6793 DOI 10.17487/RFC6793
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6793>

,

.

, December 2012,

<https://

,

Mohapatra, P. Scudder, J. Ward, D. Bush, R.
Validation" RFC 6811 DOI 10.17487/RFC6811
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc6811>

.

,

,

R. Austein "BGP Prefix Origin

,
, and
<https://www.rfc-
, January 2013,

,

K. Patel "Revised Error
, and
Chen, E., Ed. Scudder, J., Ed. Mohapatra, P.
Handling for BGP UPDATE Messages" RFC 7606 DOI 10.17487/RFC7606
,
2015,
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7606>

,

,

,

, August

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

.

,

,

,

, June

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

 and

Lepinski, M., Ed.
DOI 10.17487/RFC8205
rfc8205>

.

K. Sriram, Ed. "BGPsec Protocol Specification" RFC 8205

,

,

,

, September 2017,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

Decraene, B. Litkowski, S. Gredler, H. Lindem, A. Francois, P.
,
"Shortest Path First (SPF) Back-Off Delay Algorithm for Link-State IGPs" RFC
8405 DOI 10.17487/RFC8405
,
rfc8405>

C. Bowers
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, June 2018,

, and

,

,

.

,

Bush, R. Patel, K.
,
, and
DOI 10.17487/RFC8654

,

D. Ward "Extended Message Support for BGP" RFC 8654
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8654>
, October 2019,

,

,
.

,

Previdi, S. Talaulikar, K., Ed. Filsfils, C. Patel, K. Ray, S.
Gateway Protocol - Link State (BGP-LS) Extensions for Segment Routing BGP
Egress Peer Engineering" RFC 9086 DOI 10.17487/RFC9086
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9086>

, August 2021,

J. Dong "Border
,

, and

,

,

,

,

,

.

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 9815

BGP-LS SPF Routing

July 2025

[RFC9552]

Talaulikar, K., Ed. "Distribution of Link-State and Traffic Engineering
Information Using BGP" RFC 9552 DOI 10.17487/RFC9552
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9552>

.

,

,

, December 2023,

11.2.  Informative References

[RFC4272]

[RFC4456]

[RFC4593]

[RFC4724]

[RFC5286]

[RFC6952]

[RFC7911]

[RFC7938]

[RFC9816]

Murphy, S. "BGP Security Vulnerabilities Analysis" RFC 4272 DOI 10.17487/
RFC4272

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4272>

, January 2006,

,

,

,

.

, and

Bates, T. Chen, E.
,
Mesh Internal BGP (IBGP)" RFC 4456 DOI 10.17487/RFC4456
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4456>

,

,

.

R. Chandra "BGP Route Reflection: An Alternative to Full

,

, April 2006,

Barbir, A. Murphy, S.
,
4593 DOI 10.17487/RFC4593
,
rfc4593>

, and

.

Y. Yang "Generic Threats to Routing Protocols" RFC

,

,

, October 2006,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

Sangli, S. Chen, E. Fernando, R. Scudder, J.
Mechanism for BGP" RFC 4724 DOI 10.17487/RFC4724
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4724>

, and

,
,

,

.

Y. Rekhter "Graceful Restart
<https://
, January 2007,

,

A. Zinin, Ed. "Basic Specification for IP Fast Reroute: Loop-
Atlas, A., Ed.
 and
Free Alternates" RFC 5286 DOI 10.17487/RFC5286
<https://
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5286>

, September 2008,

,

,

.

,

Jethanandani, M. Patel, K.
L. Zheng "Analysis of BGP, LDP, PCEP, and MSDP
,
Issues According to the Keying and Authentication for Routing Protocols (KARP)
Design Guide" RFC 6952 DOI 10.17487/RFC6952
,
editor.org/info/rfc6952>
.

<https://www.rfc-

, May 2013,

, and

,

,

Walton, D. Retana, A. Chen, E.
in BGP" RFC 7911 DOI 10.17487/RFC7911
info/rfc7911>

, and

,

,

,

.

J. Scudder "Advertisement of Multiple Paths
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

,
, July 2016,

,

Lapukhov, P. Premji, A.
, and
Scale Data Centers" RFC 7938 DOI 10.17487/RFC7938
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7938>

J. Mitchell, Ed. "Use of BGP for Routing in Large-
,

, August 2016,

<https://

,

,

.

,

Patel, K. Lindem, A. Zandi, S. Dawra, G.
,
J. Dong "Usage and Applicability
of BGP Link State (BGP-LS) Shortest Path First (SPF) Routing in Data Centers"
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 9816 DOI 10.17487/RFC9816
, July 2025,
rfc9816>

, and

,
.

,

,

Acknowledgements

The authors would like to thank
Anderson Fred Baker Lukas Krattiger Yingzhen Qu
,
comments. Thanks to
being used for non-local traffic (i.e., transit traffic).

Sue Hares Jorge Rabadan Boris Hassanov Dan Frost Matt
,
,
 for their reviews and
Pushpasis Sarkar
 for discussions on preventing a BGP SPF router from

,
Haibo Wang

, and

,

,

,

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 9815

BGP-LS SPF Routing

July 2025

The authors extend a special thanks to
convergence as compared to IGPs.

Eric Rosen

 for fruitful discussions on BGP-LS-SPF

The authors would also like to thank the following people:

• Alvaro Retana

 for multiple AD reviews and discussions.

• Ketan Talaulikar

 for an extensive shepherd review.

• Adrian Farrel Li Zhang

,

, and

Jie Dong

 for WG Last Call review comments.

• Jim Guichard

 for his AD review and discussion.

• David Dong

 for his IANA review.

• Joel Halpern

 for his GENART review.

• Erik Kline Eric Vyncke Mahesh Jethanandani

,

, and

Roman Danyliw

 for IESG review

,
comments.

• John Scudder

 for his detailed IESG review and specifically for helping align the document

with BGP documents.

Contributors

The following people contributed substantially to the content of this document and should be
considered coauthors:

Derek Yeung
Arrcus, Inc.
Email:

derek@arrcus.com

Gunter Van de Velde
Nokia
Email:

gunter.van_de_velde@nokia.com

Abhay Roy
Arrcus, Inc.
Email:

abhay@arrcus.com

Venu Venugopal
Cisco Systems
Email:

venuv@cisco.com

Chaitanya Yadlapalli
AT&T
Email:

cy098d@att.com

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 9815

BGP-LS SPF Routing

July 2025

Authors' Addresses

Keyur Patel
Arrcus, Inc.
Email:

keyur@arrcus.com

Acee Lindem
Arrcus, Inc.
301 Midenhall Way
Cary NC 27513
United States of America
Email:

,

acee.ietf@gmail.com

Shawn Zandi
Email:

shafagh@shafagh.com

Wim Henderickx
Nokia
copernicuslaan 50
2018 Antwerp
Belgium
Email:

wim.henderickx@nokia.com

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 33

