Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9697
8182
Standards Track
December 2024
2070-1721
J. Snijders
Fastly

T. de Kock
RIPE NCC

RFC 9697
Detecting RPKI Repository Delta Protocol (RRDP)
Session Desynchronization

Abstract

This document describes an approach for Resource Public Key Infrastructure (RPKI) Relying
Parties to detect a particular form of RPKI Repository Delta Protocol (RRDP) session
desynchronization and how to recover. This document updates RFC 8182.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9697
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Snijders & de Kock

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9697

Detecting RRDP Session Desynchronization

December 2024

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

2.  Immutability of RRDP Files

3.  Detection of Desynchronization

3.1.  Example

4.  Recovery After Desynchronization

5.  Changes to RFC 8182

6.  Security Considerations

7.  IANA Considerations

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

8.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

2

3

3

3

3

5

5

6

6

6

6

7

7

7

1.  Introduction

The Resource Public Key Infrastructure (RPKI) Repository Delta Protocol (RRDP)
 is a
one-way synchronization protocol for distributing RPKI data in the form of differences (deltas)
between sequential repository states. Relying Parties (RPs) apply a contiguous chain of deltas to
synchronize their local copy of the repository with the current state of the remote Repository
Server. Delta files for any given session_id and serial number are expected to contain an
immutable record of the state of the Repository Server at that given point in time, but this is not
always the case.

[RFC8182]

This document describes an approach for RPs to detect a form of RRDP session
desynchronization where the hash of a delta for a given serial number and session_id have
mutated from the previous Update Notification File and how to recover.

Snijders & de Kock

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9697

Detecting RRDP Session Desynchronization

December 2024

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Immutability of RRDP Files

 describes how discrete publication events such as the addition,

Section 3.1 of [RFC8182]
modification, or deletion of one or more repository objects can be communicated as immutable
files, highlighting advantages for publishers, such as the ability to precalculate files and make use
of caching infrastructure.

Even though the global RPKI is understood to present a loosely consistent view that depends on
Section 6 of [RFC7115]
the cache's timing of updates (see
), different caches having different data
for the same RRDP session at the same serial violates the principle of least astonishment.

If an RRDP server over time serves differing data for a given session_id and serial number,
distinct RP instances (depending on the moment they connected to the RRDP server) would end
up with divergent local repositories. Comparing only the server-provided session_id and latest
serial number across distinct RP instances would not bring such divergence to light.

The RRDP specification
doesn't make it clear that immutability is an absolute requirement for the RRDP to work well.

 alludes to immutability being a property of RRDP files, but it

[RFC8182]

3.  Detection of Desynchronization

Relying Parties can implement a mechanism to keep a record of the serial and hash attribute
values in delta elements of the previous successful fetch of an Update Notification File. Then,
after fetching a new Update Notification File, the Relying Party should compare if the serial and
hash values of previously seen serials match those in the newly fetched file. If any differences
are detected, this means that the Delta files were unexpectedly mutated, and the RP should
proceed to Section 4.

3.1.  Example

This section contains two versions of an Update Notification File to demonstrate an unexpected
mutation. The initial Update Notification File is as follows:

Snijders & de Kock

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9697

Detecting RRDP Session Desynchronization

December 2024

<notification xmlns="http://www.ripe.net/rpki/rrdp" version="1"
session_id="fe528335-db5f-48b2-be7e-bf0992d0b5ec" serial="1774">
<snapshot uri="https://rrdp.example.net/1774/snapshot.xml"
hash=
"4b5f27b099737b8bf288a33796bfe825fb2014a69fd6aa99080380299952f2e2"
/>
<delta serial="1774" uri="https://rrdp.example.net/1774/delta.xml"
hash=
"effac94afd30bbf1cd6e180e7f445a4d4653cb4c91068fa9e7b669d49b5aaa00"
/>
<delta serial="1773" uri="https://rrdp.example.net/1773/delta.xml"
hash=
"731169254dd5de0ede94ba6999bda63b0fae9880873a3710e87a71bafb64761a"
/>
<delta serial="1772" uri="https://rrdp.example.net/1772/delta.xml"
hash=
"d4087585323fd6b7fd899ebf662ef213c469d39f53839fa6241847f4f6ceb939"
/>
</notification>

Figure 1

Based on the above Update Notification File, an RP implementation could record the following
state:

fe528335-db5f-48b2-be7e-bf0992d0b5ec
1774 effac94afd30bbf1cd6e180e7f445a4d4653cb4c91068fa9e7b669d49b5aaa00
1773 731169254dd5de0ede94ba6999bda63b0fae9880873a3710e87a71bafb64761a
1772 d4087585323fd6b7fd899ebf662ef213c469d39f53839fa6241847f4f6ceb939

Figure 2

A new version of the Update Notification File is published as follows:

Snijders & de Kock

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9697

Detecting RRDP Session Desynchronization

December 2024

<notification xmlns="http://www.ripe.net/rpki/rrdp" version="1"
session_id="fe528335-db5f-48b2-be7e-bf0992d0b5ec" serial="1775">
<snapshot uri="https://rrdp.example.net/1775/snapshot.xml"
hash=
"cd430c386deacb04bda55301c2aa49f192b529989b739f412aea01c9a77e5389"
/>
<delta serial="1775" uri="https://rrdp.example.net/1775/delta.xml"
hash=
"d199376e98a9095dbcf14ccd49208b4223a28a1327669f89566475d94b2b08cc"
/>
<delta serial="1774" uri="https://rrdp.example.net/1774/delta.xml"
hash=
"10ca28480a584105a059f95df5ca8369142fd7c8069380f84ebe613b8b89f0d3"
/>
<delta serial="1773" uri="https://rrdp.example.net/1773/delta.xml"
hash=
"731169254dd5de0ede94ba6999bda63b0fae9880873a3710e87a71bafb64761a"
/>
</notification>

Figure 3

Using its previously recorded state (see Figure 2), the RP can compare the hash values for serials
1773 and 1774. For serial 1774, compared to the earlier version of the Update Notification File, a
different hash value is now listed, meaning an unexpected delta mutation occurred.

4.  Recovery After Desynchronization

Following the detection of RRDP session desynchronization, in order to return to a synchronized
state, RP implementations
SHOULD
File and process it as described in

 issue a warning and
SHOULD
Section 3.4.3 of [RFC8182]
.

 download the latest Snapshot

See Section 6 for an overview of risks associated with desynchronization.

5.  Changes to RFC 8182

The following paragraph is added to
Notification File", after the paragraph that ends "The Relying Party
process the Snapshot File specified in the downloaded Update Notification File as described in
Section 3.4.3."

Section 3.4.1 of [RFC8182]

, "Processing the Update

 then download and

MUST

NEW

If the session_id matches the last known session_id, the Relying Party
whether hash values associated with previously seen files for serials match the hash
values of the corresponding serials in the newly fetched Update Notification File. If any

 compare

SHOULD

Snijders & de Kock

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9697

Detecting RRDP Session Desynchronization

December 2024

differences are detected, this means that files were unexpectedly mutated (see
[RFC9697]). The Relying Party
specified in the downloaded Update Notification File as described in Section 3.4.3.

 then download and process the Snapshot File

SHOULD

6.  Security Considerations

Due to the lifetime of RRDP sessions (often measured in months), desynchronization can persist
for an extended period if undetected.

Caches in a desynchronized state pose a risk by emitting a different set of Validated Payloads
than they would otherwise emit with a consistent repository copy. Through the interaction of the
desynchronization and the failed fetch mechanism described in
, Relying
Parties could spuriously omit Validated Payloads or emit Validated Payloads that the Certification
Authority intended to withdraw. As a result, due to the desynchronized state, route decision
making processes might consider route announcements intended to be marked valid as
"unknown" or "invalid" for an indeterminate period.

Section 6.6 of [RFC9286]

Missing Validated Payloads negatively impact the ability to validate BGP announcements using
mechanisms such as those described in

[RFC6811]

[ASPA]
.

 and

 advises RP implementations to continue to use cached versions of

Section 6.6 of [RFC9286]
objects, but only until such time as they become stale. By detecting whether the remote
Repository Server is in an inconsistent state and then immediately switching to using the latest
Snapshot File, RPs increase the probability to successfully replace objects before they become
stale.

7.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8182]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Bruijnzeels, T. Muravskiy, O. Weber, B.
,
Delta Protocol (RRDP)" RFC 8182 DOI 10.17487/RFC8182
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8182>
.

, and

,

,

R. Austein "The RPKI Repository
, July 2017,

<https://

Snijders & de Kock

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9697

Detecting RRDP Session Desynchronization

December 2024

8.2.  Informative References

[ASPA]

[RFC6811]

[RFC7115]

[RFC9286]

,

,

Azimov, A. Bogomazov, E. Bush, R. Patel, K. Snijders, J.
AS_PATH Verification Based on Autonomous System Provider Authorization
(ASPA) Objects" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-sidrops-aspa-
verification-19
ietf-sidrops-aspa-verification-19>

,
,
, 27 September 2024,

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-

K. Sriram "BGP

, and

,

,

,

.

,

Mohapatra, P. Scudder, J. Ward, D. Bush, R.
Validation" RFC 6811 DOI 10.17487/RFC6811
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc6811>

.

,

,

R. Austein "BGP Prefix Origin

,
, and
<https://www.rfc-
, January 2013,

,

Bush, R. "Origin Validation Operation Based on the Resource Public Key
Infrastructure (RPKI)" BCP 185 RFC 7115 DOI 10.17487/RFC7115
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7115>

,
.

,

, January 2014,

,

Austein, R. Huston, G. Kent, S.
, and
Public Key Infrastructure (RPKI)" RFC 9286 DOI 10.17487/RFC9286
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9286>

M. Lepinski "Manifests for the Resource

, June 2022,

,

,

,

.

Acknowledgements

During the hallway track at RIPE 86,
form of RRDP desynchronization, after which
produced an implementation based on rpki-client. Equipped with tooling to detect this particular
error condition, in subsequent months it became apparent that unexpected delta mutations in
the global RPKI repositories do happen from time to time.

 shared the idea for detecting this particular

Claudio Jeker Job Snijders
,

Theo Buehler

Ties de Kock

, and

The authors wish to thank
Kumari Behcet Sarikaya Murray Kucherawy Éric Vyncke Roman Danyliw Tim Bruijnzeels
,
,
Michael Hollyman
 for their careful review and feedback on this document.

Theo Buehler Mikhail Puzanov Alberto Leiva Tom Harrison Warren
, and

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

Authors' Addresses

Job Snijders
Fastly
Amsterdam
Netherlands
Email:

job@fastly.com

Ties de Kock
RIPE NCC
Amsterdam
Netherlands
Email:

tdekock@ripe.net

Snijders & de Kock

Standards Track

Page 7

