Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9741
Standards Track
March 2025
2070-1721
C. Bormann
Universität Bremen TZI

RFC 9741
Concise Data Definition Language (CDDL):
Additional Control Operators for the Conversion
and Processing of Text

Abstract

The Concise Data Definition Language (CDDL), standardized in RFC 8610, provides "control
operators" as its main language extension point. RFCs have added to this extension point in both
an application-specific and a more general way.

The present document defines a number of additional generally applicable control operators for
text conversion (bytes, integers, printf-style formatting, and JSON) and for an operation on text.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9741
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Bormann

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9741

CDDL: More Control Operators for Text

March 2025

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Terminology

2.  Text Conversion

2.1.  Byte Strings: Base 16 (Hex), Base 32, Base 45, and Base 64

2.2.  Numerals

2.3.  Printf-Style Formatting

2.4.  JSON Values

3.  Text Processing

3.1.  Join

4.  IANA Considerations

5.  Security Considerations

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

6.2.  Informative References

List of Figures

List of Tables

Acknowledgements

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

2

3

4

4

5

5

6

7

7

8

9

9

9

10

11

11

11

12

The Concise Data Definition Language (CDDL), standardized in
operators" as its main language extension point (
this extension point in both an application-specific

[RFC8610]
Section 3.8 of [RFC8610]

[RFC9090]

, provides "control
). RFCs have added to

 and a more general

[RFC9165]

 way.

The present document defines a number of additional generally applicable control operators. In
Table 1, the column marked t is for "target type" (left-hand side), and the column marked c is for
"controller type" (right-hand side).

Bormann

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9741

CDDL: More Control Operators for Text

March 2025

Name

.b64u, .b64c

.b64u-sloppy, .b64c-
sloppy

.hex, .hexlc, .hexuc

.b32, .h32

.b45

.base10

.printf

.json

.join

t

text

text

text

text

text

text

text

c

Purpose

bytes

Base64 representation of byte strings

bytes

Sloppy-tolerant variants of the above

bytes

Base16 representation of byte strings

bytes

Base32 representation of byte strings

bytes

Base45 representation of byte strings

int

Text representation of integer numbers

array

Printf-formatted text representation of
data items

text

any

Text representation of JSON values

text or
bytes

array

Build text or byte string from array of
components

Table 1: Summary of New Control Operators in This Document

1.1.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

Regular expressions mentioned in the text are as defined in

[RFC9485]
.

[RFC8610]
This specification uses terminology from
operators, "target" refers to the left-hand-side operand and "controller" to the right-hand-side
. Note
operand. "Tool" refers to tools along the lines of that described in
also that the data model underlying CDDL provides for text strings as well as byte strings as two
separate types, which are then collectively referred to as "strings".

. In particular, with respect to control

Appendix F of [RFC8610]

The term "opinionated" is used in this document to explain that the selection of operators
included is somewhat frugal, based on opinions about what the preferred (and likely) usage
scenarios will be. Specifically, not including a potential choice doesn't by itself intend to express
that the choice is unacceptable; it might still be added in a future registration if these opinions
evolve.

Bormann

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9741

CDDL: More Control Operators for Text

March 2025

2.  Text Conversion

2.1.  Byte Strings: Base 16 (Hex), Base 32, Base 45, and Base 64

A CDDL model often defines data that are byte strings in essence but need to be transported in
various encoded forms, such as base64 or hex. This section defines a number of control
operators to model these conversions.

The control operators generally are of a form that could be used like this:

signature-for-json = text .b64u signature
signature = bytes .cbor COSE_Sign1

The specification of these control operators cannot provide full coverage of the large number of
transformations in use; it focuses on
, as shown in Table 2.
For the representations defined in
[STD94]
:
8 of RFC 8949

, this specification uses names as inspired by Section

 and additionally

[RFC4648]

[RFC4648]

[RFC9285]

Name

.b64u

Meaning

Reference

Base64url, no padding

Section 5 of [RFC4648]

.b64u-sloppy

Base64url, no padding, sloppy

Section 5 of [RFC4648]

.b64c

Base64 classic, padding

Section 4 of [RFC4648]

.b64c-sloppy

Base64 classic, padding, sloppy

Section 4 of [RFC4648]

.b32

.h32

.hex

.hexlc

.hexuc

.b45

Base32, no padding

Section 6 of [RFC4648]

Base32 with "Extended Hex" alphabet, no padding

Section 7 of [RFC4648]

Base16 (hex), either case

Section 8 of [RFC4648]

Base16 (hex), lower case

Section 8 of [RFC4648]

Base16 (hex), upper case

Section 8 of [RFC4648]

Base45

[RFC9285]

Table 2: Control Operators for Text Conversion of Byte Strings

Note that this specification is somewhat opinionated here: It does not provide base64url or
base32(hex) encoding with padding or base64 classic without padding. Experience indicates that
these combinations only ever occur in error, so the usability of CDDL is increased by not
providing them in the first place. Also, adding "c" makes sure that any decision for classic base64
is actively taken.

Bormann

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9741

CDDL: More Control Operators for Text

March 2025

These control operators are "strict" in their matching, i.e., they only match base encodings that
conform to the mandates of their defining documents. Note that this also means that .b64u and
.b64c only match text strings composed of the set of characters defined for each of them,
respectively. (This is perhaps worth pointing out explicitly as it contrasts with the "b64" literal
prefix that can be used to notate byte strings in CDDL source code, which simply accepts
characters from either alphabet. This behavior is different from the matching behavior of the
four base64 control operators defined here.)

Section 4 of [RFC4648]

. Note that the present specification is opinionated again in not

The additional designation "sloppy" indicates that the text string is not validated for any
additional bits being zero, in variance to what is specified in the paragraph that follows Table 1
in
specifying a sloppy variant of base32 or base32hex, as no legacy use of sloppy base32(hex) was
known at the time of writing. Base45
environments with limited data transparency (such as URLs) but is included because of its close
relationship to QR codes and its wide use in health informatics (note that base45 is strongly
specified not to allow sloppy forms of encoding).

 is known to be suboptimal for use in

[RFC9285]

2.2.  Numerals

Name

Meaning

Reference

.base10

Base-ten (decimal) integer

---

Table 3: Control Operator for Text Conversion of
Integers

The control operator .base10 allows the modeling of text strings that carry an integer number
in decimal form (as a text string with digits in the usual base-ten positional numeral system),
such as in the uint64/int64 formats of YANG-JSON

[RFC7951]
.

yang-json-sid = text .base10 (0..9223372036854775807)

Again, the specification is opinionated by only providing for integer numbers represented
without leading zeros, i.e., the decimal integer numerals match the regular expression 0|-?[1-9]
[0-9]* (of course, this is further restricted by the control type). See Section 2.3 for more
flexibility and for other numeric bases such as octal, hexadecimal, or binary conversions.

Note that this control operator governs text representations of integers and should not be
confused with the control operators governing text representations of byte strings (such as
.b64u). This contrast is somewhat reinforced by spelling out "base" in the name .base10 as
opposed to those of the byte string operators.

2.3.  Printf-Style Formatting

Bormann

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9741

CDDL: More Control Operators for Text

March 2025

Name

Meaning

Reference

.printf

Printf-style formatting of data item(s)

---

Table 4: Control Operator for Printf-Style Formatting of Data Item(s)

The control operator .printf allows the modeling of text strings that carry various formatted
information, as long as the format can be represented in printf-style formatting strings as they
; note that the "C23" standard includes %b
are used in the C language (see Section 7.23.6.1 of
and %B for formatting into binary digits).

[C]

The controller (right-hand side) of the .printf control is an array of one printf-style format
string and zero or more data items that fit the individual conversion specifications in the format
string. The construct matches a text string representing the textual output of an equivalent C-
language printf function call that receives as arguments the format string and the data items
following it in the array.

[C]

, length modifiers (paragraph 7) are not used and

Out of the functionality described for printf formatting in Section 7.23.6.1 of the C language
specification
format string. The "s" conversion specifier (paragraph 8) is used to interpolate a text string in
UTF-8 form. The "c" conversion specifier (paragraph 8) represents a single Unicode scalar value
as a UTF-8 character. The "p" and "n" conversion specifiers (paragraph 8) are not used and
MUST
NOT

 be included in the format string.

 be included in the

MUST NOT

In the following example, my_alg_19 matches the text string "0x0013":

my_alg_19 = hexlabel<19>
hexlabel<K> = text .printf (["0x%04x", K])

The data items in the controller array do not need to be literals, as in the following example:

any_alg = hexlabel<1..20>
hexlabel<K> = text .printf (["0x%04x", K])

Here, any_alg matches the text strings "0x0013" or "0x0001" but not "0x1234".

2.4.  JSON Values

 into text strings. The JSON value of these
Some applications store complete JSON texts
can easily be defined in CDDL by using the default JSON-to-CBOR conversion rules provided in
Section 6.2 of RFC 8949
defined in

. This is supported by a control operator similar to .cbor as

Section 3.8.4 of [RFC8610]
.

[STD94]

[STD90]

Bormann

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9741

CDDL: More Control Operators for Text

March 2025

Name

Meaning

Reference

.json

JSON

[STD90]

Table 5: Control Operator for Text
Conversion of JSON Values

embedded-claims = text .json claims
claims = {iss: text, exp: text}

Notes:

•

[RFC7493]

JSON has known interoperability problems
probably is not relevant to this specification,
 provides requirements
that need to be followed to make use of the generic data model underlying CDDL. Note that
the intention of
[STD94]
. The recommendation to use text strings for representing numbers outside JSON's
interoperable range is a requirement on the application data model and therefore needs to
be reflected on the right-hand side of the .json control operator.

 is directly supported by Section 6.2 of RFC 8949

Section 2.2 of [RFC7493]

Section 2 of [RFC7493]

Section 4 of [RFC7493]

. While

•

This control operator provides no way to constrain the use of blank space or other
serialization variants in the JSON representation of the data items; restrictions on the
serialization to specific variants (e.g., not providing for the addition of any insignificant
blank space and prescribing an order in which map entries are serialized) could be defined
in future control operators.

•

A .jsonseq is not provided in this document for JSON text sequences
, as no use
case for inclusion in CDDL is known at the time of writing; again, future control operators
could address this use case.

[RFC7464]

3.  Text Processing

3.1.  Join

Often, text strings need to be constructed out of parts that can best be modeled as an array.

Name Meaning

Reference

.join

Concatenate elements of an array

---

Table 6: Control Operator for Text Generation from Arrays

For example, an IPv4 address in dotted-decimal might be modeled as in Figure 1.

Bormann

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9741

CDDL: More Control Operators for Text

March 2025

legacy-ip-address = text .join legacy-ip-address-elements
legacy-ip-address-elements = [bytetext, ".", bytetext, ".",
                              bytetext, ".", bytetext]
bytetext = text .base10 byte
byte = 0..255

Figure 1: Using the .join Operator to Build Dotted-Decimal IPv4 Addresses

The elements of the controller array need to be strings (text or byte strings). The control operator
matches a data item if that data item is also a string, built by concatenating the strings in the
array. The result of this concatenation is of the same kind of string (text or bytes) as the first
element of the array. (If there is no element in the array, the .join construct matches either kind
of empty string, obviously further constrained by the control operator target.) The concatenation
is performed on the sequences of bytes in the strings. If the result of the concatenation is a text
string, the resulting sequence of bytes only matches the target data item if that result is a valid
text string (i.e., valid UTF-8). Note that in contrast to the algorithm used in Section 3.2.3 of RFC
8949
constitute valid text strings.

, there is no need for all individual byte sequences going into the concatenation to

[STD94]

Note that this control operator is hard to validate in the most general case, as this would require
full parser functionality. Simple implementation strategies will use array elements with constant
values as guideposts ("markers", such as the "." in Figure 1) for isolating the variable elements
that need further validation at the CDDL data model level. Therefore, it is recommended to limit
the use of .join to simple arrangements where the array elements are laid out explicitly and
there are no adjacent variable elements without intervening constant values, and where these
constant values do not occur within the text described by the variable elements. If more
complex parsing functionality is required, the ABNF control operators (see
[RFC9165]
.join can.

) may be useful; however, these cannot reach back into CDDL-specified elements like

Section 3 of

Implementation note: A validator implementation can use the marker elements to
scan the text and isolate the variable elements. It also can build a parsing regexp
from the elements of the controller array, with capture groups for each element,
and validate the captures against the elements of the array. (For more about parsing
regexps, see
considerations related to regexps.) In the most general case, these implementation
strategies can exhibit false negatives, where the implementation cannot find the
structure that would be successfully validated using the controller; it is
RECOMMENDED
based subset outlined in the previous paragraph.

 that implementations provide full coverage at least for the marker-

Section 6 of [RFC9485]

Section 8 of [RFC9485]

 for security

; see also

4.  IANA Considerations

IANA has registered the contents of Table 7 into the "CDDL Control Operators" registry of
[IANA.cddl]
:

Bormann

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9741

CDDL: More Control Operators for Text

March 2025

Name

.b64u

Reference

RFC 9741

.b64u-sloppy

RFC 9741

.b64c

RFC 9741

.b64c-sloppy

RFC 9741

.b45

.b32

.h32

.hex

.hexlc

.hexuc

.base10

.printf

.json

.join

RFC 9741

RFC 9741

RFC 9741

RFC 9741

RFC 9741

RFC 9741

RFC 9741

RFC 9741

RFC 9741

RFC 9741

Table 7: New Control Operators

5.  Security Considerations

Section 5 of [RFC8610]
The security considerations in
defined in Section 2.1, the security considerations in

 apply. In addition, for the control operators
Section 12 of [RFC4648]

 apply.

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

[C]

International Organization for Standardization "Information technology -
Programming languages - C" Fourth Edition ISO/IEC 9899:2024
<https://www.iso.org/standard/82075.html> Technically equivalent specification
text is available at <https://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg14/www/docs/
n3220.pdf>
.

, October 2024,

,
.

,

,

Bormann

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9741

CDDL: More Control Operators for Text

March 2025

[IANA.cddl]

[RFC2119]

[RFC4648]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8610]

[RFC9165]

[RFC9285]

[RFC9485]

,

IANA "Concise Data Definition Language (CDDL)" <https://www.iana.org/
assignments/cddl>

,

.

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Josefsson, S. "The Base16, Base32, and Base64 Data Encodings" RFC 4648 DOI
10.17487/RFC4648

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4648>

, October 2006,

.

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

, and

Birkholz, H. Vigano, C.
,
(CDDL): A Notational Convention to Express Concise Binary Object
Representation (CBOR) and JSON Data Structures" RFC 8610 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8610

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8610>

C. Bormann "Concise Data Definition Language

, June 2019,

.

,

,

,

Bormann, C. "Additional Control Operators for the Concise Data Definition
Language (CDDL)" RFC 9165 DOI 10.17487/RFC9165
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9165>

, December 2021,

.

,

,

<https://

Fältström, P. Ljunggren, F.
,
9285 DOI 10.17487/RFC9285
,
rfc9285>

.

, and

D.W. van Gulik "The Base45 Data Encoding" RFC

,

,

, August 2022,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

 and

Bormann, C.
Format" RFC 9485 DOI 10.17487/RFC9485
editor.org/info/rfc9485>

,

,

,

.

T. Bray "I-Regexp: An Interoperable Regular Expression

, October 2023,

<https://www.rfc-

[STD90]

Internet Standard 90,
At the time of writing, this STD comprises the following:

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/std90>
.

,

Bray, T., Ed. "The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data Interchange Format"
STD 90 RFC 8259 DOI 10.17487/RFC8259
editor.org/info/rfc8259>

, December 2017,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

,

[STD94]

Internet Standard 94,
At the time of writing, this STD comprises the following:

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/std94>
.

Bormann, C.
STD 94 RFC 8949 DOI 10.17487/RFC8949
editor.org/info/rfc8949>

P. Hoffman "Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR)"
 and
<https://www.rfc-
,

, December 2020,

,

,

.

,

6.2.  Informative References

[RFC7464]

Williams, N. "JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Text Sequences" RFC 7464 DOI
10.17487/RFC7464

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7464>

, February 2015,

,

,

.

Bormann

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9741

CDDL: More Control Operators for Text

March 2025

[RFC7493]

[RFC7951]

[RFC9090]

Bray, T., Ed. "The I-JSON Message Format" RFC 7493 DOI 10.17487/RFC7493
,
March 2015,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7493>

,

.

,

Lhotka, L. "JSON Encoding of Data Modeled with YANG" RFC 7951 DOI
10.17487/RFC7951

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7951>

, August 2016,

,

,

,

.

,

Bormann, C. "Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR) Tags for Object
Identifiers" RFC 9090 DOI 10.17487/RFC9090
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc9090>

<https://www.rfc-

, July 2021,

.

List of Figures

Figure 1: Using the .join Operator to Build Dotted-Decimal IPv4 Addresses

List of Tables

Table 1: Summary of New Control Operators in This Document

Table 2: Control Operators for Text Conversion of Byte Strings

Table 3: Control Operator for Text Conversion of Integers

Table 4: Control Operator for Printf-Style Formatting of Data Item(s)

Table 5: Control Operator for Text Conversion of JSON Values

Table 6: Control Operator for Text Generation from Arrays

Table 7: New Control Operators

Acknowledgements

Laurence Lundblade

 suggested the need for many of the control operators defined here. The author
 for sharpening some of the

Henk Birkholz
would like to thank
mandates,
shepherd for this document and for his shepherd review, the IESG and Directorate reviewers
Éric Vyncke
Ari Keränen Darrel Miller
(notably
,
AD and for providing a detailed AD review.

 for improvements to some examples,

Jeremy O'Donoghue

Mikolai Gütschow

 for serving as

Orie Steele

A.J. Stein

 for serving as responsible

), and

, and

 and

Bormann

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9741

CDDL: More Control Operators for Text

March 2025

Author's Address

Carsten Bormann
Universität Bremen TZI
Postfach 330440
D-28359 Bremen
Germany
Phone:
Email:

+49-421-218-63921
cabo@tzi.org

Bormann

Standards Track

Page 12

