Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9660
Standards Track
October 2024
2070-1721
H. Salgado
NIC Chile

M. Vergara
DigitalOcean

D. Wessels
Verisign

RFC 9660
The DNS Zone Version (ZONEVERSION) Option

Abstract

The DNS ZONEVERSION option is a way for DNS clients to request, and for authoritative DNS
servers to provide, information regarding the version of the zone from which a response is
generated. The SERIAL field from the Start of Authority (SOA) resource record (RR) is a good
example of a zone's version, and it is the only one defined by this specification. Additional
version types may be defined by future specifications.

Including zone version data in a response simplifies and improves the quality of debugging and
diagnostics since the version and the DNS answer are provided atomically. This can be especially
useful for zones and DNS providers that leverage IP anycast or multiple backend systems. It
functions similarly to the DNS Name Server Identifier (NSID) option described in RFC 5001.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9660
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Salgado, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9660

DNS ZONEVERSION Option

October 2024

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

1.2.  Terminology

2.  The ZONEVERSION Option

2.1.  Wire Format

2.2.  Presentation Format

3.  ZONEVERSION Processing

3.1.  Initiators

3.2.  Responders

3.2.1.  Responding to Invalid ZONEVERSION Queries

3.2.2.  ZONEVERSION Is Not Transitive

4.  The SOA-SERIAL ZONEVERSION Type

4.1.  Type SOA-SERIAL Presentation Format

5.  Example Usage

6.  IANA Considerations

6.1.  DNS EDNS(0) Option Code Registration

6.2.  ZONEVERSION TYPE Values Registry

6.2.1.  Designated Expert Review Directives

7.  Security Considerations

8.  Normative References

9.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Implementation Considerations

Appendix B.  Implementation References

Acknowledgements

3

3

4

4

4

5

6

6

6

6

7

7

7

7

8

8

8

9

10

10

11

11

11

12

Salgado, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9660

DNS ZONEVERSION Option

October 2024

Authors' Addresses

12

1.  Introduction

The ZONEVERSION option allows DNS queriers to request, and authoritative DNS servers to
provide, a token representing the version of the zone from which a DNS response was generated.
It is similar to the NSID option
name server that generates a response.

, which can be used to convey the identification of a

[RFC5001]

[RFC3254]

, because synchronization
The Domain Name System allows data to be loosely coherent
can never be instantaneous, and some uses of DNS do not require strong coherency anyway. This
means that a record obtained by one response could be out of sync with other authoritative
sources of the same data at the same point in time. This can make it difficult to debug some
problems when there is a need to couple the data with the version of the zone it came from.
Furthermore, in today's Internet, it is common for high volume and important DNS zones to
utilize IP anycast (
there is no way to ensure that two separate queries are delivered to the same server. The
ZONEVERSION option both simplifies and improves DNS monitoring and debugging by directly
associating the data and the version together in a single response.

) and/or load-balanced backend servers. In general,

Section 4.9 of [RFC4786]

Section 4.3.5 of [RFC1034]

The SOA SERIAL field (
is to facilitate the distribution of zone data between primary and secondary name servers. It is
also often useful in DNS monitoring and debugging. This document specifies the SOA SERIAL as
one type of ZONEVERSION data.

) is one example of zone versioning. Its purpose

Some DNS zones may use other distribution and synchronization mechanisms that are not based
on the SOA SERIAL number, such as relational databases or other proprietary methods. In those
cases, the SOA SERIAL field may not be relevant with respect to the versioning of its content. To
accommodate these use cases, new ZONEVERSION types could be defined in future specifications.
Alternatively, zone operators may use one of the Private Use ZONEVERSION code points allocated
by this specification.

The ZONEVERSION option is
designed for use only when a name server provides authoritative response data. It is intended
only for hop-to-hop communication and is not transitive.

 to implement by DNS clients and name servers. It is

OPTIONAL

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

Salgado, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9660

DNS ZONEVERSION Option

October 2024

1.2.  Terminology

In this document, "original QNAME" is used to mean what the DNS terminology document
[RFC9499]

 calls "QNAME (original)":

The name actually sent in the Question section in the original query, which is always
echoed in the (final) reply in the Question section when the QR bit is set to 1.

In this document, an "enclosing zone" of a domain name means a zone in which the domain
name is present as an owner name or any parent of that zone. For example, if B.C.EXAMPLE and
EXAMPLE are zones but C.EXAMPLE is not, the domain name A.B.C.EXAMPLE has B.C.EXAMPLE,
EXAMPLE, and the root as enclosing zones.

2.  The ZONEVERSION Option

This document specifies a new EDNS(0)
 option, ZONEVERSION, which can be used by
DNS clients and servers to provide information regarding the version of the zone from which a
response is generated.

[RFC6891]

2.1.  Wire Format

The ZONEVERSION option is encoded as follows:

OPTION-CODE for the ZONEVERSION option is 19.

OPTION-LENGTH for the ZONEVERSION option
have the value of the length (in octets) of the OPTION-DATA for responses.

MUST

 have a value of 0 for queries and

MUST

OPTION-DATA for the ZONEVERSION option is omitted in queries. For responses, it is composed
of three fields:

•

an unsigned 1-octet Label Count (LABELCOUNT) indicating the number of labels for the
name of the zone that VERSION value refers to

•

an unsigned 1-octet type number (TYPE) distinguishing the format and meaning of VERSION

•

an opaque octet string conveying the zone version data (VERSION)

Salgado, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9660

DNS ZONEVERSION Option

October 2024

                +0 (MSB)                       +1 (LSB)
   +---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
0: |           LABELCOUNT          |            TYPE               |
   +---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
2: |                            VERSION                            |
   /                                                               /
   +---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+

Figure 1: Diagram with the OPTION-DATA Format for the ZONEVERSION Option

The LABELCOUNT field indicates the name of the zone that the ZONEVERSION option refers to,
by means of taking the last LABELCOUNT labels of the original QNAME. For example, an answer
with QNAME "a.b.c.example.com" and a ZONEVERSION option with a LABELCOUNT of value 2
indicates that the zone name in which this ZONEVERSION refers to is "example.com.".

In the case of a downward referral response, the LABELCOUNT number helps to differentiate
between the parent and child zones, where the parent is authoritative for some portion of the
QNAME above a zone cut. Also, if the ANSWER section has more than one RR set with different
zones (like a CNAME and a target name in another zone), the number of labels in the QNAME
disambiguates such a situation.

The value of the LABELCOUNT field
original QNAME. The value of the LABELCOUNT field
of labels in the original QNAME. The Root zone (".") has a LABELCOUNT field value of 0.

 count the null (root) label that terminates the

 be less than or equal to the number

MUST NOT

MUST

2.2.  Presentation Format

The presentation format of the ZONEVERSION option is as follows:

The OPTION-CODE field

MUST

 be represented as the mnemonic value ZONEVERSION.

The OPTION-LENGTH field
decimal integer.

MAY

 be omitted, but if present, it

MUST

 be represented as an unsigned

The LABELCOUNT value of the OPTION-DATA field
represented as an unsigned decimal integer. The corresponding zone name
(i.e., LABELCOUNT labels of the original QNAME) for easier human consumption.

 be omitted, but if present, it
SHOULD

MAY

 be
MUST
 be displayed

The TYPE and VERSION fields of the option
TYPE.

SHOULD

 be represented according to each specific

Salgado, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9660

DNS ZONEVERSION Option

October 2024

3.  ZONEVERSION Processing

3.1.  Initiators

MAY

A DNS client
empty ZONEVERSION option in the EDNS(0) OPT pseudo-RR of a query to an authoritative name
server. An empty ZONEVERSION option has OPTION-LENGTH set to zero.

 signal its support and desire for zone version information by including an

A DNS client

SHOULD NOT

 send the ZONEVERSION option to non-authoritative name servers.

A DNS client
DNS query.

MUST NOT

 include more than one ZONEVERSION option in the OPT pseudo-RR of a

3.2.  Responders

A name server that (a) understands the ZONEVERSION option, (b) receives a query with the
ZONEVERSION option, (c) is authoritative for one or more enclosing zones of the original
QNAME, and (d) chooses to honor a particular ZONEVERSION request responds by including a
TYPE and corresponding VERSION value in a ZONEVERSION option in an EDNS(0) OPT pseudo-
RR in the response message.

Otherwise, a server

MUST NOT

 include a ZONEVERSION option in the response.

MAY

 include more than one ZONEVERSION option in the response if it supports

A name server
multiple TYPEs. A name server
response if it is authoritative for more than one enclosing zone of the original QNAME. A name
server
LABELCOUNT.

 include more than one ZONEVERSION option for a given TYPE and

 also include more than one ZONEVERSION option in the

MUST NOT

MAY

Note: the ZONEVERSION option should be included for any response satisfying the criteria above
including, but not limited to, the following:

•

Downward referral (see "Referrals" in
Authoritative Answer bit is not set. In this case, the ZONEVERSION data
the version of the referring zone.

Section 4 of [RFC9499]

), even though the response's
MUST

 correspond to

•

Name error (NXDOMAIN), even though the response does not include any Answer section
RRs.

•

NODATA (
section RRs.

Section 3 of [RFC9499]

), even though the response does not include any Answer

•

Server failure (SERVFAIL) when the server is authoritative for the original QNAME.

3.2.1.  Responding to Invalid ZONEVERSION Queries

A name server that understands the ZONEVERSION option
when:

MUST

 return a FORMERR response

•

The ZONEVERSION OPTION-LENGTH is not zero.

Salgado, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9660

DNS ZONEVERSION Option

October 2024

•

More than one ZONEVERSION option is present.

3.2.2.  ZONEVERSION Is Not Transitive

The ZONEVERSION option is not transitive. A name server (recursive or otherwise)
MUST NOT
blindly copy the ZONEVERSION option from a query it receives into a subsequent query that it
sends onward to another server. A name server
client that did not request it.

 send a ZONEVERSION option back to a

MUST NOT

4.  The SOA-SERIAL ZONEVERSION Type

The first and only ZONEVERSION option TYPE defined in this document is a zone's serial number
as found in the Start of Authority (SOA) RR.

As mentioned previously, some DNS zones may use alternative distribution and synchronization
mechanisms that are not based on the SOA SERIAL number, and the SERIAL field may not be
relevant with respect to the versioning of zone content. In those cases, a name server
NOT

 include a ZONEVERSION option with type SOA-SERIAL in a reply.

SHOULD

The value for this type is "0".

The mnemonic for this type is "SOA-SERIAL".

The EDNS(0) OPTION-LENGTH for this type

MUST

 be set to "6" in responses.

The VERSION value for the SOA-SERIAL type
of the SOA RR, as defined in

Section 3.3.13 of [RFC1035]
.

MUST

 be a copy of the unsigned 32-bit SERIAL field

4.1.  Type SOA-SERIAL Presentation Format

The presentation format of this type content is as follows:

The TYPE field

MUST

 be represented as the mnemonic value "SOA-SERIAL".

The VERSION field

MUST

 be represented as an unsigned decimal integer.

5.  Example Usage

A name server that (a) implements this specification, (b) receives a query with the ZONEVERSION
option, (c) is authoritative for the zone of the original QNAME, and (d) utilizes the SOA SERIAL
field for versioning of said zone should include a ZONEVERSION option in its response. In the
response's ZONEVERSION option, the EDNS(0) OPTION-LENGTH would be set to 6 and the
OPTION-DATA would consist of the 1-octet LABELCOUNT, the 1-octet TYPE with value 0, and the
4-octet SOA-SERIAL value.

The example below demonstrates expected output of a diagnostic tool that implements the
ZONEVERSION option, displaying a response from a compliant authoritative DNS server:

Salgado, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9660

DNS ZONEVERSION Option

October 2024

  $ dig @ns.example.com www.example.com aaaa +zoneversion \
  +norecurse +nocmd

  ;; Got answer:
  ;; ->>HEADER<<- opcode: QUERY, status: NOERROR, id: 7077
  ;; flags: qr aa; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 1, AUTHORITY: 1, ADDITIONAL: 2

  ;; OPT PSEUDOSECTION:
  ; EDNS: version: 0, flags:; udp: 1232
  ; ZONEVERSION: 02 00 78 95 a4 e9 ("SOA-SERIAL: 2023073001 \
  ; (example.com.)")
  ;; QUESTION SECTION:
  ;www.example.com.    IN  AAAA

  ;; ANSWER SECTION:
  www.example.com.  43200  IN  AAAA  2001:db8::80

  ;; AUTHORITY SECTION:
  example.com.    43200  IN  NS  ns.example.com.

  ;; ADDITIONAL SECTION:
  ns.example.com.    43200  IN  AAAA  2001:db8::53

  ;; Query time: 15 msec
  ;; SERVER: 2001:db8::53#53(2001:db8::53) (UDP)
  ;; WHEN: dom jul 30 19:51:04 -04 2023
  ;; MSG SIZE  rcvd: 129

Figure 2: Example Usage and Dig Output

6.  IANA Considerations

6.1.  DNS EDNS(0) Option Code Registration

This document defines a new EDNS(0) option, entitled "ZONEVERSION" (see Section 2), with the
assigned value of 19 from the "DNS EDNS0 Option Codes (OPT)" registry:

Value Name

Status

Reference

19

ZONEVERSION Standard

RFC 9660

Table 1: DNS EDNS0 Option Codes (OPT) Registry

6.2.  ZONEVERSION TYPE Values Registry

IANA has created and will maintain a new registry called "ZONEVERSION TYPE Values" in the
"Domain Name System (DNS) Parameters" registry group as follows:

Salgado, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9660

DNS ZONEVERSION Option

October 2024

Range

Registration Procedures

0-245

Specification Required

246-254

Private Use

255

Reserved

Table 2: Registration Procedures for the
ZONEVERSION TYPE Values Registry

Initial values for the "ZONEVERSION TYPE Values" registry are given below; future assignments
. Assignments
in the 1-245 values range are to be made through Specification Required
consist of a TYPE value as an unsigned 8-bit integer recorded in decimal, a Mnemonic name as an
uppercase ASCII string with a maximum length of 15 characters, and the required document
reference.

[RFC8126]

ZONEVERSION TYPE Mnemonic

SOA-SERIAL

Unassigned

0

1-245

246-254

255

Reserved for Private Use

RFC 9660

Reserved

RFC 9660

Reference

RFC 9660

Table 3: ZONEVERSION TYPE Values Registry

The change controller for this registry is IETF.

6.2.1.  Designated Expert Review Directives

The allocation procedure for new code points in the "ZONEVERSION TYPE Values" registry is
[RFC8126]
.
Specification Required, thus review is required by a designated expert as stated in

When evaluating requests, the expert should consider the following:

•

Duplication of code point allocations should be avoided.

•

A Presentation Format section should be provided with a clear code point mnemonic.

•

The referenced document and stated use of the new code point should be appropriate for the
intended use of a ZONEVERSION TYPE assignment. In particular, the reference should state
clear instructions for implementers about the syntax and semantic of the data. Also, the
length of the data must have proper limits.

The expert reviewing the request

MUST

 respond within 10 business days.

Salgado, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9660

DNS ZONEVERSION Option

October 2024

7.  Security Considerations

The EDNS extension data is not covered by RRSIG records, so there's no way to verify its
authenticity nor integrity using DNSSEC, and it could theoretically be tampered with by a person
in the middle if the transport is made by insecure means. Caution should be taken to use the
EDNS ZONEVERSION data for any means besides troubleshooting and debugging.

If there's a need to certify the trustworthiness of ZONEVERSION, it will be necessary to use an
encrypted and authenticated DNS transport, a transaction signature (TSIG)
[RFC2931]
.

[RFC8945]

, or SIG(0)

If there's a need to authenticate the data origin for the ZONEVERSION value, an answer with the
SOA-SERIAL type as defined above could be compared to a separate regular SOA query with a DO
flag, whose answer shall be DNSSEC signed. Since these are separate queries, the caveats about
loose coherency already stated in the Introduction (Section 1) would apply.

With the SOA-SERIAL type defined above, there's no risk on disclosure of private information, as
the SERIAL of the SOA record is already publicly available.

Please note that the ZONEVERSION option cannot be used for checking the correctness of an
entire zone in a server. For such cases, the ZONEMD record
 might be better suited for
such a task. ZONEVERSION can help identify and correlate a specific answer with a version of a
zone, but it has no special integrity or verification function besides a normal field value inside a
zone, as stated above.

[RFC8976]

8.  Normative References

[RFC1034]

[RFC1035]

[RFC2119]

[RFC6891]

[RFC8126]

Mockapetris, P. "Domain names - concepts and facilities" STD 13 RFC 1034 DOI
10.17487/RFC1034

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1034>

, November 1987,

,

,

,

.

Mockapetris, P. "Domain names - implementation and specification" STD 13
,
RFC 1035 DOI 10.17487/RFC1035
info/rfc1035>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, November 1987,

,

,

.

,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Damas, J. Graff, M.
,
STD 75 RFC 6891 DOI 10.17487/RFC6891
,
editor.org/info/rfc6891>

, and

,

.

P. Vixie "Extension Mechanisms for DNS (EDNS(0))"

,

,

, April 2013,

<https://www.rfc-

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

, June

Salgado, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9660

DNS ZONEVERSION Option

October 2024

[RFC8174]

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

.

,

,

9.  Informative References

[ImplRef]

[RFC2931]

[RFC3254]

[RFC4786]

[RFC5001]

[RFC8945]

[RFC8976]

[RFC9499]

"Zoneversion Implementations" commit f5f68a0
github.com/huguei/rrserial>

,

.

, August 2023,

<https://

,

Eastlake 3rd, D. "DNS Request and Transaction Signatures ( SIG(0)s )" RFC 2931
DOI 10.17487/RFC2931
rfc2931>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, September 2000,

,

.

,

Alvestrand, H. "Definitions for talking about directories" RFC 3254 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3254>
10.17487/RFC3254
.

, April 2002,

,

,

,

Abley, J.
 and
DOI 10.17487/RFC4786
rfc4786>

.

K. Lindqvist "Operation of Anycast Services" BCP 126 RFC 4786

,

,

,

,

, December 2006,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

Austein, R. "DNS Name Server Identifier (NSID) Option" RFC 5001 DOI
10.17487/RFC5001

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5001>

, August 2007,

,

,

,

.

,

,
,

Dupont, F. Morris, S. Vixie, P. Eastlake 3rd, D. Gudmundsson, O.
Wellington "Secret Key Transaction Authentication for DNS (TSIG)" STD 93 RFC
8945 DOI 10.17487/RFC8945
,
rfc8945>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, November 2020,

, and
,

B.

,

,

,

.

,

Wessels, D. Barber, P. Weinberg, M. Kumari, W.
Digest for DNS Zones" RFC 8976 DOI 10.17487/RFC8976
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8976>
.

, and

,
,

,

W. Hardaker "Message

,

, February 2021,

<https://

Hoffman, P.
10.17487/RFC9499

 and

K. Fujiwara "DNS Terminology" BCP 219 RFC 9499 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9499>

, March 2024,

,

,

,

,

.

Appendix A.  Implementation Considerations

With very few exceptions, EDNS(0) option values in a response are independent of the queried
name. This is not the case for ZONEVERSION, so its implementation may be more or less difficult,
depending on how EDNS(0) options are handled in the name server.

Appendix B.  Implementation References

There is a patched NSD server (version 4.7.0) with support for ZONEVERSION as well as live test
servers installed for compliance tests. Also, there is a client command "dig" with added
zoneversion support, along with test libraries in Perl, Python, and Go. See
information.

[ImplRef]

 for more

Salgado, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9660

DNS ZONEVERSION Option

October 2024

Acknowledgements

The authors are thankful for all the support and comments made in the DNSOP Working Group
mailing list, chats, and discussions. A special thanks for suggestions to generalize the option
using a registry of types from
from
disambiguation from
Thomassen
.

 and
, clarifications on security from
Brian Dickson

, suggestions for implementation

Stéphane Bortzmeyer

, and reviews from

George Michaelson

Florian Obser

Tim Wicinski

, zone name

Petr Špaček

Joe Abley

Peter

 and

 and

Authors' Addresses

Hugo Salgado
NIC Chile
Miraflores 222, piso 14
CP 8320198 Santiago
Chile
Phone:
Email:

+56 2 29407700
hsalgado@nic.cl

Mauricio Vergara Ereche
DigitalOcean
101 6th Ave
New York NY 10013
,
United States of America
Email:

mvergara@digitalocean.com

,

Duane Wessels
Verisign
12061 Bluemont Way
Reston VA 20190
United States of America
Phone:
Email:
URI:

https://verisign.com

+1 703 948-3200
dwessels@verisign.com

Salgado, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

