Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9394
4731, 5267
Standards Track
June 2023
2070-1721
A. Melnikov
Isode

A. P. Achuthan
Yahoo!

V. Nagulakonda
Yahoo!

L. Alves

RFC 9394
IMAP PARTIAL Extension for Paged SEARCH and
FETCH

Abstract

The PARTIAL extension of the Internet Message Access Protocol (see RFCs 3501 and 9051) allows
clients to limit the number of SEARCH results returned, as well as to perform incremental
(paged) searches. This also helps servers to optimize resource usage when performing searches.

This document extends the PARTIAL SEARCH return option originally specified in RFC 5267. It
also clarifies some interactions between RFC 5267 and RFCs 4731 and 9051.

This document updates RFCs 4731 and 5267.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9394
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Melnikov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9394

IMAP PARTIAL Extension

June 2023

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

This document may contain material from IETF Documents or IETF Contributions published or
made publicly available before November 10, 2008. The person(s) controlling the copyright in
some of this material may not have granted the IETF Trust the right to allow modifications of
such material outside the IETF Standards Process. Without obtaining an adequate license from
the person(s) controlling the copyright in such materials, this document may not be modified
outside the IETF Standards Process, and derivative works of it may not be created outside the
IETF Standards Process, except to format it for publication as an RFC or to translate it into
languages other than English.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction and Overview

2.  Document Conventions

3.  The PARTIAL Extension

3.1.  Incremental SEARCH and Partial Results

3.2.  Interaction between PARTIAL, MIN, MAX, and SAVE SEARCH Return Options

3.3.  Extension to UID FETCH

3.4.  Use of "PARTIAL" and "CONDSTORE" IMAP Extensions Together

4.  Formal Syntax

5.  Security Considerations

6.  IANA Considerations

6.1.  Changes/Additions to the IMAP Capabilities Registry

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

Melnikov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9394

IMAP PARTIAL Extension

June 2023

1.  Introduction and Overview

This document defines an extension to the Internet Message Access Protocol
for performing incremental searches and fetches. This extension is compatible with both
[RFC9051]
IMAP4rev1
defined in

[RFC3501]
[RFC4466]
.

. This extension uses IMAP extensibility rules

 and IMAP4rev2

[RFC3501] [RFC9051]

The PARTIAL extension of the Internet Message Access Protocol allows clients to limit the
number of SEARCH results returned, as well as to perform incremental (paged) searches. This
also helps servers to optimize resource usage when performing searches.

This document extends the PARTIAL SEARCH return option originally specified in RFC 5267. It
also clarifies some interactions between RFC 5267 and RFCs 4731 and 9051.

2.  Document Conventions

In protocol examples, this document uses a prefix of "C: " to denote lines sent by the client to the
server and "S: " for lines sent by the server to the client. Lines prefixed with "// " are comments
explaining the previous protocol line. These prefixes and comments are not part of the protocol.
Lines without any of these prefixes are continuations of the previous line, and no line breaks are
present in the protocol unless specifically mentioned.

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

Other capitalized words are IMAP key words
document.

[RFC3501] [RFC9051]

 or key words from this

3.  The PARTIAL Extension

An IMAP server advertises support for the PARTIAL extension by including the "PARTIAL"
capability in the CAPABILITY response / response code.

3.1.  Incremental SEARCH and Partial Results

The PARTIAL SEARCH return option causes the server to provide in an ESEARCH response
[RFC4731] [RFC9051]
mandatory argument. The first result (message with the lowest matching Unique Identifier (UID))
is 1; thus, the first 500 results would be obtained by a return option of "PARTIAL 1:500" and the
second 500 by "PARTIAL 501:1000". This intentionally mirrors message sequence numbers.

 a subset of the results denoted by the sequence range given as the

Melnikov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9394

IMAP PARTIAL Extension

June 2023

It is also possible to direct the server to start the SEARCH from the latest matching (with the
highest UID) message. This can be done by prepending "-" to the index. For example, -1 is the last
message, -2 is next to the last, and so on. Using this syntax helps server implementations to
optimize their SEARCHes.

A single command
is, either one PARTIAL, one ALL, or neither PARTIAL nor ALL is allowed.

 contain more than one PARTIAL or ALL search return option; that

MUST NOT

For SEARCH results, the entire list of results
or message sequence number order.

MUST

 be ordered in mailbox order -- that is, in UID

In cases where a PARTIAL SEARCH return option references results that do not exist by using a
range that starts or ends higher (or lower) than the current number of results, the server returns
the results that are in the set. This yields a PARTIAL return data item that has, as payload, the
original range and a potentially missing set of results that may be shorter than the extent of the
range. If the whole range references results that do not exist, a special value "NIL" is returned by
the server instead of the sequence set.

Clients need not request PARTIAL results in any particular order. Because mailboxes may
change, clients might wish to use PARTIAL in combination with UPDATE (see
server also advertises the "CONTEXT=SEARCH" capability, especially if the intent is to walk a
large set of results; however, these return options do not interact -- the UPDATE will provide
notifications for all matching results.

[RFC5267]

) if the

  // Let's assume that the A01 SEARCH without PARTIAL would return
  // 23764 results.
  C: A01 UID SEARCH RETURN (PARTIAL -1:-100) UNDELETED
      UNKEYWORD $Junk
  S: * ESEARCH (TAG "A01") UID PARTIAL (-1:-100 ...)
  // 100 most recent results in set syntax elided.
  S: A01 OK Completed.

Melnikov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9394

IMAP PARTIAL Extension

June 2023

  // Let's assume that the A02 SEARCH without PARTIAL would return
  // 23764 results.
  C: A02 UID SEARCH RETURN (PARTIAL 23500:24000) UNDELETED
      UNKEYWORD $Junk
  C: A03 UID SEARCH RETURN (PARTIAL 1:500) UNDELETED
      UNKEYWORD $Junk
  C: A04 UID SEARCH RETURN (PARTIAL 24000:24500) UNDELETED
      UNKEYWORD $Junk
  S: * ESEARCH (TAG "A02") UID PARTIAL (23500:24000 ...)
  // 264 results in set syntax elided;
  // this spans the end of the results.
  S: A02 OK Completed.
  S: * ESEARCH (TAG "A03") UID PARTIAL (1:500 ...)
  // 500 results in set syntax elided.
  S: A03 OK Completed.
  S: * ESEARCH (TAG "A04") UID PARTIAL (24000:24500 NIL)
  // No results are present; this is beyond the end of the results.
  S: A04 OK Completed.

3.2.  Interaction between PARTIAL, MIN, MAX, and SAVE SEARCH Return
Options

This section only applies if the server advertises the "PARTIAL" IMAP capability or
"CONTEXT=SEARCH"
[RFC9051]
.

, together with "ESEARCH"

[RFC5267]

[RFC4731]

 and/or IMAP4rev2

The SAVE result option doesn't change whether the server would return items corresponding to
PARTIAL SEARCH result options.

As specified in Section 3.1, it is an error to specify both the PARTIAL and ALL result options in the
same SEARCH command.

When the SAVE result option is combined with the PARTIAL result option and none of the MIN/
MAX/COUNT result options are present, the corresponding PARTIAL is returned, and the "$"
marker would contain references to all messages returned by the PARTIAL result option.

When the SAVE and PARTIAL result options are combined with the MIN or MAX result option
and the COUNT result option is absent, the corresponding PARTIAL result and MIN/MAX are
returned (if the SEARCH result is not empty), and the "$" marker would contain references to all
messages returned by the PARTIAL result option together with the corresponding MIN/MAX
message.

If the SAVE and PARTIAL result options are combined with both the MIN and MAX result options
and the COUNT result option is absent, the PARTIAL, MIN, and MAX result options are returned
(if the SEARCH result is not empty), and the "$" marker would contain references to all messages
returned by the PARTIAL result option together with the MIN and MAX messages.

If the SAVE and PARTIAL result options are combined with the COUNT result option, the PARTIAL
and COUNT result options are returned, and the "$" marker would always contain references to
all messages found by the SEARCH or UID SEARCH command.

Melnikov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9394

IMAP PARTIAL Extension

June 2023

Table 1 summarizes additional requirements for ESEARCH server implementations described in
this section.

Note regarding Table 1: "[m]" means optional "MIN" and/or "MAX".

Combination of Result Options

"$" Marker Value

SAVE PARTIAL

PARTIAL

SAVE PARTIAL MIN

PARTIAL & MIN

SAVE PARTIAL MAX

PARTIAL & MAX

SAVE PARTIAL MIN MAX

PARTIAL & MIN & MAX

SAVE PARTIAL COUNT [m]

all found messages

Table 1

3.3.  Extension to UID FETCH

The PARTIAL extension also extends the UID FETCH command with a PARTIAL FETCH modifier.
The PARTIAL FETCH modifier has the same syntax as the PARTIAL SEARCH result option. The
presence of the PARTIAL FETCH modifier instructs the server to only return FETCH results for
messages in the specified range. It is useful when the sequence-set (first) parameter in the UID
FETCH command includes an unknown number of messages.

  // Returning information for the last 3 messages in the UID range
  C: 10 UID FETCH 25900:26600 (UID FLAGS) (PARTIAL -1:-3)
  S: * 12888 FETCH (FLAGS (\Seen) UID 25996)
  S: * 12889 FETCH (FLAGS (\Flagged \Answered) UID 25997)
  S: * 12890 FETCH (FLAGS () UID 26600)
  S: 10 OK FETCH completed

  // Returning information for the first 5 messages in the UID range
  C: 11 UID FETCH 25900:26600 (UID FLAGS) (PARTIAL 1:5)
  S: * 12591 FETCH (FLAGS (\Seen) UID 25900)
  S: * 12592 FETCH (FLAGS (\Flagged) UID 25902)
  S: * 12593 FETCH (FLAGS (\Answered) UID 26310)
  S: * 12594 FETCH (FLAGS () UID 26311)
  S: * 12595 FETCH (FLAGS (\Answered) UID 26498)
  S: 11 OK FETCH completed

3.4.  Use of "PARTIAL" and "CONDSTORE" IMAP Extensions Together

This section is informative.

The PARTIAL FETCH modifier can be combined with the CHANGEDSINCE FETCH modifier
[RFC7162]
.

Melnikov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9394

IMAP PARTIAL Extension

June 2023

  // Returning information for the last 30 messages in the UID range
  // that have any flags/keywords modified since MODSEQ 98305
  C: 101 UID FETCH 25900:26600 (UID FLAGS
     ) (PARTIAL -1:-30 CHANGEDSINCE 98305)
  S: * 12888 FETCH (FLAGS (\Flagged \Answered
     ) MODSEQ (98306) UID 25997)
  S: * 12890 FETCH (FLAGS () MODSEQ (98312) UID 26600)
  S: 101 OK FETCH completed

The above example causes the server to first select the last 30 messages and then only return flag
changes for a subset of those messages that have MODSEQ higher than 98305.

Note that the order of PARTIAL and CHANGEDSINCE FETCH modifiers in the UID FETCH
command is not important, i.e., the above example can also use the "UID FETCH 25900:26600
(UID FLAGS) (CHANGEDSINCE 98305 PARTIAL -1:-30)" command and it would result in the same
responses.

4.  Formal Syntax

The following syntax specification uses the Augmented Backus-Naur Form (ABNF) notation as
specified in

[ABNF]
.

Non-terminals referenced but not defined below are as defined by
IMAP4rev2 [RFC9051]
.

IMAP4rev1 [RFC3501]

 or

Except as noted otherwise, all alphabetic characters are case insensitive. The use of uppercase or
lowercase characters to define token strings is for editorial clarity only. Implementations
accept these strings in a case-insensitive fashion.

MUST

Melnikov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9394

IMAP PARTIAL Extension

June 2023

SP                  = <Defined in RFC 5234>
MINUS               = "-"

capability          =/ "PARTIAL"
                       ;; <capability> from [RFC3501].

modifier-partial    = "PARTIAL" SP partial-range

partial-range-first = nz-number ":" nz-number
    ;; Request to search from oldest (lowest UIDs) to
    ;; more recent messages.
    ;; A range 500:400 is the same as 400:500.
    ;; This is similar to <seq-range> from [RFC3501]
    ;; but cannot contain "*".

partial-range-last  = MINUS nz-number ":" MINUS nz-number
    ;; Request to search from newest (highest UIDs) to
    ;; oldest messages.
    ;; A range -500:-400 is the same as -400:-500.

partial-range       = partial-range-first / partial-range-last

search-return-opt   =/ modifier-partial
    ;; All conform to <search-return-opt> from
    ;; [RFC4466] and [RFC9051].

search-return-data  =/ ret-data-partial

ret-data-partial    = "PARTIAL"
                      SP "(" partial-range SP partial-results ")"
    ;; <partial-range> is the requested range.

partial-results     = sequence-set / "NIL"
    ;; <sequence-set> from [RFC3501].
    ;; NIL indicates that no results correspond to
    ;; the requested range.

tagged-ext-simple   =/ partial-range-last

fetch-modifier      =/ modifier-partial
                       ;; <fetch-modifier> from [RFC4466].

5.  Security Considerations

This document defines an additional IMAP4 capability. As such, it does not change the underlying
security considerations of IMAP4rev1
reviewers believe that no new security issues are introduced with these additional IMAP4
capabilities.

. The authors and

 and IMAP4rev2

[RFC3501]

[RFC9051]

Melnikov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9394

IMAP PARTIAL Extension

June 2023

This document defines an optimization that can reduce both the amount of work performed by
the server and the amount of data returned to the client. Use of this extension is likely to cause
the server and the client to use less memory than when the extension is not used. However, as
this is going to be new code in both the client and the server, rigorous testing of such code is
required in order to avoid introducing new implementation bugs.

6.  IANA Considerations

6.1.  Changes/Additions to the IMAP Capabilities Registry

IMAP4 capabilities are registered by publishing a Standards Track or IESG-approved
Informational or Experimental RFC. The registry is currently located at
assignments/imap-capabilities>
.

<https://www.iana.org/

IANA has added the PARTIAL extension to the "IMAP Capabilities" registry with RFC 9394 as the
reference.

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[ABNF]

[RFC2119]

[RFC3501]

[RFC4466]

[RFC4731]

[RFC5267]

[RFC8174]

Crocker, D., Ed.
 and
ABNF" STD 68 RFC 5234 DOI 10.17487/RFC5234
,
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5234>

,

,

.

P. Overell "Augmented BNF for Syntax Specifications:

, January 2008,

<https://

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Crispin, M. "INTERNET MESSAGE ACCESS PROTOCOL - VERSION 4rev1" RFC
3501 DOI 10.17487/RFC3501
,
rfc3501>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, March 2003,

,

.

Melnikov, A.
 and
10.17487/RFC4466

C. Daboo "Collected Extensions to IMAP4 ABNF" RFC 4466 DOI
, April 2006,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4466>

,

,

,

.

 and

Melnikov, A.
Controlling What Kind of Information Is Returned" RFC 4731 DOI 10.17487/
RFC4731

D. Cridland "IMAP4 Extension to SEARCH Command for

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4731>

, November 2006,

,

,

,

.

Cridland, D.
July 2008,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5267>

.

 and

C. King "Contexts for IMAP4" RFC 5267 DOI 10.17487/RFC5267
,

,

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Melnikov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9394

IMAP PARTIAL Extension

June 2023

[RFC9051]

B. Leiba, Ed. "Internet Message Access Protocol (IMAP) -

,

 and

Melnikov, A., Ed.
Version 4rev2" RFC 9051 DOI 10.17487/RFC9051
,
editor.org/info/rfc9051>
.

,

, August 2021,

<https://www.rfc-

7.2.  Informative References

[RFC7162]

 and

D. Cridland "IMAP Extensions: Quick Flag Changes

Melnikov, A.
Resynchronization (CONDSTORE) and Quick Mailbox Resynchronization
(QRESYNC)" RFC 7162 DOI 10.17487/RFC7162
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc7162>

, May 2014,

<https://www.rfc-

,

.

Acknowledgments

This document was motivated by the Yahoo! team and their questions about best client practices
for dealing with large mailboxes.

The authors of this document would like to thank the following people, who provided useful
comments or participated in discussions of this document:

Timo Sirainen

Barry Leiba
.

 and

This document uses a lot of text from RFC 5267. Thus, the work of the RFC 5267 authors --
Cridland

 -- is appreciated.

Curtis King

 and

Dave

Authors' Addresses

Alexey Melnikov
Isode Limited
Email:
URI:

 alexey.melnikov@isode.com

 https://www.isode.com

Arun Prakash Achuthan
Yahoo!
Email:

 arunprakash@myyahoo.com

Vikram Nagulakonda
Yahoo!
Email:

 nvikram_imap@yahoo.com

Luis Alves
Email:

 luis.alves@lafaspot.com

Melnikov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

