Stream:
RFC:
Obsoletes:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9156
7816
Standards Track
November 2021
2070-1721
S. Bortzmeyer
AFNIC

R. Dolmans
NLnet Labs

P. Hoﬀman
ICANN

RFC 9156
DNS Query Name Minimisation to Improve Privacy

Abstract

This document describes a technique called "QNAME minimisation" to improve DNS privacy,
where the DNS resolver no longer always sends the full original QNAME and original QTYPE to the
upstream name server. This document obsoletes RFC 7816.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9156
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

Bortzmeyer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9156

QNAME Minimisation

November 2021

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction and Background

1.1.  Experience from RFC 7816

1.2.  Terminology

2.  Description of QNAME Minimisation

2.1.  QTYPE Selection

2.2.  QNAME Selection

2.3.  Limitation of the Number of Queries

2.4.  Implementation by Stub and Forwarding Resolvers

3.  Algorithm to Perform QNAME Minimisation

4.  QNAME Minimisation Examples

5.  Performance Considerations

6.  Security Considerations

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction and Background

The problem statement for this document is described in
intended to fully solve the DNS privacy problem; instead, it should be viewed as one tool amongst
many.

. This speciﬁc solution is not

[RFC9076]

QNAME minimisation follows the principle explained in
you send out, the fewer privacy problems you have.

Section 6.1 of [RFC6973]

: the less data

Before QNAME minimisation, when a resolver received the query "What is the AAAA record for
www.example.com?", it sent to the root (assuming a resolver, whose cache is empty) the very
same question. Sending the full QNAME to the authoritative name server was a tradition, not a
protocol requirement. In a conversation with one of the authors in January 2015, Paul

Bortzmeyer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9156

QNAME Minimisation

November 2021

Mockapetris explained that this tradition comes from a desire to optimise the number of
requests, when the same name server is authoritative for many zones in a given name
(something that was more common in the old days, where the same name servers served .com
and the root) or when the same name server is both recursive and authoritative (something that
is strongly discouraged now). Whatever the merits of this choice at this time, the DNS is quite
diﬀerent now.

QNAME minimisation is compatible with the current DNS system and therefore can easily be
deployed. Because it is only a change to the way that the resolver operates, it does not change the
DNS protocol itself. The behaviour suggested here (minimising the amount of data sent in
QNAMEs from the resolver) is allowed by

Section 5.3.3 of [RFC1034]

Section 7.2 of [RFC1035]

 and

.

1.1.  Experience from RFC 7816

[RFC7816] [RFC7816]
.

This document obsoletes
were widely deployed since its publication. Many resolver implementations now support QNAME
minimisation. The lessons learned from implementing QNAME minimisation were used to create
this new revision.

 was categorised "Experimental", but ideas from it

Data from DNSThought
[apnic-qnamemin]
already support QNAME minimisation in some way.

[dnsthought-qnamemin]

 shows that a large percentage of the resolvers deployed on the Internet

, Verisign

[verisign-qnamemin]

, and APNIC

Academic research has been performed on QNAME minimisation
shows that QNAME minimisation in relaxed mode causes almost no problems. The paper
recommends using the A QTYPE and limiting the number of queries in some way. Some of the
issues that the paper found are covered in Section 5.

[devries-qnamemin]

. This work

1.2.  Terminology

The terminology used in this document is deﬁned in

[RFC8499]

.

In this document, a "cold" cache is one that is empty, having literally no entries in it. A "warm"
cache is one that has some entries in it.

", "
The key words "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
"
", "
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

2.  Description of QNAME Minimisation

The idea behind QNAME minimisation is to minimise the amount of privacy-sensitive data sent
from the DNS resolver to the authoritative name server. This section describes how to do QNAME
minimisation. The algorithm is summarised in Section 3.

Bortzmeyer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9156

QNAME Minimisation

November 2021

When a resolver is not able to answer a query from cache, it has to send a query to an
authoritative name server. Traditionally, these queries would contain the full QNAME and the
original QTYPE as received in the client query.

The full QNAME and original QTYPE are only needed at the name server that is authoritative for
the record requested by the client. All other name servers queried while resolving the query only
need to receive enough of the QNAME to be able to answer with a delegation. The QTYPE in these
queries is not relevant, as the name server is not able to authoritatively answer the records the
client is looking for. Sending the full QNAME and original QTYPE to these name servers therefore
exposes more privacy-sensitive data than necessary to resolve the client's request.

A resolver that implements QNAME minimisation obscures the QNAME and QTYPE in queries
directed to an authoritative name server that is not known to be responsible for the original
QNAME. These queries contain:

•

a QTYPE selected by the resolver to possibly obscure the original QTYPE

•

the QNAME that is the original QNAME, stripped to just one label more than the longest
matching domain name for which the name server is known to be authoritative

2.1.  QTYPE Selection

Note that this document relaxes the recommendation in
the original QTYPE. Using the NS QTYPE is still allowed. The authority of NS records lies at the child
side. The parent side of the delegation will answer using a referral, like it will do for queries with
other QTYPEs. Using the NS QTYPE therefore has no added value over other QTYPEs.

 to use the NS QTYPE to hide

[RFC7816]

) for which the authority always lies below the zone cut (i.e., not DS, NSEC, NSEC3,

The QTYPE to use while minimising queries can be any possible data type (as deﬁned in
3.1 of [RFC6895]
OPT, TSIG, TKEY, ANY, MAILA, MAILB, AXFR, and IXFR), as long as there is no relation between the
incoming QTYPE and the selection of the QTYPE to use while minimising. The A or AAAA QTYPEs
are always good candidates to use because these are the least likely to raise issues in DNS
software and middleboxes that do not properly support all QTYPEs. QTYPE=A or QTYPE=AAAA
queries will also blend into traﬃc from nonminimising resolvers, making it in some cases harder
to observe that the resolver is using QNAME minimisation. Using a QTYPE that occurs most in
incoming queries will slightly reduce the number of queries, as there is no extra check needed for
delegations on non-apex records.

Section

Bortzmeyer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9156

QNAME Minimisation

November 2021

2.2.  QNAME Selection

). But zone cuts do not necessarily exist at every label boundary. In the

The minimising resolver works perfectly when it knows the zone cut (zone cuts are described in
Section 6 of [RFC2181]
name www.foo.bar.example, it is possible that there is a zone cut between "foo" and "bar" but not
between "bar" and "example". So, assuming that the resolver already knows the name servers of
example, when it receives the query "What is the AAAA record of www.foo.bar.example?", it does
not always know where the zone cut will be. To ﬁnd the zone cut, it will query the example name
servers for a record for bar.example. It will get a non-referral answer, so it has to query the
example name servers again with one more label, and so on. (Section 3 describes this algorithm
in deeper detail.)

2.3.  Limitation of the Number of Queries

When using QNAME minimisation, the number of labels in the received QNAME can inﬂuence the
number of queries sent from the resolver. This opens an attack vector and can decrease
performance. Resolvers supporting QNAME minimisation
the number of outgoing queries per user request.

 implement a mechanism to limit

MUST

Take for example an incoming QNAME with many labels, like
www.host.group.department.example.com, where host.group.department.example.com is hosted
on example.com's name servers. (Such deep domains are especially common under ip6.arpa.)
Assume a resolver that knows only the name servers of example.com. Without QNAME
minimisation, it would send these example.com name servers a query for
www.host.group.department.example.com and immediately get a speciﬁc referral or an answer,
without the need for more queries to probe for the zone cut. For such a name, a cold resolver with
QNAME minimisation will send more queries, one per label. Once the cache is warm, there will be
less diﬀerence with a traditional resolver. Testing of this is described in

[Huque-QNAME-Min]

.

The behaviour of sending multiple queries can be exploited by sending queries with a large
number of labels in the QNAME that will be answered using a wildcard record. Take for example a
record for *.example.com, hosted on example.com's name servers. An incoming query containing
a QNAME with more than 100 labels, ending in example.com, will result in a query per label. By
using random labels, the attacker can bypass the cache and always require the resolver to send
many queries upstream. Note that

 can limit this attack in some cases.

[RFC8198]

MAY

 be used to reduce this attack vector is by appending more than one

One mechanism that
label per iteration for QNAMEs with a large number of labels. To do this, a maximum number of
QNAME minimisation iterations
RECOMMENDED
value is 10. Optionally, a value for the number of queries that should only have one label
appended
the number of labels on delegations higher in the hierarchy are rather small; therefore, not
exposing too many labels early on has the most privacy beneﬁt.

 be selected (MINIMISE_ONE_LAB); a good value is 4. The assumption here is that

 be selected (MAX_MINIMISE_COUNT); a

MUST

MAY

Bortzmeyer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9156

QNAME Minimisation

November 2021

Another potential, optional mechanism for limiting the number of queries is to assume that labels
that begin with an underscore (_) character do not represent privacy-relevant administrative
boundaries. For example, if the QNAME is "_25._tcp.mail.example.org" and the algorithm has
already searched for "mail.example.org", the next query can be for all the underscore-preﬁxed
names together, namely "_25._tcp.mail.example.org".

When a resolver needs to send out a query, it will look for the closest-known delegation point in
its cache. The number of not-yet-exposed labels is the diﬀerence between this closest name server
and the incoming QNAME. The ﬁrst MINIMISE_ONE_LAB labels will be handled as described in
Section 2. The number of labels that are still not exposed now need to be divided proportionally
over the remaining iterations (MAX_MINIMISE_COUNT - MINIMISE_ONE_LAB). If the not-yet-
exposed labels cannot be equally divided over the remaining iterations, the remainder of the
division should be added to the last iterations. For example, when resolving a QNAME with 18
labels with MAX_MINIMISE_COUNT set to 10 and MINIMISE_ONE_LAB set to 4, the number of
labels added per iteration are: 1,1,1,1,2,2,2,2,3,3.

2.4.  Implementation by Stub and Forwarding Resolvers

MAY

 implement QNAME minimisation. Minimising queries that

Stub and forwarding resolvers
will be sent to an upstream resolver does not help in hiding data from the upstream resolver
because all information will end up there anyway. It might however limit the data exposure
between the upstream resolver and the authoritative name server in the situation where the
upstream resolver does not support QNAME minimisation. Using QNAME minimisation in a stub
or forwarding resolver that does not have a mechanism to ﬁnd and cache zone cuts will
drastically increase the number of outgoing queries.

3.  Algorithm to Perform QNAME Minimisation

This algorithm performs name resolution with QNAME minimisation in the presence of zone cuts
that are not yet known.

Although a validating resolver already has the logic to ﬁnd the zone cuts, implementers of
resolvers may want to use this algorithm to locate the zone cuts.

(0)

(1)

If the query can be answered from the cache, do so; otherwise, iterate as follows:

Get the closest delegation point that can be used for the original QNAME from the cache.

(1a)

(1b)

For queries with a QTYPE for which the authority only lies at the parent side (like
QTYPE=DS), this is the NS RRset with the owner matching the most labels with
QNAME stripped by one label. QNAME will be a subdomain of (but not equal to) this
NS RRset. Call this ANCESTOR.

For queries with other original QTYPEs, this is the NS RRset with the owner matching
the most labels with QNAME. QNAME will be equal to or a subdomain of this NS
RRset. Call this ANCESTOR.

(2)

Initialise CHILD to the same as ANCESTOR.

Bortzmeyer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9156

QNAME Minimisation

November 2021

(3)

(4)

(5)

If CHILD is the same as QNAME, or if CHILD is one label shorter than QNAME and the
original QTYPE can only be at the parent side (like QTYPE=DS), resolve the original query as
normal, starting from ANCESTOR's name servers. Start over from step 0 if new names need
to be resolved as a result of this answer, for example, when the answer contains a CNAME
or DNAME

[RFC6672]

 record.

Otherwise, update the value of CHILD by adding the next relevant label or labels from
QNAME to the start of CHILD. The number of labels to add is discussed in Section 2.3.

Look for a cache entry for the RRset at CHILD with the original QTYPE. If the cached
response code is NXDOMAIN and the resolver has support for
can be used in response to the original query, and stop. If the cached response code is
NOERROR (including NODATA), go back to step 3. If the cached response code is NXDOMAIN
and the resolver does not support

, go back to step 3.

, the NXDOMAIN

[RFC8020]

[RFC8020]

(6)

Query for CHILD with the selected QTYPE using one of ANCESTOR's name servers. The
response can be:

(6a)

(6b)

(6c)

(6d)

A referral. Cache the NS RRset from the authority section, and go back to step 1.

A DNAME response. Proceed as if a DNAME is received for the original query. Start
over from step 0 to resolve the new name based on the DNAME target.

All other NOERROR answers (including NODATA). Cache this answer. Regardless of
the answered RRset type, including CNAMEs, continue with the algorithm from step 3
by building the original QNAME.

An NXDOMAIN response. If the resolver supports
response to the original query, and stop. If the resolver does not support
go to step 3.

, return an NXDOMAIN
[RFC8020]
,

[RFC8020]

(6e)

A timeout or response with another RCODE. The implementation may choose to retry
step 6 with a diﬀerent ANCESTOR name server.

4.  QNAME Minimisation Examples

As a ﬁrst example, assume that a resolver receives a request to resolve foo.bar.baz.example.
Assume that the resolver already knows that ns1.nic.example is authoritative for .example and
that the resolver does not know a more speciﬁc authoritative name server. It will send the query
with QNAME=baz.example and the QTYPE selected to hide the original QTYPE to ns1.nic.example.

QTYPE QNAME

TARGET

NOTE

MX

MX

MX

a.b.example.org

root name server

a.b.example.org

org name server

a.b.example.org

example.org name server

Table 1: Cold Cache, Traditional Resolution Algorithm without
QNAME Minimisation, Request for MX Record of a.b.example.org

Bortzmeyer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9156

QNAME Minimisation

November 2021

The following are more detailed examples of requests for an MX record of a.b.example.org with
QNAME minimisation, using A QTYPE to hide the original QTYPE and using other names and
authoritative servers:

QTYPE QNAME

TARGET

NOTE

A

A

A

A

org

root name server

example.org

org name server

b.example.org

example.org name server

a.b.example.org

example.org name server

"a" may be delegated

MX

a.b.example.org

example.org name server

Table 2: Cold Cache with QNAME Minimisation

Note that, in the above example, one query would have been saved if the incoming QTYPE was the
same as the QTYPE selected by the resolver to hide the original QTYPE. Only one query for
a.b.example.org would have been needed if the original QTYPE would have been A. Using the
most-used QTYPE to hide the original QTYPE therefore slightly reduces the number of outgoing
queries compared to using any other QTYPE to hide the original QTYPE.

QTYPE QNAME

TARGET

NOTE

A

A

A

example.org

org name server

b.example.org

example.org name server

a.b.example.org

example.org name server

"a" may be delegated

MX

a.b.example.org

example.org name server

Table 3: Warm Cache with QNAME Minimisation

5.  Performance Considerations

The main goal of QNAME minimisation is to improve privacy by sending less data. However, it
may have other advantages. For instance, if a resolver sends a root name server queries for
A.example followed by B.example followed by C.example, the result will be three NXDOMAINs,
since .example does not exist in the root zone. When using QNAME minimisation, the resolver
would send only one question (for .example itself) to which they could answer NXDOMAIN. The
[RFC8020]
.
resolver can cache this answer and use it to prove that nothing below .example exists
A resolver now knows a priori that neither B.example nor C.example exist. Thus, in this common
case, the total number of upstream queries under QNAME minimisation could be
counterintuitively less than the number of queries under the traditional iteration (as described in
the DNS standard).

Bortzmeyer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9156

QNAME Minimisation

November 2021

QNAME minimisation can increase the number of queries based on the incoming QNAME. This is
described in Section 2.3. As described in
increases the number of DNS lookups by up to 26% and leads to up to 5% more failed lookups.
Filling the cache in a production resolver will soften that overhead.

, QNAME minimisation both

[devries-qnamemin]

6.  Security Considerations

QNAME minimisation's beneﬁts are clear in the case where you want to decrease exposure of the
queried name to the authoritative name server. But minimising the amount of data sent also, in
part, addresses the case of a wire sniﬀer as well as the case of privacy invasion by the
authoritative name servers. Encryption is of course a better defense against wire sniﬀers, but,
unlike QNAME minimisation, it changes the protocol and cannot be deployed unilaterally. Also,
the eﬀect of QNAME minimisation on wire sniﬀers depends on whether the sniﬀer is on the DNS
path.

QNAME minimisation oﬀers no protection against the recursive resolver, which still sees the full
request coming from the stub resolver.

A resolver using QNAME minimisation can possibly be used to cause a query storm to be sent to
servers when resolving queries containing a QNAME with a large number of labels, as described
in Section 2.3. That section proposes methods to signiﬁcantly dampen the eﬀects of such attacks.

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[RFC1034]

[RFC1035]

[RFC2119]

[RFC6973]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8499]

Mockapetris, P. "Domain names - concepts and facilities" STD 13 RFC 1034 DOI
10.17487/RFC1034

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1034>
.

, November 1987,

,

,

,

Mockapetris, P. "Domain names - implementation and speciﬁcation" STD 13
,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/
RFC 1035 DOI 10.17487/RFC1035
info/rfc1035>
.

, November 1987,

,

,

,

,
Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
,
, March 1997,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
.
rfc2119>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

,
Cooper, A. Tschofenig, H. Aboba, B. Peterson, J. Morris, J. Hansen, M.
Smith "Privacy Considerations for Internet Protocols" RFC 6973 DOI 10.17487/
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6973>
RFC6973

, July 2013,

, and

R.

,

,

,

,

,

,

,
,
Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
.
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,
Hoﬀman, P. Sullivan, A.
DOI 10.17487/RFC8499

, and

,
K. Fujiwara "DNS Terminology" BCP 219 RFC 8499
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8499>

,

,

,

, January 2019,

Bortzmeyer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9156

QNAME Minimisation

November 2021

7.2.  Informative References

[apnic-qnamemin]

Huston, G.
September 2020,
attachments/777/1326/2020-09-28-oarc33-qname-minimisation.pdf>
.

,
 and
J. Damas "Measuring Query Name Minimization"
<https://indico.dns-oarc.net/event/34/contributions/787/

,

[devries-qnamemin]

,

, and
de Vries, W. Scheitle, Q. Müller, M. Toorop, W. Dolmans, R.
Rijswijk-Deij "A First Look at QNAME Minimization in the Domain Name
System"
.
devries2019.pdf>

<https://nlnetlabs.nl/downloads/publications/

, March 2019,

,

,

,

,

R. van

[dnsthought-qnamemin]

"Qname Minimisation"

, October 2021,

<https://

.
dnsthought.nlnetlabs.nl/#qnamemin>

[Huque-QNAME-Min]

Huque, S. "Query name minimization and authoritative server

,

behavior"

, May 2015,

.
<https://indico.dns-oarc.net/event/21/contribution/9>

[RFC2181]

[RFC6672]

[RFC6895]

[RFC7816]

[RFC8020]

[RFC8198]

[RFC9076]

 and
Elz, R.
10.17487/RFC2181

R. Bush "Clariﬁcations to the DNS Speciﬁcation" RFC 2181 DOI

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2181>

,
, July 1997,

,

 and

Rose, S.
10.17487/RFC6672

W. Wijngaards "DNAME Redirection in the DNS" RFC 6672 DOI

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6672>

,
, June 2012,

,

Eastlake 3rd, D. "Domain Name System (DNS) IANA Considerations" BCP 42 RFC
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6895>
6895 DOI 10.17487/RFC6895

, April 2013,

,

,

,

,

,
Bortzmeyer, S. "DNS Query Name Minimisation to Improve Privacy" RFC 7816
DOI 10.17487/RFC7816

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7816>

, March 2016,

,

,

 and

Bortzmeyer, S.
RFC 8020 DOI 10.17487/RFC8020
.
info/rfc8020>

,

,

,
S. Huque "NXDOMAIN: There Really Is Nothing Underneath"

, November 2016,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

,

Fujiwara, K. Kato, A.
,
Cache" RFC 8198 DOI 10.17487/RFC8198
.
info/rfc8198>

, and

,

,

W. Kumari "Aggressive Use of DNSSEC-Validated

, July 2017,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

,
Wicinski, T., Ed. "DNS Privacy Considerations" RFC 9076 DOI 10.17487/RFC9076
July 2021,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9076>

,

,

,

[verisign-qnamemin]

Thomas, M. "Maximizing Qname Minimization: A New Chapter in DNS

Protocol Evolution"
.
maximizing-qname-minimization-a-new-chapter-in-dns-protocol-evolution/>

<https://blog.verisign.com/security/

,
, September 2020,

Acknowledgments

The acknowledgments from RFC 7816 apply here. In addition, many participants from the DNSOP
Working Group helped with proposals for simpliﬁcation, clariﬁcation, and general editorial help.

Bortzmeyer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9156

QNAME Minimisation

November 2021

Authors' Addresses

Stephane Bortzmeyer
AFNIC
1, rue Stephenson
78180 Montigny-le-Bretonneux
France
Phone:
Email:
URI:

 +33 1 39 30 83 46
 bortzmeyer+ietf@nic.fr

 https://www.afnic.fr/

Ralph Dolmans
NLnet Labs
Email:

 ralph@nlnetlabs.nl

Paul Hoﬀman
ICANN
Email:

 paul.hoﬀman@icann.org

Bortzmeyer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

