Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9931
9112, 9298
Standards Track
March 2026
2070-1721
B. Schwartz
Meta Platforms, Inc.

RFC 9931
Security Considerations for Optimistic Protocol
Transitions in HTTP/1.1

Abstract

In HTTP/1.1, the client can request a change to a new protocol on the existing connection. This
document discusses the security considerations that apply to data sent by the client before this
request is confirmed and adds new requirements to RFCs 9112 and 9298 to avoid related
security issues.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9931
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2026 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in effect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Schwartz

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9931

Optimistic HTTP Upgrade Security

March 2026

Table of Contents

1.  Overview

2.  Requirements Language

3.  Background

4.  Possible Security Issues

4.1.  Request Smuggling

4.2.  Parser Exploits

5.  Operational Issues

6.  Impact on HTTP Upgrade with Existing Upgrade Tokens

6.1.  "TLS"

6.2.  "WebSocket"/"websocket"

6.3.  "connect-udp"

6.4.  "connect-ip"

7.  Guidance for Future Upgrade Tokens

7.1.  Selection of Request Methods

8.  Requirements for HTTP CONNECT

9.  Security Considerations

10. IANA Considerations

11. References

11.1.  Normative References

11.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Author's Address

3

3

3

5

5

6

6

7

7

7

7

8

8

8

8

9

9

9

9

10

10

11

Schwartz

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9931

Optimistic HTTP Upgrade Security

March 2026

1.  Overview

This document discusses certain security considerations that arise when switching from HTTP/
1.1 to a different protocol on the same connection. It provides:

•

a review of the relevant standards,

•

a discussion of the security risks that may apply if a client sends data before the transition is
confirmed,

•

a security evaluation of existing upgrade tokens, and

•

guidance for implementations and future standards documents.

[CONNECT-UDP]
Updates to
provided in Sections 8 and 6.3, respectively.

[HTTP/1.1]

 and

, including new normative requirements, are

2.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Background

[HTTP/1.1]

 and later, a single connection can be used for many requests. In HTTP/2

In HTTP/1.1
[HTTP/2]
distinguished explicitly by its stream ID. However, in HTTP/1.1, requests are strictly sequential,
and each new request is distinguished implicitly by the closure of the preceding request.

, these requests can be multiplexed, as each request is

 and HTTP/3

[HTTP/3]

HTTP/1.1 is also the only version of HTTP that allows the client to change the protocol used for
the remainder of the connection. There are two mechanisms to request such a protocol
transition. One mechanism is the Upgrade header field (
request, this field indicates that the client would like to use this connection for a protocol other
than HTTP/1.1. The server replies with a 101 (Switching Protocols) status code if it accepts the
protocol change (

[HTTP], Section 15.2.2

[HTTP], Section 7.8

). When included in a

).

The other mechanism is the HTTP CONNECT method (
indicates that the client wishes to establish a TCP connection to the specified host and port. If
accepted, the server replies with a 2xx (Successful) response to indicate that the request was
accepted and a TCP connection was established. After this point, the TCP connection is acting as
a TCP tunnel, not an HTTP/1.1 connection.

Section 9.3.6 of [HTTP]

). This method

Both of these mechanisms also permit the server to reject the request. For example,
of [HTTP]

 says:

Section 7.8

Schwartz

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9931

Optimistic HTTP Upgrade Security

March 2026

A server
current protocol on that connection.

MAY

 ignore a received Upgrade header field if it wishes to continue using the

and

Section 9.3.6 of [HTTP]

 says:

A server
typically by responding with a 400 (Bad Request) status code.

 reject a CONNECT request that targets an empty or invalid port number,

MUST

Rejected upgrades are common and can happen for a variety of reasons, such as:

•

The server does not support any of the client's indicated upgrade tokens (i.e., the client's
proposed new protocols), so it continues to use HTTP/1.1.

•

The server knows that an upgrade to the offered protocol will not provide any improvement
over HTTP/1.1 for this request to this resource, so it chooses to respond in HTTP/1.1.

•

The server requires the client to authenticate before upgrading the protocol, so it replies
with the status code 401 (Authentication Required) and provides a challenge in an
Authorization response header field (

[HTTP], Section 11.6.2

).

•

The resource has moved, so the server replies with a 3xx (Redirection) status code (
Section 3.4

).

[HTTP],

Similarly, servers frequently reject HTTP CONNECT requests, such as when:

•

The server does not support HTTP CONNECT.

•

The specified destination is not allowed under server policy.

•

The destination cannot be resolved, is unreachable, or does not accept the connection.

•

The proxy requires the client to authenticate before proceeding.

After rejecting a request, the server will continue to interpret bytes received on that connection
in accordance with HTTP/1.1.

Section 7.8 of [HTTP]

 also states:

A client cannot begin using an upgraded protocol on the connection until it has
completely sent the request message (i.e., the client can't change the protocol it is
sending in the middle of a message).

In other words, completion of the request message is a necessary condition for the client to
begin using the new protocol. However, it is important to clarify that this is not a sufficient
condition because the server might reject the request.

Schwartz

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9931

Optimistic HTTP Upgrade Security

March 2026

In some cases, the client might predict that the server is likely to accept a requested protocol
transition. For example, if a request using an upgrade token recently succeeded, the client might
expect that subsequent requests with the same upgrade token will also succeed. If this
expectation is correct, the client can often reduce delay by immediately sending the first bytes of
the new protocol "optimistically", without waiting for the server's response. This document
explores the security implications of this "optimistic" behavior.

4.  Possible Security Issues

When there are only two distinct parties involved in an HTTP/1.1 connection (i.e., the client and
the server), protocol transitions introduce no new security issues: Each party must already be
prepared for the other to send arbitrary data on the connection at any time. However, HTTP
connections often involve more than two parties if the requests or responses include third-party
data. For example, a browser (party 1) might send an HTTP request to an origin (party 2) with
the path, headers, or content controlled by a website from a different origin (party 3). Post-
transition protocols, such as WebSocket
chosen by a third party.

, are also frequently used to convey data

[WEBSOCKET]

If the third-party data source is untrusted, then the data it provides is potentially "attacker-
controlled". The combination of attacker-controlled data and optimistic protocol transitions
results in two significant security issues.

4.1.  Request Smuggling

[HTTP/1.1], Section 11.2

In a Request Smuggling attack (
), the attacker-controlled data is chosen in
such a way that it is interpreted by the server as an additional HTTP request. These attacks allow
the attacker to speak on behalf of the client while bypassing the client's own rules about what
requests it will issue. Request Smuggling can occur if the client and server have distinct
interpretations of the data that flows between them.

If the server accepts a protocol transition request, it interprets the subsequent bytes in
accordance with the new protocol. If it rejects the request, it interprets those bytes as HTTP/1.1.
However, the client cannot know which interpretation the server will take until it receives the
server's response status code. If it uses the new protocol optimistically, this creates a risk that the
server will interpret attacker-controlled data in the new protocol as an additional HTTP request
issued by the client.

As a trivial example, consider an HTTP CONNECT client providing connectivity to an untrusted
application. If the client is authenticated to the proxy server using a connection-level
authentication method such as TLS Client Certificates (
send an HTTP/1.1 POST request (
) for the proxy server at the beginning of its
TCP connection. If the client delivers this data optimistically, and the CONNECT request fails, the
server would misinterpret the application's data as a subsequent authenticated request issued
by the client.

[HTTP], Section 9.3.3

), the attacker could

[TLS], Section 4.4.2

Schwartz

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9931

Optimistic HTTP Upgrade Security

March 2026

## REQUESTS ##

# The malicious application requests a TCP connection to a nonexistent
# destination, which will fail.
CONNECT no-such-destination.example:443 HTTP/1.1
Host: no-such-destination.example:443

# Before connection fails, the malicious application sends data on the
# proxied TCP connection that forms a valid POST request to the proxy.
# The vulnerable client optimistically forwards this data to the proxy.
POST /upload HTTP/1.1
Host: proxy.example
Content-Length: 123456

<POST body controlled by the malicious application>

## RESPONSES ##

# When TCP connection establishment fails, the proxy responds by
# rejecting the CONNECT request, but the client has already forwarded
# the malicious TCP payload data to the proxy.
HTTP/1.1 504 Gateway Timeout
Content-Length: 0

# The proxy interprets the smuggled POST request as coming from the
# client.  If connection-based authentication is in use (e.g., using
# TLS client certificate authentication), the proxy treats this
# malicious request as authenticated.
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Length: 0

Figure 1: Example Request Smuggling Attack Using HTTP CONNECT

4.2.  Parser Exploits

A related category of attacks use protocol disagreement to exploit vulnerabilities in the server's
request parsing logic. These attacks apply when the HTTP client is trusted by the server, but the
post-transition data source is not. If the server software was developed under the assumption
that some or all of the HTTP request data is not attacker-controlled, optimistic transmission can
cause this assumption to be violated, exposing vulnerabilities in the server's HTTP request
parser.

5.  Operational Issues

If the server rejects the transition request, the connection can continue to be used for HTTP/1.1.
There is no general requirement to close the connection in response to a rejected transition, and
keeping the connection open has performance advantages if additional HTTP requests to this
server are likely. Thus, it is normally inappropriate to close the connection in response to a
rejected transition.

Schwartz

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9931

Optimistic HTTP Upgrade Security

March 2026

6.  Impact on HTTP Upgrade with Existing Upgrade Tokens

This section describes the impact of this document's considerations on some registered upgrade
tokens

 that are believed to be in use at the time of writing.

[IANA-UPGR]

6.1.  "TLS"

The "TLS" family of upgrade tokens was defined in
possibility of the server rejecting the upgrade. If a client ignores this possibility and sends TLS
data optimistically, the result cannot be valid HTTP/1.1: The first octet of a TLS connection must
be 22 (ContentType.handshake), but this is not an allowed character in an HTTP/1.1 method (see
[TLS], Section 5.1
parsing error and close the connection without processing further requests.

). A compliant HTTP/1.1 server will treat this as a

, which correctly highlights the

[HTTP/1.1], Section 3

[RFC2817]

 and

6.2.  "WebSocket"/"websocket"

Section 4.1 of [WEBSOCKET]

 says:

Once the client's opening handshake has been sent, the client
from the server before sending any further data.

MUST

 wait for a response

Thus, optimistic use of HTTP Upgrade is already forbidden in the WebSocket protocol.
Additionally, the WebSocket protocol requires high-entropy masking of client-to-server frames
Section 5.1 of [WEBSOCKET]
(

).

6.3.  "connect-udp"

Section 5 of [CONNECT-UDP]

 says:

MAY

A client
receiving the response to its UDP proxying request.

 optimistically start sending UDP packets in HTTP Datagrams before

However, in HTTP/1.1, this "proxying request" is an HTTP Upgrade request. This upgrade is likely
to be rejected in certain circumstances, such as when the UDP destination address (which is
attacker-controlled) is invalid. Additionally, the contents of the "connect-udp" protocol stream
can include untrusted material (i.e., the UDP packets, which might come from other applications
on the client device). This creates the possibility of Request Smuggling attacks. To avoid these
concerns, this document replaces that text to exclude HTTP/1.1 from any optimistic sending, as
follows:

Schwartz

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9931

Optimistic HTTP Upgrade Security

March 2026

MAY

 optimistically start sending UDP packets in HTTP Datagrams before

A client
receiving the response to its UDP proxying request but only if the HTTP version in use is
HTTP/2 or later. Clients
the risk of Request Smuggling attacks.

 send UDP packets optimistically in HTTP/1.x due to

MUST NOT

6.4.  "connect-ip"

The "connect-ip" upgrade token is defined in
clients from sending packets optimistically in HTTP/1.1, avoiding this issue.

[CONNECT-IP] Section 11 of [CONNECT-IP]

.

 forbids

7.  Guidance for Future Upgrade Tokens

There are now several good examples of designs that reduce or eliminate the security concerns
discussed in this document and may be applicable in future specifications:

•

Forbid optimistic use of HTTP Upgrade (
[CONNECT-IP]

).

Section 4.1 of [WEBSOCKET]

 and

Section 11 of

•

Embed a fixed preamble that deliberately terminates HTTP/1.1 processing (
[HTTP/2]

).

Section 3.4 of

•

Apply high-entropy masking of client-to-server data (

Section 5.1 of [WEBSOCKET]

).

Future specifications for upgrade tokens should account for the security issues discussed here
and provide clear guidance on how implementations can avoid them.

7.1.  Selection of Request Methods

Some upgrade tokens, such as "TLS", are defined for use with any ordinary HTTP method. The
upgraded protocol continues to provide HTTP semantics and will convey the response to this
HTTP request.

The other upgrade tokens mentioned in Section 6 do not preserve HTTP semantics, so the
method is not relevant. All of these upgrade tokens are specified only for GET requests with no
content.

Future specifications for upgrade tokens should restrict their use to GET requests with no
content if the HTTP method is otherwise irrelevant and the request does not need to carry any
message content. This improves consistency with other upgrade tokens and simplifies server
implementation.

8.  Requirements for HTTP CONNECT

This document updates
requirements in this section apply only to HTTP/1.1.

[HTTP/1.1]

 to include the remaining text of this section. The

Schwartz

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9931

Optimistic HTTP Upgrade Security

March 2026

Proxy clients that send CONNECT requests on behalf of untrusted TCP clients
both of the following:

MUST

 do one or

1.

Wait for a 2xx (Successful) response before forwarding any TCP payload data.

2.

Send a "Connection: close" request header.

Proxy clients that don't implement at least one of these two behaviors are vulnerable to a trivial
Request Smuggling attack (

[HTTP/1.1], Section 11.2

).

At the time of writing, some proxy clients are believed to be vulnerable as described. As a
mitigation, proxy servers
request without processing any further requests on that connection. This requirement applies
whether or not the request includes a "close" connection option.

 close the underlying connection when rejecting a CONNECT

MUST

Note that this mitigation will frequently cause slower connection establishment for correctly
implemented clients, especially when returning a 407 (Proxy Authentication Required) response.
This performance loss can be avoided by using HTTP/2 or HTTP/3, which are not vulnerable to
this attack.

As a performance optimization, proxy servers
to wait for a 2xx (Successful) response before forwarding untrusted TCP payload data (i.e.,
complying with item 1 above). Proxy servers can identify compliant clients using the request's
User-Agent header field and the user agent vendor's documentation regarding its compliance.

 disable this mitigation if the client is known

MAY

9.  Security Considerations

This document describes security considerations related to optimistic use of protocol transitions
in HTTP/1.1.

10.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

11.  References

11.1.  Normative References

[CONNECT-UDP]

Schinazi, D. "Proxying UDP in HTTP" RFC 9298 DOI 10.17487/RFC9298

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9298>

,

,

August 2022,

.

,

[HTTP]

[HTTP/1.1]

,

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
97 RFC 9110 DOI 10.17487/RFC9110
rfc9110>

,

,

.

, and
, June 2022,

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP Semantics" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

,

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
9112 DOI 10.17487/RFC9112
,
rfc9112>

.

, June 2022,

, and

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP/1.1" STD 99 RFC

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

Schwartz

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9931

Optimistic HTTP Upgrade Security

March 2026

[RFC2119]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

.

,

,

,

11.2.  Informative References

[CONNECT-IP]

[HTTP/2]

[HTTP/3]

[IANA-UPGR]

[RFC2817]

[TLS]

[WEBSOCKET]

,

Pauly, T., Ed. Schinazi, D. Chernyakhovsky, A. Kühlewind, M.
Westerlund "Proxying IP in HTTP" RFC 9484 DOI 10.17487/RFC9484
,
2023,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9484>

, and

,

,

,

.

M.

, October

Thomson, M., Ed.
RFC9113

, June 2022,

 and

C. Benfield, Ed. "HTTP/2" RFC 9113 DOI 10.17487/
,

,

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9113>

.

Bishop, M., Ed. "HTTP/3" RFC 9114 DOI 10.17487/RFC9114
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9114>

,

,

,

.

, June 2022,

<https://

,

IANA "Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) Upgrade Token Registry" <https://
www.iana.org/assignments/http-upgrade-tokens/>

,

.

Khare, R.
10.17487/RFC2817

 and

S. Lawrence "Upgrading to TLS Within HTTP/1.1" RFC 2817 DOI

,

,

,

, May 2000,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2817>

.

Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
,
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>

, August 2018,

,

.

Fette, I.
RFC6455

,
 and
, December 2011,

A. Melnikov "The WebSocket Protocol" RFC 6455 DOI 10.17487/

,

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6455>

.

Acknowledgments

This document benefited from valuable reviews and suggestions by:

• Mike Bishop

• Mohamed Boucadair

• Gorry Fairhurst

• Mark Nottingham

• Kazuho Oku

• Lucas Pardue

• David Schinazi

• Glenn Strauss

• Michael Sweet

• Willy Tarreau

• Martin Thomson

Schwartz

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9931

Optimistic HTTP Upgrade Security

March 2026

Author's Address

Benjamin M. Schwartz
Meta Platforms, Inc.
Email:

ietf@bemasc.net

Schwartz

Standards Track

Page 11

