Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9247
Standards Track
June 2022
2070-1721
Z. Li
Huawei

K. Talaulikar,
Arrcus, Inc.

S. Zhuang
Huawei

 Ed.

S. Aldrin
Google, Inc.

J. Tantsura
Microsoft

Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

G. Mirsky
Ericsson

RFC 9247
BGP - Link State (BGP-LS) Extensions for Seamless
Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (S-BFD)

Abstract

Seamless Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (S-BFD) deﬁnes a simpliﬁed mechanism to use
Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD) with large portions of negotiation aspects eliminated,
thus providing beneﬁts such as quick provisioning as well as improved control and ﬂexibility to
network nodes initiating the path monitoring. The link-state routing protocols (IS-IS and OSPF)
have been extended to advertise the S-BFD Discriminators.

This document deﬁnes extensions to the BGP - Link State (BGP-LS) address family to carry the S-
BFD Discriminators' information via BGP.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9247
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9247

BGP-LS Extensions for S-BFD

June 2022

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

2.1.  Requirements Language

3.  BGP-LS Extensions for S-BFD Discriminators

4.  IANA Considerations

5.  Manageability Considerations

6.  Security Considerations

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

Seamless Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (S-BFD)
to use Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD)
aspects eliminated, thus providing beneﬁts such as quick provisioning as well as improved
control and ﬂexibility to network nodes initiating the path monitoring.

 with large portions of negotiation

 deﬁnes a simpliﬁed mechanism

[RFC5880]

[RFC7880]

For the monitoring of a service path end to end via S-BFD, the headend node (i.e., Initiator) needs
to know the S-BFD Discriminator of the destination/tail-end node (i.e., Responder) of that service.
The link-state routing protocols (IS-IS
advertise the S-BFD Discriminators. With this, an Initiator can learn the S-BFD Discriminator for
all Responders within its IGP area/level or optionally within the domain. With networks being
divided into multiple IGP domains for scaling and operational considerations, the service
endpoints that require end-to-end S-BFD monitoring often span across IGP domains.

) have been extended to

 and OSPF

[RFC7884]

[RFC7883]

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9247

BGP-LS Extensions for S-BFD

June 2022

[RFC7752]

BGP - Link State (BGP-LS)
topology information via BGP sessions across IGP areas/levels and domains. The S-BFD
Discriminator(s) of a node can thus be distributed along with the topology information via BGP-
LS across IGP domains and even across multiple Autonomous Systems (ASes) within an
administrative domain.

 enables the collection and distribution of IGP link-state

This document deﬁnes extensions to BGP-LS for carrying the S-BFD Discriminators' information.

2.  Terminology

This memo makes use of the terms deﬁned in

[RFC7880]

.

2.1.  Requirements Language

The key words "
", "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
", "
"
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

3.  BGP-LS Extensions for S-BFD Discriminators

[RFC7752]

BGP-LS
advertisement of nodes and their attributes using the BGP-LS Attribute. The S-BFD Discriminators
of a node are considered a node-level attribute and are advertised as such.

 speciﬁes the Node Network Layer Reachability Information (NLRI) for the

This document deﬁnes a new BGP-LS Attribute TLV called "S-BFD Discriminators TLV", and its
format is as follows:

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|              Type             |             Length            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                         Discriminator 1                       |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                    Discriminator 2 (Optional)                 |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                               ...                             |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                    Discriminator n (Optional)                 |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 1: S-BFD Discriminators TLV

where:

Type:

1032

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9247

BGP-LS Extensions for S-BFD

June 2022

Length:

variable. It
additional discriminator.

MUST

 be a minimum of 4 octets, and it increments by 4 octets for each

Discriminator n:

4 octets each, carrying an S-BFD local discriminator value of the node. At least

one discriminator

MUST

 be included in the TLV.

The S-BFD Discriminators TLV can be added to the BGP-LS Attribute associated with the Node
NLRI that originates the corresponding underlying IGP TLV/sub-TLV as described below. This
information is derived from the protocol-speciﬁc advertisements as follows:

•

IS-IS, as deﬁned by the S-BFD Discriminators sub-TLV in

[RFC7883]

.

•

OSPFv2/OSPFv3, as deﬁned by the S-BFD Discriminator TLV in

[RFC7884]

.

4.  IANA Considerations

IANA has permanently allocated the following code point in the "BGP-LS Node Descriptor, Link
Descriptor, Preﬁx Descriptor, and Attribute TLVs" registry. The column "IS-IS TLV/Sub-TLV" deﬁned
in the registry does not require any value and should be left empty.

TLV Code Point Description

Reference

1032

S-BFD Discriminators

This document

Table 1: S-BFD Discriminators TLV Code Point Allocation

5.  Manageability Considerations

The new protocol extensions introduced in this document augment the existing IGP topology
information that was distributed via BGP-LS
. Procedures and protocol extensions
deﬁned in this document do not aﬀect BGP protocol operations and management other than as
discussed in "Manageability Considerations" (Section 6) of
NLRIs attribute tests in "Fault Management" (Section 6.2.2) of
TLV for the BGP-LS NLRI in this document.

. Speciﬁcally, the malformed
 now encompass the new

[RFC7752]

[RFC7752]

[RFC7752]

6.  Security Considerations

The new protocol extensions introduced in this document augment the existing IGP topology
information that can be distributed via BGP-LS
deﬁned in this document do not aﬀect the BGP security model other than as discussed in "Security
Considerations" (Section 8) of
consumers with which the topology information is shared via BGP-LS to trusted entities within an
administrative domain.

, i.e., the aspects related to limiting the nodes and

. Procedures and protocol extensions

[RFC7752]

[RFC7752]

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9247

BGP-LS Extensions for S-BFD

June 2022

[RFC7884]

The TLV introduced in this document is used to propagate IGP-deﬁned information (see
and
originating this information are assumed to support any required security and authentication
mechanisms (as described in

). The TLV represents information used to set up S-BFD sessions. The IGP instances

[RFC7884]

[RFC7883]

 and

[RFC7883]

).

Advertising the S-BFD Discriminators via BGP-LS makes it possible for attackers to initiate S-BFD
sessions using the advertised information. The vulnerabilities this poses and how to mitigate
them are discussed in

[RFC7880]

.

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC7752]

[RFC7880]

[RFC7883]

[RFC7884]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
,
.
rfc2119>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

Gredler, H., Ed. Medved, J. Previdi, S. Farrel, A.
,
Distribution of Link-State and Traﬃc Engineering (TE) Information Using BGP"
,
RFC 7752 DOI 10.17487/RFC7752
.
rfc7752>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

S. Ray "North-Bound

, March 2016,

, and

,

,

,

,

,
Pignataro, C. Ward, D. Akiya, N. Bhatia, M.
,
Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (S-BFD)" RFC 7880 DOI 10.17487/RFC7880
July 2016,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7880>

,
S. Pallagatti "Seamless

, and
,

,

,

,

Ginsberg, L. Akiya, N.
Forwarding Detection (S-BFD) Discriminators in IS-IS" RFC 7883 DOI 10.17487/
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7883>
RFC7883

M. Chen "Advertising Seamless Bidirectional

, July 2016,

, and

,

,

,

,

,

Pignataro, C. Bhatia, M. Aldrin, S.
Advertise Seamless Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (S-BFD) Target
Discriminators" RFC 7884 DOI 10.17487/RFC7884
.
editor.org/info/rfc7884>

T. Ranganath "OSPF Extensions to

, July 2016,

, and

,

,

,

<https://www.rfc-

,
,
Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
.
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

7.2.  Informative References

[RFC5880]

D. Ward "Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD)" RFC 5880 DOI

,

,

,

, June 2010,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5880>
.

 and

Katz, D.
10.17487/RFC5880

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9247

BGP-LS Extensions for S-BFD

June 2022

Acknowledgements

The authors would like to thank
also like to thank
for his shepherd review and

Gunter Van de Velde

Nan Wu

 for his contributions to this work. The authors would

 and
Alvaro Retana

Thomas Fossati
 for his AD review of this document.

 for their reviews as well as

Jeﬀ Haas

Authors' Addresses

Zhenbin Li
Huawei
Huawei Bld.
No.156 Beiqing Rd.
Beijing
100095
China
Email:

 lizhenbin@huawei.com

Shunwan Zhuang
Huawei
Huawei Bld.
No.156 Beiqing Rd.
Beijing
100095
China
Email:

 zhuangshunwan@huawei.com

editor
)

Ketan Talaulikar (
Arrcus, Inc.
India
Email:

 ketant.ietf@gmail.com

Sam Aldrin
Google, Inc.
Email:

 aldrin.ietf@gmail.com

Jeﬀ Tantsura
Microsoft
Email:

 jeﬀtant.ietf@gmail.com

Greg Mirsky
Ericsson
Email:

 gregimirsky@gmail.com

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

