Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9008
6550, 6553, 8138
Standards Track
April 2021
2070-1721
M.I. Robles
UTN-FRM/Aalto

M. Richardson
SSW

P. Thubert
Cisco

RFC 9008
Using RPI Option Type, Routing Header for Source
Routes, and IPv6-in-IPv6 Encapsulation in the RPL
Data Plane

Abstract

This document looks at diﬀerent data ﬂows through Low-Power and Lossy Networks (LLN)
where RPL (IPv6 Routing Protocol for Low-Power and Lossy Networks) is used to establish
routing. The document enumerates the cases where RPL Packet Information (RPI) Option Type
(RFC 6553), RPL Source Route Header (RFC 6554), and IPv6-in-IPv6 encapsulation are required in
the data plane. This analysis provides the basis upon which to design eﬃcient compression of
these headers. This document updates RFC 6553 by adding a change to the RPI Option Type.
Additionally, this document updates RFC 6550 by deﬁning a ﬂag in the DODAG Information
Object (DIO) Conﬁguration option to indicate this change and updates RFC 8138 as well to
consider the new Option Type when the RPL Option is decompressed.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9008

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Robles, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9008

RPL Data Plane

April 2021

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Overview

2.  Terminology and Requirements Language

3.  RPL Overview

4.  Updates to RFC 6550, RFC 6553, and RFC 8138

4.1.  Updates to RFC 6550

4.1.1.  Advertising External Routes with Non-Storing Mode Signaling

4.1.2.  Conﬁguration Options and Mode of Operation

4.1.3.  Indicating the New RPI in the DODAG Conﬁguration Option Flag

4.2.  Updates to RFC 6553: Indicating the New RPI Option Type

4.3.  Updates to RFC 8138: Indicating the Way to Decompress with the New RPI Option Type

5.  Reference Topology

6.  Use Cases

7.  Storing Mode

7.1.  Storing Mode: Interaction between Leaf and Root

7.1.1.  SM: Example of Flow from RAL to Root

7.1.2.  SM: Example of Flow from Root to RAL

7.1.3.  SM: Example of Flow from Root to RUL

7.1.4.  SM: Example of Flow from RUL to Root

7.2.  SM: Interaction between Leaf and Internet

7.2.1.  SM: Example of Flow from RAL to Internet

7.2.2.  SM: Example of Flow from Internet to RAL

7.2.3.  SM: Example of Flow from RUL to Internet

7.2.4.  SM: Example of Flow from Internet to RUL

Robles, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9008

RPL Data Plane

April 2021

7.3.  SM: Interaction between Leaf and Leaf

7.3.1.  SM: Example of Flow from RAL to RAL

7.3.2.  SM: Example of Flow from RAL to RUL

7.3.3.  SM: Example of Flow from RUL to RAL

7.3.4.  SM: Example of Flow from RUL to RUL

8.  Non-Storing Mode

8.1.  Non-Storing Mode: Interaction between Leaf and Root

8.1.1.  Non-SM: Example of Flow from RAL to Root

8.1.2.  Non-SM: Example of Flow from Root to RAL

8.1.3.  Non-SM: Example of Flow from Root to RUL

8.1.4.  Non-SM: Example of Flow from RUL to Root

8.2.  Non-Storing Mode: Interaction between Leaf and Internet

8.2.1.  Non-SM: Example of Flow from RAL to Internet

8.2.2.  Non-SM: Example of Flow from Internet to RAL

8.2.3.  Non-SM: Example of Flow from RUL to Internet

8.2.4.  Non-SM: Example of Flow from Internet to RUL

8.3.  Non-SM: Interaction between Leaves

8.3.1.  Non-SM: Example of Flow from RAL to RAL

8.3.2.  Non-SM: Example of Flow from RAL to RUL

8.3.3.  Non-SM: Example of Flow from RUL to RAL

8.3.4.  Non-SM: Example of Flow from RUL to RUL

9.  Operational Considerations of Supporting RULs

10. Operational Considerations of Introducing 0x23

11. IANA Considerations

11.1.  Option Type in RPL Option

11.2.  Change to the "DODAG Conﬁguration Option Flags" Subregistry

11.3.  Change MOP Value 7 to Reserved

12. Security Considerations

13. References

13.1.  Normative References

Robles, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9008

RPL Data Plane

April 2021

13.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

 is a routing protocol
 deﬁnes the RPL Option carried within the IPv6 Hop-by-Hop

RPL (IPv6 Routing Protocol for Low-Power and Lossy Networks)
[RFC6553]
for constrained networks.
Options header to carry the RPLInstanceID and quickly identify inconsistencies (loops) in the
routing topology. The RPL Option is commonly referred to as the RPL Packet Information (RPI),
although the RPI is the routing information that is deﬁned in
 and transported in the
RPL Option. RFC 6554
header to deliver datagrams within a RPL routing domain, particularly in Non-Storing mode.

 deﬁnes the "RPL Source Route Header" (RH3), an IPv6 extension

[RFC6554]

[RFC6550]

[RFC6550]

These various items are referred to as RPL artifacts, and they are seen on all of the data plane
traﬃc that occurs in RPL-routed networks; they do not, in general, appear on the RPL control
plane at all, which is mostly hop-by-hop traﬃc (one exception being Destination Advertisement
Object (DAO) messages in Non-Storing mode).

It has become clear from attempts to do multi-vendor interoperability, and from a desire to
compress as many of the above artifacts as possible, that not all implementers agree when
artifacts are necessary, or when they can be safely omitted, or removed.

[RFC2460]

The ROLL (Routing Over Low power and Lossy networks) Working Group analyzed how IPv6
rules
 apply to the Storing and Non-Storing use of RPL. The result was 24 data-plane
use cases. They are exhaustively outlined here in order to be completely unambiguous. During
the processing of this document, new rules were published as
updated to reﬂect the normative changes in that document.

, and this document was

[RFC8200]

This document updates
make routers compliant with

[RFC6553]

, changing the value of the Option Type of the RPL Option to

[RFC8200]

 ignore this option when it is not recognized.

A Routing Header Dispatch for IPv6 over Low-Power Wireless Personal Area Networks
(6LoWPAN) (6LoRH)
and Routing Header type 3 (RH3)

 deﬁnes a mechanism for compressing RPL Option information

, as well as an eﬃcient IPv6-in-IPv6 technique.

[RFC8138]

[RFC6554]

Most of the use cases described herein require the use of IPv6-in-IPv6 packet encapsulation.
When encapsulating and decapsulating packets,
the explicit congestion notiﬁcation (ECN) ﬁeld between inner and outer headers. Additionally,
[TUNNELS]
layers and the challenges in supporting IP tunneling.

 is recommended reading to explain the relationship of IP tunnels to existing protocol

 be applied to map the setting of

[RFC6040] MUST

Unconstrained uses of RPL are not in scope of this document, and applicability statements for
those uses may provide diﬀerent advice, e.g.,

.
[ACP]

Robles, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9008

RPL Data Plane

April 2021

1.1.  Overview

The rest of the document is organized as follows: Section 2 describes the terminology that is used.
Section 3 provides a RPL overview. Section 4 describes the updates to RFC 6553, RFC 6550, and
RFC 8138. Section 5 provides the reference topology used for the use cases. Section 6 describes
the use cases included. Section 7 describes the Storing mode cases and Section 8 the Non-Storing
mode cases. Section 9 describes the operational considerations of supporting RPL-unaware
leaves. Section 10 depicts operational considerations for the proposed change on RPI Option
Type, Section 11 the IANA considerations, and then Section 12 describes the security aspects.

2.  Terminology and Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

The following terminology deﬁned in
and ROLL.

[RFC7102]

 applies to this document: LLN, RPL, RPL domain,

Consumed:

A Routing Header is consumed when the Segments Left ﬁeld is zero, which
indicates that the destination in the IPv6 header is the ﬁnal destination of the packet and that
the hops in the Routing Header have been traversed.

RPL Leaf:

An IPv6 host that is attached to a RPL router and obtains connectivity through a RPL

Destination-Oriented Directed Acyclic Graph (DODAG). As an IPv6 node, a RPL leaf is expected
to ignore a consumed Routing Header, and as an IPv6 host, it is expected to ignore a Hop-by-
Hop Options header. Thus, a RPL leaf can correctly receive a packet with RPL artifacts. On the
other hand, a RPL leaf is not expected to generate RPL artifacts or to support IP-in-IP
encapsulation. For simpliﬁcation, this document uses the standalone term leaf to mean a RPL
leaf.

RPL Packet Information (RPI):

The information deﬁned abstractly in
IP packets. The term is commonly used, including in this document, to refer to the RPL Option
[RFC6553]
[RFC8138]
information.

 that transports that abstract information in an IPv6 Hop-by-Hop Options header.
 provides an alternate (more compressed) formatting for the same abstract

 to be placed in

[RFC6550]

RPL-Aware Node (RAN):

A device that implements RPL. Please note that the device can be found

inside the LLN or outside LLN.

RPL-Aware Leaf (RAL):

A RPL-aware node that is also a RPL leaf.

RPL-Unaware Node:

A device that does not implement RPL, thus the device is RPL unaware.

Please note that the device can be found inside the LLN.

RPL-Unaware Leaf (RUL):

A RPL-unaware node that is also a RPL leaf.

Robles, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9008

RPL Data Plane

April 2021

6LoWPAN Node (6LN):

[RFC6775]

 deﬁnes it as the following: "A 6LoWPAN node is any host or

router participating in a LoWPAN. This term is used when referring to situations in which
either a host or router can play the role described." In this document, a 6LN acts as a leaf.

6LoWPAN Router (6LR):

[RFC6775]

 deﬁnes it as the following: "An intermediate router in the

LoWPAN that is able to send and receive Router Advertisements (RAs) and Router Solicitations
(RSs) as well as forward and route IPv6 packets. 6LoWPAN routers are present only in route-
over topologies."

6LoWPAN Border Router (6LBR):

[RFC6775]

 deﬁnes it as the following: "A border router located
at the junction of separate 6LoWPAN networks or between a 6LoWPAN network and another
IP network. There may be one or more 6LBRs at the 6LoWPAN network boundary. A 6LBR is
the responsible authority for IPv6 preﬁx propagation for the 6LoWPAN network it is serving.
An isolated LoWPAN also contains a 6LBR in the network, which provides the preﬁx(es) for
the isolated network."

Flag Day:

A ﬂag day is caused when a network is reconﬁgured in a way that nodes running the

older conﬁguration cannot communicate with nodes running the new conﬁguration. An
example of a ﬂag day is when the ARPANET changed from IP version 3 to IP version 4 on
January 1, 1983
(0x63) to Option Type (0x23) presents as a disruptive changeover. In order to reduce the
amount of time for such a changeover, Section 4.1.3 provides a mechanism to allow nodes to
be incrementally upgraded.

. In the context of this document, a switch from RPI Option Type

[RFC0801]

Non-Storing Mode (Non-SM):

A RPL mode of operation in which the RPL-aware nodes send

information to the root about their parents. Thus, the root knows the topology. Because the
root knows the topology, the intermediate 6LRs do not maintain routing state, and source
routing is needed.

Storing Mode (SM):

A RPL mode of operation in which RPL-aware nodes (6LRs) maintain

routing state (of the children) so that source routing is not needed.

Note: Due to lack of space in some tables, we refer to IPv6-in-IPv6 as IP6-IP6.

3.  RPL Overview

RPL deﬁnes the RPL control message (control plane), which is an ICMPv6 message
with a Type of 155. DIS (DODAG Information Solicitation), DIO (DODAG Information Object), and
DAO (Destination Advertisement Object) messages are all RPL control messages but with
diﬀerent Code values. A RPL stack is shown in Figure 1.

[RFC4443]

Robles, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9008

RPL Data Plane

April 2021

+--------------+
| Upper Layers |
|              |
+--------------+
|   RPL        |
|              |
+--------------+
|   ICMPv6     |
|              |
+--------------+
|   IPv6       |
|              |
+--------------+
|   6LoWPAN    |
|              |
+--------------+
|   PHY-MAC    |
|              |
+--------------+

Figure 1: RPL Stack

RPL supports two modes of Downward internal traﬃc: in Storing mode (SM), it is fully stateful; in
Non-Storing mode (non-SM), it is fully source routed. A RPL Instance is either fully Storing or
fully Non-Storing, i.e., a RPL Instance with a combination of fully Storing and Non-Storing nodes
is not supported with the current speciﬁcations at the time of writing this document. External
routes are advertised with non-SM messaging even in an SM network, see Section 4.1.1

4.  Updates to RFC 6550, RFC 6553, and RFC 8138

4.1.  Updates to RFC 6550

4.1.1.  Advertising External Routes with Non-Storing Mode Signaling

 introduces the 'E' ﬂag that is set to indicate that the 6LR that generates

Section 6.7.8 of [RFC6550]
the DAO redistributes external targets into the RPL network. An external target is a target that
has been learned through an alternate protocol, for instance, a route to a preﬁx that is outside
the RPL domain but reachable via a 6LR. Being outside of the RPL domain, a node that is reached
via an external target cannot be guaranteed to ignore the RPL artifacts and cannot be expected to
process the compression deﬁned in
 correctly. This means that the RPL artifacts should
be contained in an IP-in-IP encapsulation that is removed by the 6LR, and that any remaining
compression should be expanded by the 6LR before it forwards a packet outside the RPL domain.

[RFC8138]

This speciﬁcation updates
mode DAO messaging even in a Storing mode network is
routes are not advertised within the DODAG, and all packets to an external target reach the root
like normal Non-Storing mode traﬃc. The Non-Storing mode DAO informs the root of the address

 to say that advertising external targets using Non-Storing
RECOMMENDED

. This way, external

[RFC6550]

Robles, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9008

RPL Data Plane

April 2021

of the 6LR that injects the external route, and the root uses IP-in-IP encapsulation to that 6LR,
which terminates the IP-in-IP tunnel and forwards the original packet outside the RPL domain
free of RPL artifacts.

In the other direction, for traﬃc coming from an external target into the LLN, the parent (6LR)
that injects the traﬃc always encapsulates to the root. This whole operation is transparent to
intermediate routers that only see traﬃc between the 6LR and the root, and only the root and the
6LRs that inject external routes in the network need to be upgraded to add this function to the
network.

A RUL is a special case of external target when the target is actually a host, and it is known to
support a consumed Routing Header and to ignore a Hop-by-Hop Options header as prescribed
by
have been registered to the 6LR using

. The target may have been learned through an external routing protocol or may

[RFC8200]

[RFC8505]

.

In order to enable IP-in-IP all the way to a 6LN, it is beneﬁcial that the 6LN supports
decapsulating IP-in-IP, but that is not assumed by
encapsulates a packet
all the way to the RUL if it is aware that the RUL supports IP-in-IP decapsulation and the artifacts
in the outer header chain.

 terminate the tunnel at a parent 6LR. The root may encapsulate

. If the 6LN is a RUL, the root that

[RFC8504]

SHOULD

A node that is reachable over an external route is not expected to support
. Whether a
decapsulation took place or not and even when the 6LR is delivering the packet to a RUL, the 6LR
that injected an external route
MUST
forwarding over that external route.

 compression on the packet before

[RFC8138]

[RFC8138]

 undo the

4.1.2.  Conﬁguration Options and Mode of Operation

Section 6.7.6 of [RFC6550]
ﬂags in the ﬁrst octet of the payload.

 describes the DODAG Conﬁguration option as containing a series of

Anticipating future work to revise RPL relating to how the LLN and DODAG are conﬁgured, this
document renames the IANA "DODAG Conﬁguration Option Flags" subregistry so that it applies
to Mode of Operation (MOP) values zero (0) through six (6) only, leaving the ﬂags unassigned for
MOP value seven (7). The MOP is described in

.
[RFC6550], Section 6.3.1

In addition, this document reserves MOP value 7 for future expansion.

See Sections 11.2 and 11.3.

4.1.3.  Indicating the New RPI in the DODAG Conﬁguration Option Flag

In order to avoid a ﬂag day caused by lack of interoperation between nodes of the new RPI
Option Type (0x23) and old RPI Option Type (0x63), this section deﬁnes a ﬂag in the DODAG
Conﬁguration option, to indicate when the new RPI Option Type can be safely used. This means
that the ﬂag is going to indicate the value of Option Type that the network will be using for the
RPL Option. Thus, when a node joins to a network, it will know which value to use. With this,
RPL-capable nodes know if it is safe to use 0x23 when creating a new RPL Option. A node that
forwards a packet with an RPI

 modify the Option Type of the RPL Option.

MUST NOT

Robles, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9008

RPL Data Plane

April 2021

This is done using a DODAG Conﬁguration option ﬂag that will signal "RPI 0x23 enable" and
propagate through the network.
 deﬁnes a 3-bit Mode of Operation
Section 6.3.1 of [RFC6550]
(MOP) in the DIO Base Object. The ﬂag is deﬁned only for MOP value between 0 to 6.

For a MOP value of 7, a node

MUST

 use the RPI 0x23 option.

[RFC6550]

As stated in
, the DODAG Conﬁguration option is present in DIO messages. The DODAG
Conﬁguration option distributes conﬁguration information. It is generally static, and it does not
change within the DODAG. This information is conﬁgured at the DODAG root and distributed
throughout the DODAG with the DODAG Conﬁguration option. Nodes other than the DODAG root
do not modify this information when propagating the DODAG Conﬁguration option.

Currently, the DODAG Conﬁguration option in
initialized to zero by the sender and
a value zero, which is the default, then new nodes will remain compatible with RFC 6553 --
originating traﬃc with the old RPI Option Type value (0x63). If the ﬂag is received with a value of
 be set to 0x23.
1, then the value for the RPL Option

 states that the unused bits "
 be ignored by the receiver." If the ﬂag is received with

[RFC6550]

MUST

MUST

MUST

 be

Bit number three of the Flags ﬁeld in the DODAG Conﬁguration option is to be used as shown in
Table 1 (which is the same as Table 36 in Section 11 and is shown here for convenience):

Bit number

Description

Reference

3

RPI 0x23 enable

This document

Table 1: DODAG Conﬁguration Option Flag to
Indicate the RPI Flag Day

In the case of reboot, the node (6LN or 6LR) does not remember the RPI Option Type (i.e.,
whether or not the ﬂag is set), so the node will not trigger DIO messages until a DIO message is
received that indicates the RPI value to be used. The node will use the value 0x23 if the network
supports this feature.

4.2.  Updates to RFC 6553: Indicating the New RPI Option Type

This modiﬁcation is required in order to be able to send, for example, IPv6 packets from a RPL-
aware leaf to a RPL-unaware node through the Internet (see Section 7.2.1) without requiring
IPv6-in-IPv6 encapsulation.

 states, as shown in Table 2, that in the Option Type ﬁeld of the RPL Option,

Section 6 of [RFC6553]
the two high-order bits must be set to '01' and the third bit is equal to '1'. The ﬁrst two bits
indicate that the IPv6 node must discard the packet if it doesn't recognize the Option Type, and
the third bit indicates that the Option Data may change in route. The remaining bits serve as the
Option Type.

Robles, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9008

RPL Data Plane

April 2021

Hex Value

Binary Value

Description

Reference

act

chg

rest

0x63

01

1

00011

RPL Option

[RFC6553]

Table 2: Option Type in RPL Option

This document illustrates that it is not always possible to know for sure at the source whether a
packet will travel only within the RPL domain or whether it will leave it.

[RFC6553]

 was published, leaking a Hop-by-Hop Options header in the outer IPv6

At the time
header chain could potentially impact core routers in the Internet. So at that time, it was decided
to encapsulate any packet with a RPL Option using IPv6-in-IPv6 in all cases where it was unclear
whether the packet would remain within the RPL domain. In the exception case where a packet
would still leak, the Option Type would ensure that the ﬁrst router in the Internet that does not
recognize the option would drop the packet and protect the rest of the network.

[RFC8138]

Even with
, where the IPv6-in-IPv6 header is compressed, this approach yields extra
bytes in a packet; this means consuming more energy and more bandwidth, incurring higher
chances of loss, and possibly causing a fragmentation at the 6LoWPAN level. This impacts the
daily operation of constrained devices for a case that generally does not happen and would not
heavily impact the core anyway.

While the intention was and remains that the Hop-by-Hop Options header with a RPL Option
should be conﬁned within the RPL domain, this speciﬁcation modiﬁes this behavior in order to
reduce the dependency on IPv6-in-IPv6 and protect the constrained devices.
[RFC8200]
nodes along a packet's delivery path only examine and process the Hop-by-Hop Options header if
explicitly conﬁgured to do so."

 clariﬁes the behavior of routers in the Internet as follows: "it is now expected that

Section 4 of

When unclear about the travel of a packet, it becomes preferable for a source not to encapsulate,
accepting the fact that the packet may leave the RPL domain on its way to its destination. In that
event, the packet should reach its destination and should not be discarded by the ﬁrst node that
does not recognize the RPL Option. However, with the current value of the Option Type, if a node
in the Internet is conﬁgured to process the Hop-by-Hop Options header, and if such a node
encounters an Option Type with the ﬁrst two bits set to 01 and the node conforms to
will drop the packet. Host systems should do the same, irrespective of the conﬁguration.

[RFC8200]

, it

Thus, this document updates the Option Type of the RPL Option
Type for simplicity (Table 3): the two high order bits
to '1'. The ﬁrst two bits indicate that the IPv6 node
processing the header (
third bit continues to be set to indicate that the Option Data may change en route. The rightmost
ﬁve bits remain at 0x3(00011). This ensures that a packet that leaves the RPL domain of an LLN
(or that leaves the LLN entirely) will not be discarded when it contains the RPL Option.

, naming it RPI Option
 be set to '00', and the third bit is equal

) if it doesn't recognize the Option Type, and the

 skip over this option and continue

[RFC8200], Section 4.2

[RFC6553]

MUST

MUST

Robles, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9008

RPL Data Plane

April 2021

With the new Option Type, if an IPv6 (intermediate) node (RPL unaware) receives a packet with a
RPL Option, it should ignore the Hop-by-Hop RPL Option (skip over this option and continue
processing the header). This is relevant, as it was mentioned previously, in the case that there is a
ﬂow from RAL to Internet (see Section 7.2.1).

This is a signiﬁcant update to

[RFC6553]
.

Hex Value

Binary Value

Description

Reference

act

chg

rest

0x23

00

1

00011

RPL Option

This document

Table 3: Revised Option Type in RPL Option

Without the signaling described below, this change would otherwise create a lack of
interoperation (ﬂag day) for existing networks that are currently using 0x63 as the RPI Option
Type value. A move to 0x23 will not be understood by those networks. It is suggested that RPL
implementations accept both 0x63 and 0x23 when processing the header.

When forwarding packets, implementations
received. This is required because the RPI Option Type does not change en route (
Section 4.2
know which parts of the network have been upgraded.

). It allows the network to be incrementally upgraded and allows the DODAG root to

 use the same value of RPI Type as was

[RFC8200],

SHOULD

When originating new packets, implementations should have an option to determine which
value to originate with. This option is controlled by the DODAG Conﬁguration option (Section
4.1.3).

 tolerant of the RPL artifacts. There is no longer a need to remove the

The change of RPI Option Type from 0x63 to 0x23 makes all nodes that are compliant with
Section 4.2 of [RFC8200]
artifacts when sending traﬃc to the Internet. This change clariﬁes when to use IPv6-in-IPv6
headers and how to address them: the Hop-by-Hop Options header containing the RPI
MUST
always be added when 6LRs originate packets (without IPv6-in-IPv6 headers), and IPv6-in-IPv6
headers
 always be added when a 6LR ﬁnds that it needs to insert a Hop-by-Hop Options
header containing the RPL Option. The IPv6-in-IPv6 header is to be addressed to the RPL root
when on the way up, and to the end host when on the way down.

MUST

In the Non-Storing case, dealing with RPL-unaware leaf nodes is much easier as the 6LBR
(DODAG root) has complete knowledge about the connectivity of all DODAG nodes, and all traﬃc
ﬂows through the root node.

The 6LBR can recognize RPL-unaware leaf nodes because it will receive a DAO about that node
from the 6LR immediately above that RPL-unaware node.

The Non-Storing mode case does not require the Type change from 0x63 to 0x23, as the root can
always create the right packet. The Type change does not adversely aﬀect the Non-Storing case
(see Section 4.1.3).

Robles, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9008

RPL Data Plane

April 2021

4.3.  Updates to RFC 8138: Indicating the Way to Decompress with the New
RPI Option Type

This modiﬁcation is required in order to be able to decompress the RPL Option with the new
Option Type of 0x23.

The RPI-6LoRH header provides a compressed form for the RPL RPI; see
node that is decompressing this header
currently active, that is, a choice between 0x23 (new) and 0x63 (old). The node will know which
to use based upon the presence of the ﬂag in the DODAG Conﬁguration option deﬁned in Section
4.1.3. For example, if the network is in 0x23 mode (by DIO option), then it should be
decompressed to 0x23.

 decompress using the RPI Option Type that is

[RFC8138], Section 6

MUST

. A

Section 7 of [RFC8138]

 documents how to compress the IPv6-in-IPv6 header.

There are potential signiﬁcant advantages to having a single code path that always processes
IPv6-in-IPv6 headers with no conditional branches.

In Storing mode, the scenarios where the ﬂow goes from RAL to RUL and RUL to RUL include
compression of the IPv6-in-IPv6 and RPI headers. The IPv6-in-IPv6 header
case, and it
case in Storing mode where the packet is received from the Internet, then the root encapsulates
the packet to insert the RPI. In that example, the leaf is not known to support RFC 8138, and the
packet is encapsulated to the 6LR that is the parent and last hop to the ﬁnal destination.

 be used in this
. Figure 2 illustrates the

 be compressed as speciﬁed in

[RFC8138], Section 7

SHOULD

MUST

+-+ ... -+-+ ... +-+- ... -+-+- +-+-+-+ ... +-+-+ ... -+++ ... +-...
|11110001|SRH-6LoRH| RPI-  |IP-in-IP| NH=1      |11110CPP| UDP | UDP
|Page 1  |Type1 S=0| 6LoRH |6LoRH   |LOWPAN_IPHC| UDP    | hdr |Payld
+-+ ... -+-+ ... +-+- ... -+-+-.+-+-+-+-+ ... +-+-+ ... -+ ... +-...
         <-4bytes->                      <-        RFC 6282      ->
                                               No RPL artifact

Figure 2: RPI Inserted by the Root in Storing Mode

In Figure 2, the source of the IPv6-in-IPv6 encapsulation is the root, so it is elided in the IP-in-IP
6LoRH. The destination is the parent 6LR of the destination of the inner packet so it cannot be
elided. It is placed as the single entry in a Source Route Header 6LoRH (SRH-6LoRH) as the ﬁrst
6LoRH. There is a single entry so the SRH-6LoRH Size is zero. In that example, the Type is 1 so the
6LR address is compressed to two bytes. This results in the total length of the SRH-6LoRH being
four bytes. The RPI-6LoRH and then the IP-in-IP 6LoRH follow. When the IP-in-IP 6LoRH is
removed, all the router headers that precede it are also removed. The Paging Dispatch
[RFC8025]
may also be removed if there was no previous Page change to a Page other than 0 or 1, since the
LOWPAN_IPHC is encoded in the same fashion in the default Page 0 and in Page 1. The resulting
packet to the destination is the inner packet compressed with

.
[RFC6282]

Robles, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9008

RPL Data Plane

April 2021

5.  Reference Topology

A RPL network in general is composed of a 6LBR, a Backbone Router (6BBR), a 6LR, and a 6LN as
a leaf logically organized in a DODAG structure.

Figure 3 shows the reference RPL topology for this document. The nodes are labeled with letters
so that they may be referenced in subsequent sections. In the ﬁgure, 6LR represents a full router
node. The 6LN is a RPL-aware router or host (as a leaf). Additionally, for simpliﬁcation purposes,
it is supposed that the 6LBR has direct access to Internet and is the root of the DODAG, thus the
6BBR is not present in the ﬁgure.

The 6LN leaves marked as RAL (F, H, and I) are RPL nodes with no children hosts.

The leaves marked as RUL (G and J) are devices that do not speak RPL at all (RPL unaware), but
use Router Advertisements, 6LoWPAN Duplicate Address Request and Duplicate Address
Conﬁrmation (DAR/DAC), and 6LoWPAN Neighbor Discovery (ND) only to participate in the
network

. In the document, these leaves (G and J) are also referred to as a RUL.

[RFC8505]

The 6LBR (A) in the ﬁgure is the root of the Global DODAG.

Robles, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9008

RPL Data Plane

April 2021

                  +------------+
                  |  INTERNET  ----------+
                  |            |         |
                  +------------+         |
                                         |
                                         |
                                         |
                                       A |
                                   +-------+
                                   |6LBR   |
                       +-----------|(root) |-------+
                       |           +-------+       |
                       |                           |
                       |                           |
                       |                           |
                       |                           |
                       | B                         |C
                   +---|---+                   +---|---+
                   |  6LR  |                   |  6LR  |
         +---------|       |--+             +---       ---+
         |         +-------+  |             |  +-------+  |
         |                    |             |             |
         |                    |             |             |
         |                    |             |             |
         |                    |             |             |
         | D                  |  E          |             |
       +-|-----+          +---|---+         |             |
       |  6LR  |          |  6LR  |         |             |
       |       |    +------       |         |             |
       +---|---+    |     +---|---+         |             |
           |        |         |             |             |
           |        |         +--+          |             |
           |        |            |          |             |
           |        |            |          |             |
           |        |            |        I |          J  |
        F  |        | G          | H        |             |
     +-----+-+    +-|-----+  +---|--+   +---|---+     +---|---+
     |  RAL  |    | RUL   |  | RAL  |   |  RAL  |     | RUL   |
     |  6LN  |    |  6LN  |  | 6LN  |   |  6LN  |     |  6LN  |
     +-------+    +-------+  +------+   +-------+     +-------+

Figure 3: A Reference RPL Topology

6.  Use Cases

In the data plane, a combination of RFC 6553, RFC 6554, and IPv6-in-IPv6 encapsulation are going
to be analyzed for a number of representative traﬃc ﬂows.

The use cases describe the communication in the following cases:

•

Between RPL-aware nodes with the root (6LBR)

•

Between RPL-aware nodes with the Internet

•

Between RUL nodes within the LLN (e.g., see Section 7.1.4)

Robles, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9008

RPL Data Plane

April 2021

•

Inside of the LLN when the ﬁnal destination address resides outside of the LLN (e.g., see
Section 7.2.3)

The use cases are as follows:

Interaction between leaf and root:

RAL to root

root to RAL

RUL to root

root to RUL

Interaction between leaf and Internet:

RAL to Internet

Internet to RAL

RUL to Internet

Internet to RUL

Interaction between leaves:

RAL to RAL

RAL to RUL

RUL to RAL

RUL to RUL

This document is consistent with the rule that a header cannot be inserted or removed on the ﬂy
inside an IPv6 packet that is being routed. This is a fundamental precept of the IPv6 architecture
as outlined in

[RFC8200]
.

As the Rank information in the RPI artifact is changed at each hop, it will typically be zero when
it arrives at the DODAG root. The DODAG root
 force it to zero when passing the packet out
MUST
to the Internet. The Internet will therefore not see any SenderRank information.

Despite being legal to leave the RPI artifact in place, an intermediate router that needs to add an
extension header (e.g., RH3 or RPL Option)
outer IP header. The new header is placed after this new outer IP header.

 still encapsulate the packet in an (additional)

MUST

A corollary is that an intermediate router can remove an RH3 or RPL Option only if it is placed in
an encapsulating IPv6 header that is addressed to this intermediate router. When doing the
above, the whole encapsulating header must be removed. (A replacement may be added.)

Robles, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9008

RPL Data Plane

April 2021

Both the RPL Option and the RH3 headers may be modiﬁed in very speciﬁc ways by routers on
the path of the packet without the need to add and remove an encapsulating header. Both
headers were designed with this modiﬁcation in mind, and both the RPL RH3 and the RPL Option
are marked mutable but recoverable: so an IPsec Authentication Header (AH) can be applied
across these headers, but it cannot secure the values that mutate.

The RPI

MUST

 be present in every single RPL data packet.

[RFC8138]

, there was signiﬁcant interest in creating an exception to this rule and

Prior to
removing the RPI for Downward ﬂows in Non-Storing mode. This exception covered a very small
number of cases, and caused signiﬁcant interoperability challenges while adding signiﬁcant
interest in the code and tests. The ability to compress the RPI down to three bytes or less removes
much of the pressure to optimize this any further.

Throughout the following subsections, the examples are described in more detail in the ﬁrst
subsections, and more concisely in the later ones.

The use cases are delineated based on the following IPV6 and RPL mandates:

The RPI has to be in every packet that traverses the LLN.

◦

◦

◦

◦

◦

◦

Because of the above requirement, packets from the Internet have to be encapsulated.

A header cannot be inserted or removed on the ﬂy inside an IPv6 packet that is being
routed.

Extension headers may not be added or removed except by the sender or the receiver.

RPI and RH3 headers may be modiﬁed by routers on the path of the packet without the
need to add and remove an encapsulating header.

An RH3 or RPL Option can only be removed by an intermediate router if it is placed in an
encapsulating IPv6 header, which is addressed to the intermediate router.

The Non-Storing mode requires downstream encapsulation by the root for RH3.

The use cases are delineated based on the following assumptions:

This document assumes that the LLN is using the no-drop RPI Option Type (0x23).

◦

◦

◦

◦

◦

◦

◦

Each IPv6 node (including Internet routers) obeys
Type can be safely inserted.

[RFC8200]

, so that the 0x23 RPI Option

All 6LRs obey

[RFC8200]

.

The RPI is ignored at the IPv6 destination (dst) node (RUL).

In the use cases, we assume that the RAL supports IP-in-IP encapsulation.

In the use cases, we don't assume that the RUL supports IP-in-IP encapsulation.

For traﬃc leaving a RUL, if the RUL adds an opaque RPI, then the 6LR as a RPL Border
Router

 rewrite the RPI to indicate the selected Instance and set the ﬂags.

SHOULD

The description for RALs applies to RAN in general.

Robles, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9008

RPL Data Plane

April 2021

◦

◦

◦

Unconstrained uses of RPL are not in scope of this document.

Compression is based on

[RFC8138]

.

The ﬂow label

[RFC6437]

 is not needed in RPL.

7.  Storing Mode

In Storing mode (SM) (fully stateful), the sender can determine if the destination is inside the
LLN by looking if the destination address is matched by the DIO's Preﬁx Information Option (PIO)
option.

Table 4 itemizes which headers are needed in each of the following scenarios. It indicates
whether an IPv6-in-IPv6 header must be added and to which destination it must be addressed:

1.

the ﬁnal destination (the RAL node that is the target (tgt)),

2.

the "root", or

3.

the 6LR parent of a RUL.

In cases where no IPv6-in-IPv6 header is needed, the column states "No", and the destination is
N/A (Not Applicable). If the IPv6-in-IPv6 header is needed, the column shows "must".

In all cases, the RPI is needed, since it identiﬁes inconsistencies (loops) in the routing topology. In
general, the RH3 is not needed because it is not used in Storing mode. However, there is one
scenario (from the root to the RUL in SM) where the RH3 can be used to point at the RUL (Table
8).

The leaf can be a router 6LR or a host, both indicated as 6LN. The root refers to the 6LBR (see
Figure 3).

Interaction between

Use Case

IPv6-in-IPv6

IPv6-in-IPv6 dst

Leaf - Root

RAL to root

root to RAL

No

No

root to RUL

must

RUL to root

must

Leaf - Internet

RAL to Int

Int to RAL

RUL to Int

Int to RUL

may

must

must

must

Leaf - Leaf

RAL to RAL

No

N/A

N/A

6LR

root

root

RAL (tgt)

root

6LR

N/A

Robles, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9008

RPL Data Plane

April 2021

Interaction between

Use Case

IPv6-in-IPv6

IPv6-in-IPv6 dst

RAL to RUL

No(up)

must(down)

RUL to RAL

must(up)

must(down)

RUL to RUL

must(up)

must(down)

N/A

6LR

root

RAL

root

6LR

Table 4: IPv6-in-IPv6 Encapsulation in Storing Mode

7.1.  Storing Mode: Interaction between Leaf and Root

This section describes the communication ﬂow in Storing mode (SM) between the following:

RAL to root

root to RAL

RUL to root

root to RUL

7.1.1.  SM: Example of Flow from RAL to Root

In Storing mode, RPI

[RFC6553]

 is used to send the RPLInstanceID and Rank information.

In this case, the ﬂow comprises:

RAL (6LN) --> 6LR_i --> root (6LBR)

For example, a communication ﬂow could be: Node F (6LN) --> Node D (6LR_i) --> Node B (6LR_i)
--> Node A root (6LBR)

The RAL (Node F) inserts the RPI, and sends the packet to the 6LR (Node D), which decrements
the Rank in the RPI and sends the packet up. When the packet arrives at the 6LBR (Node A), the
RPI is removed and the packet is processed.

No IPv6-in-IPv6 header is required.

The RPI can be removed by the 6LBR because the packet is addressed to the 6LBR. The RAL must
know that it is communicating with the 6LBR to make use of this scenario. The RAL can know the
address of the 6LBR because it knows the address of the root via the DODAGID in the DIO
messages.

Table 5 summarizes which headers are needed for this use case.

Robles, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9008

RPL Data Plane

April 2021

Header

RAL src

6LR_i

6LBR dst

Added headers

RPI

Modiﬁed headers

Removed headers

Untouched headers

--

--

--

--

RPI

--

--

--

--

RPI

--

Table 5: SM: Summary of the Use of Headers from RAL to
Root

7.1.2.  SM: Example of Flow from Root to RAL

In this case, the ﬂow comprises:

root (6LBR) --> 6LR_i --> RAL (6LN)

For example, a communication ﬂow could be: Node A root (6LBR) --> Node B (6LR_i) --> Node D
(6LR_i) --> Node F (6LN)

In this case, the 6LBR inserts RPI and sends the packet down. The 6LR increments the Rank in the
RPI (it examines the RPLInstanceID to identify the right forwarding table). The packet is
processed in the RAL, and the RPI is removed.

No IPv6-in-IPv6 header is required.

Table 6 summarizes which headers are needed for this use case.

Header

6LBR src

6LR_i

RAL dst

Added headers

RPI

Modiﬁed headers

Removed headers

Untouched headers

--

--

--

--

RPI

--

--

--

--

RPI

--

Table 6: SM: Summary of the Use of Headers from Root to
RAL

7.1.3.  SM: Example of Flow from Root to RUL

In this case, the ﬂow comprises:

root (6LBR) --> 6LR_i --> RUL (IPv6 dst node)

For example, a communication ﬂow could be: Node A (6LBR) --> Node B (6LR_i) --> Node E
(6LR_n) --> Node G (RUL)

Robles, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9008

RPL Data Plane

April 2021

6LR_i (Node B) represents the intermediate routers from the source (6LBR) to the destination
(RUL), and 1 <= i <= n, where n is the total number of routers (6LR) that the packet goes through,
from the 6LBR (Node A) to the RUL (Node G).

The 6LBR will encapsulate the packet in an IPv6-in-IPv6 header and prepend an RPI. The IPv6-in-
IPv6 header is addressed to the 6LR parent of the RUL (6LR_n). The 6LR parent of the RUL
removes the header and sends the packet to the RUL.

Table 7 summarizes which headers are needed for this use case.

Header

6LBR src

6LR_i

6LR_n

RUL dst

Added headers

IP6-IP6 (RPI)

--

Modiﬁed headers

Removed headers

Untouched headers

--

--

--

--

--

RPI

--

IP6-IP6 (RPI)

IP6-IP6

--

--

--

--

--

Table 7: SM: Summary of the Use of Headers from Root to RUL

IP-in-IP encapsulation may be avoided for root-to-RUL communication. In SM, it can be replaced
by a loose RH3 header that indicates the RUL. In which case, the packet is routed to the 6LR as a
normal SM operation, then the 6LR forwards to the RUL based on the RH3, and the RUL ignores
both the consumed RH3 and the RPI, as in Non-Storing mode.

Table 8 summarizes which headers are needed for this scenario.

Header

6LBR
src

6LR_i
i=
(1,..,n-1)

Added headers

RPI, RH3

Modiﬁed headers

Removed headers

Untouched
headers

--

--

--

--

RPI

--

RH3

6LR_n

RUL dst

--

RPI, RH3
(consumed)

--

--

--

--

--

RPI, RH3 (both
ignored)

Table 8: SM: Summary of the Use of Headers from Root to RUL without Encapsulation

7.1.4.  SM: Example of Flow from RUL to Root

In this case, the ﬂow comprises:

RUL (IPv6 src node) --> 6LR_1 --> 6LR_i --> root (6LBR)

Robles, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9008

RPL Data Plane

April 2021

For example, a communication ﬂow could be: Node G (RUL) --> Node E (6LR_1) --> Node B (6LR_i)
--> Node A root (6LBR)

6LR_i represents the intermediate routers from the source (RUL) to the destination (6LBR), and 1
<= i <= n, where n is the total number of routers (6LR) that the packet goes through, from the RUL
to the 6LBR.

When the packet arrives from the RUL (Node G) to 6LR_1 (Node E), the 6LR_1 will encapsulate the
packet in an IPv6-in-IPv6 header with an RPI. The IPv6-in-IPv6 header is addressed to the root
(Node A). The root removes the header and processes the packet.

Table 9 summarizes which headers are needed for this use case where the IPv6-in-IPv6 header is
addressed to the root (Node A).

Header

RUL src

6LR_1

6LR_i

6LBR dst

Added headers

Modiﬁed headers

Removed headers

Untouched headers

--

--

--

--

--

--

--

IP6-IP6 (RPI)

--

--

--

RPI

--

IP6-IP6 (RPI)

IP6-IP6

--

Table 9: SM: Summary of the Use of Headers from RUL to Root

7.2.  SM: Interaction between Leaf and Internet

This section describes the communication ﬂow in Storing mode (SM) between the following:

RAL to Internet

Internet to RAL

RUL to Internet

Internet to RUL

7.2.1.  SM: Example of Flow from RAL to Internet

In this case, the ﬂow comprises:

RAL (6LN) --> 6LR_i --> root (6LBR) --> Internet

For example, the communication ﬂow could be: Node F (RAL) --> Node D (6LR_i) --> Node B
(6LR_i) --> Node A root (6LBR) --> Internet

6LR_i represents the intermediate routers from the source (RAL) to the root (6LBR), and 1 <= i <=
n, where n is the total number of routers (6LR) that the packet goes through, from the RAL to the
6LBR.

Robles, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9008

RPL Data Plane

April 2021

RPL information from RFC 6553 may go out to Internet as it will be ignored by nodes that have
not been conﬁgured to be RPL aware. No IPv6-in-IPv6 header is required.

On the other hand, the RAL may insert the RPI encapsulated in an IPv6-in-IPv6 header to the
root. Thus, the root removes the RPI and sends the packet to the Internet.

Note: In this use case, a leaf node is used, but this use case can also be applicable to
any RPL-aware node type (e.g., 6LR).

Table 10 summarizes which headers are needed for this use case when there is no encapsulation.
Note that the RPI is modiﬁed by 6LBR to set the SenderRank to zero in the case that it is not
already zero. Table 11 summarizes which headers are needed when encapsulation to the root
takes place.

Header

RAL src

6LR_i

6LBR

Internet dst

Added headers

RPI

--

--

Modiﬁed headers

Removed headers

Untouched headers

--

--

--

RPI

RPI

--

--

--

--

--

--

--

RPI (Ignored)

Table 10: SM: Summary of the Use of Headers from RAL to Internet
with No Encapsulation

Header

RAL src

6LR_i

6LBR

Internet dst

Added headers

IP6-IP6 (RPI)

--

Modiﬁed headers

Removed headers

Untouched headers

--

--

--

--

--

RPI

--

IP6-IP6 (RPI)

IP6-IP6

--

--

--

--

--

Table 11: SM: Summary of the Use of Headers from RAL to Internet with
Encapsulation to the Root (6LBR)

7.2.2.  SM: Example of Flow from Internet to RAL

In this case, the ﬂow comprises:

Internet --> root (6LBR) --> 6LR_i --> RAL (6LN)

For example, a communication ﬂow could be: Internet --> Node A root (6LBR) --> Node B (6LR_1)
--> Node D (6LR_n) --> Node F (RAL)

Robles, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9008

RPL Data Plane

April 2021

When the packet arrives from Internet to 6LBR, the RPI is added in a outer IPv6-in-IPv6 header
(with the IPv6-in-IPv6 destination address set to the RAL) and sent to the 6LR, which modiﬁes the
Rank in the RPI. When the packet arrives at the RAL, the packet is decapsulated, which removes
the RPI before the packet is processed.

Table 12 summarizes which headers are needed for this use case.

Header

Internet src

6LBR

6LR_i

RAL dst

Added headers

Modiﬁed headers

Removed headers

Untouched headers

--

--

--

--

IP6-IP6 (RPI)

--

--

--

--

RPI

--

--

--

--

IP6-IP6 (RPI)

--

Table 12: SM: Summary of the Use of Headers from Internet to RAL

7.2.3.  SM: Example of Flow from RUL to Internet

In this case, the ﬂow comprises:

RUL (IPv6 src node) --> 6LR_1 --> 6LR_i --> root (6LBR) --> Internet

For example, a communication ﬂow could be: Node G (RUL) --> Node E (6LR_1) --> Node B (6lR_i)
--> Node A root (6LBR) --> Internet

The node 6LR_1 (i=1) will add an IPv6-in-IPv6 (RPI) header addressed to the root such that the
root can remove the RPI before passing upwards. In the intermediate 6LR, the Rank in the RPI is
modiﬁed.

The originating node will ideally leave the IPv6 ﬂow label as zero so that the packet can be better
compressed through the LLN. The 6LBR will set the ﬂow label of the packet to a non-zero value
when sending to the Internet. For details, check

[RFC6437]

.

Table 13 summarizes which headers are needed for this use case.

Header

IPv6 src
(RUL)

Added headers

Modiﬁed
headers

Removed
headers

--

--

--

6LR_1

IP6-IP6
(RPI)

--

--

6LR_i i=
(2,..,n)

6LBR

Internet
dst

--

RPI

--

--

--

IP6-IP6
(RPI)

--

--

--

Robles, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9008

RPL Data Plane

April 2021

Header

Untouched
headers

IPv6 src
(RUL)

6LR_1

6LR_i i=
(2,..,n)

6LBR

Internet
dst

--

--

--

--

--

Table 13: SM: Summary of the Use of Headers from RUL to Internet

7.2.4.  SM: Example of Flow from Internet to RUL

In this case, the ﬂow comprises:

Internet --> root (6LBR) --> 6LR_i --> RUL (IPv6 dst node)

For example, a communication ﬂow could be: Internet --> Node A root (6LBR) --> Node B (6LR_i) --
> Node E (6LR_n) --> Node G (RUL)

The 6LBR will have to add an RPI within an IPv6-in-IPv6 header. The IPv6-in-IPv6 encapsulating
header is addressed to the 6LR parent of the RUL.

Further details about this are mentioned in
acting as a plain host and being unaware of RPL.

[RFC9010]

, which speciﬁes RPL routing for a 6LN

The 6LBR may set the ﬂow label on the inner IPv6-in-IPv6 header to zero in order to aid in
compression

[RFC8138] [RFC6437]

.

Table 14 summarizes which headers are needed for this use case.

Header

Internet
src

Added headers

Modiﬁed headers

Removed headers

Untouched
headers

--

--

--

--

6LBR

IP6-IP6
(RPI)

--

--

--

6LR_i i=
(1,..,n-1)

6LR_n

RUL
dst

--

RPI

--

--

--

--

IP6-IP6
(RPI)

--

--

--

--

--

Table 14: SM: Summary of the Use of Headers from Internet to RUL

7.3.  SM: Interaction between Leaf and Leaf

This section describes the communication ﬂow in Storing mode (SM) between the following:

RAL to RAL

RAL to RUL

Robles, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9008

RPL Data Plane

April 2021

RUL to RAL

RUL to RUL

7.3.1.  SM: Example of Flow from RAL to RAL

[RFC6550]

, RPL allows a simple, one-hop optimization for both Storing and Non-Storing

In
networks. A node may send a packet destined to a one-hop neighbor directly to that node. See
Section 9 of [RFC6550]

.

When the nodes are not directly connected, then the ﬂow comprises the following in the Storing
mode:

RAL src (6LN) --> 6LR_ia --> common parent (6LR_x) --> 6LR_id --> RAL dst (6LN)

For example, a communication ﬂow could be: Node F (RAL src) --> Node D (6LR_ia) --> Node B
(6LR_x) --> Node E (6LR_id) --> Node H (RAL dst)

6LR_ia (Node D) represents the intermediate routers from the source to the common parent
6LR_x (Node B), and 1 <= ia <= n, where n is the total number of routers (6LR) that the packet
goes through, from the RAL (Node F) to the common parent 6LR_x (Node B).

6LR_id (Node E) represents the intermediate routers from the common parent 6LR_x (Node B) to
the destination RAL (Node H), and 1 <= id <= m, where m is the total number of routers (6LR) that
the packet goes through, from the common parent (6LR_x) to the destination RAL (Node H).

It is assumed that the two nodes are in the same RPL domain (that they share the same DODAG
root). At the common parent (Node B), the direction ﬂag ('O' ﬂag) of the RPI is changed (from
decreasing ranks to increasing ranks).

While the 6LR nodes will update the RPI, no node needs to add or remove the RPI, so no IPv6-in-
IPv6 headers are necessary.

Table 15 summarizes which headers are needed for this use case.

Header

RAL src

6LR_ia

6LR_x (common parent)

6LR_id

RAL dst

Added headers

RPI

Modiﬁed headers

Removed headers

Untouched headers

--

--

--

--

RPI

--

--

--

RPI

--

--

--

RPI

--

--

--

--

RPI

--

Table 15: SM: Summary of the Use of Headers from RAL to RAL

7.3.2.  SM: Example of Flow from RAL to RUL

In this case, the ﬂow comprises:

Robles, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9008

RPL Data Plane

April 2021

RAL src (6LN) --> 6LR_ia --> common parent (6LBR, the root) --> 6LR_id --> RUL (IPv6 dst node)

For example, a communication ﬂow could be: Node F (RAL) --> Node D --> Node B --> Node A -->
Node B --> Node E --> Node G (RUL)

6LR_ia represents the intermediate routers from the source (RAL) to the common parent (the
root), and 1 <= ia <= n, where n is the total number of routers (6LR) that the packet goes through,
from the RAL to the root.

6LR_id (Node E) represents the intermediate routers from the root (Node B) to the destination
RUL (Node G). In this case, 1 <= id <= m, where m is the total number of routers (6LR) that the
packet goes through, from the root down to the destination RUL.

In this case, the packet from the RAL goes to the 6LBR because the route to the RUL is not injected
into the RPL SM. Thus, the RAL inserts an RPI (RPI1) addressed to the root (6LBR). The root does
not remove the RPI1 (the root cannot remove an RPI if there is no encapsulation). The root
inserts an IPv6-in-IPv6 encapsulation with an RPI2 and sends it to the 6LR parent of the RUL,
which removes the encapsulation and RPI2 before passing the packet to the RUL.

Table 16 summarizes which headers are needed for this use case.

Header

RAL
src

6LR_ia

6LBR

6LR_id

6LR_m

RUL dst

Added headers

RPI1

--

Modiﬁed
headers

Removed
headers

Untouched
headers

--

--

--

RPI1

--

--

IP6-IP6
(RPI2)

--

--

--

RPI2

--

--

--

IP6-IP6
(RPI2)

--

--

--

RPI1

RPI1

RPI1

RPI1
(ignored)

Table 16: SM: Summary of the Use of Headers from RAL to RUL

7.3.3.  SM: Example of Flow from RUL to RAL

In this case, the ﬂow comprises:

RUL (IPv6 src node) --> 6LR_ia --> 6LBR --> 6LR_id --> RAL dst (6LN)

For example, a communication ﬂow could be: Node G (RUL) --> Node E --> Node B --> Node A -->
Node B --> Node D --> Node F (RAL)

6LR_ia (Node E) represents the intermediate routers from the source (RUL) (Node G) to the root
(Node A). In this case, 1 <= ia <= n, where n is the total number of routers (6LR) that the packet
goes through, from the source to the root.

Robles, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9008

RPL Data Plane

April 2021

6LR_id represents the intermediate routers from the root (Node A) to the destination RAL (Node
F). In this case, 1 <= id <= m, where m is the total number of routers (6LR) that the packet goes
through, from the root to the destination RAL.

The 6LR_1 (Node E) receives the packet from the RUL (Node G) and inserts the RPI (RPI1)
encapsulated in an IPv6-in-IPv6 header to the root. The root removes the outer header including
the RPI (RPI1) and inserts a new RPI (RPI2) addressed to the destination RAL (Node F).

Table 17 summarizes which headers are needed for this use case.

Header

RUL
src

6LR_1

6LR_ia

6LBR

6LR_id

RAL dst

Added headers

Modiﬁed
headers

Removed
headers

Untouched
headers

--

--

--

--

--

--

--

IP6-IP6
(RPI1)

--

IP6-IP6
(RPI2)

--

RPI1

--

RPI2

--

--

--

--

IP6-IP6
(RPI1)

--

--

--

IP6-IP6
(RPI2)

--

Table 17: SM: Summary of the Use of Headers from RUL to RAL

7.3.4.  SM: Example of Flow from RUL to RUL

In this case, the ﬂow comprises:

RUL (IPv6 src node) --> 6LR_1 --> 6LR_ia --> 6LBR --> 6LR_id --> RUL (IPv6 dst node)

For example, a communication ﬂow could be: Node G (RUL src) --> Node E --> Node B --> Node A
(root) --> Node C --> Node J (RUL dst)

Internal nodes 6LR_ia (e.g., Node E or Node B) is the intermediate router from the RUL source
(Node G) to the root (6LBR) (Node A). In this case, 1 <= ia <= n, where n is the total number of
routers (6LR) that the packet goes through, from the RUL to the root. 6LR_1 applies when ia=1.

6LR_id (Node C) represents the intermediate routers from the root (Node A) to the destination
RUL (Node J). In this case, 1 <= id <= m, where m is the total number of routers (6LR) that the
packet goes through, from the root to the destination RUL.

The 6LR_1 (Node E) receives the packet from the RUL (Node G) and adds the RPI (RPI1) in an
IPv6-in-IPv6 encapsulation directed to the root. The root removes the outer header including the
RPI (RPI1) and inserts a new RPI (RPI2) addressed to the 6LR parent of the RUL.

Table 18 summarizes which headers are needed for this use case.

Robles, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9008

RPL Data Plane

April 2021

Header

RUL
src

6LR_1

6LR_ia

6LBR

6LR_id

6LR_n

Added headers

Modiﬁed
headers

Removed
headers

Untouched
headers

--

--

--

--

--

--

--

IP6-IP6
(RPI1)

--

IP6-IP6
(RPI1)

--

RPI1

--

RPI2

--

--

--

--

IP6-IP6
(RPI1)

--

--

--

IP6-IP6
(RPI2)

--

RUL
dst

--

--

--

--

Table 18: SM: Summary of the Use of Headers from RUL to RUL

8.  Non-Storing Mode

In Non-Storing mode (Non-SM) (fully source routed), the 6LBR (DODAG root) has complete
knowledge about the connectivity of all DODAG nodes and all traﬃc ﬂows through the root node.
Thus, there is no need for all nodes to know about the existence of RPL-unaware nodes. Only the
6LBR needs to act if compensation is necessary for RPL-unaware receivers.

Table 19 summarizes which headers are needed in the following scenarios and indicates when
the RPI, RH3, and IPv6-in-IPv6 header are to be inserted. The last column depicts the target
destination of the IPv6-in-IPv6 header: 6LN (indicated by "RAL"), 6LR (parent of a RUL), or the
root. In cases where no IPv6-in-IPv6 header is needed, the column indicates "No". There is no
expectation on RPL that RPI can be omitted because it is needed for routing, quality of service,
and compression. This speciﬁcation expects that an RPI is always present. The term "may(up)"
means that the IPv6-in-IPv6 header may be necessary in the Upward direction. The term "must
(up)" means that the IPv6-in-IPv6 header must be present in the Upward direction. The term
"must(down)" means that the IPv6-in-IPv6 header must be present in the Downward direction.

The leaf can be a router 6LR or a host, both indicated as 6LN (Figure 3). In Table 19, the (1)
indicates a 6TiSCH case
available for priority/channel selection at each hop.

, where the RPI may still be needed for the RPLInstanceID to be

[RFC8180]

Interaction between

Use Case

RPI

RH3

IPv6-in-IPv6

IP-in-IP dst

Leaf - Root

RAL to root

root to RAL

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

root to RUL

Yes (1)

Yes

No

No

No

RUL to root

Yes

No

must

No

No

6LR

root

Robles, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 9008

RPL Data Plane

April 2021

Interaction between

Use Case

RPI

RH3

IPv6-in-IPv6

IP-in-IP dst

Leaf - Internet

RAL to Int

Int to RAL

RUL to Int

Int to RUL

Leaf - Leaf

RAL to RAL

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

may(up)

must

must

must

may(up)

must(down)

RAL to RUL

Yes

Yes

may(up)

RUL to RAL

Yes

Yes

must(up)

must(down)

must(down)

RUL to RUL

Yes

Yes

must(up)

must(down)

root

RAL

root

6LR

root

RAL

root

6LR

root

RAL

root

6LR

Table 19: Headers Needed in Non-Storing Mode: RPI, RH3, IPv6-in-IPv6 Encapsulation

8.1.  Non-Storing Mode: Interaction between Leaf and Root

This section describes the communication ﬂow in Non-Storing mode (Non-SM) between the
following:

RAL to root

root to RAL

RUL to root

root to RUL

8.1.1.  Non-SM: Example of Flow from RAL to Root

In Non-Storing mode, the leaf node uses default routing to send traﬃc to the root. The RPI must
be included since it contains the Rank information, which is used to avoid and/or detect loops.

RAL (6LN) --> 6LR_i --> root(6LBR)

For example, a communication ﬂow could be: Node F --> Node D --> Node B --> Node A (root)

Robles, et al.

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 9008

RPL Data Plane

April 2021

6LR_i represents the intermediate routers from the source to the destination. In this case, 1 <= i
<= n, where n is the total number of routers (6LR) that the packet goes through, from the source
(RAL) to the destination (6LBR).

This situation is the same case as Storing mode.

Table 20 summarizes which headers are needed for this use case.

Header

RAL src

6LR_i

6LBR dst

Added headers

RPI

Modiﬁed headers

Removed headers

Untouched headers

--

--

--

--

RPI

--

--

--

--

RPI

--

Table 20: Non-SM: Summary of the Use of Headers from
RAL to Root

8.1.2.  Non-SM: Example of Flow from Root to RAL

In this case, the ﬂow comprises:

root (6LBR) --> 6LR_i --> RAL (6LN)

For example, a communication ﬂow could be: Node A (root) --> Node B --> Node D --> Node F

6LR_i represents the intermediate routers from the source to the destination. In this case, 1 <= i
<= n, where n is the total number of routers (6LR) that the packet goes through, from the source
(6LBR) to the destination (RAL).

The 6LBR inserts an RH3 and an RPI. No IPv6-in-IPv6 header is necessary as the traﬃc originates
with a RPL-aware node, the 6LBR. The destination is known to be RPL aware because the root
knows the whole topology in Non-Storing mode.

Table 21 summarizes which headers are needed for this use case.

Header

6LBR src

6LR_i

RAL dst

Added headers

RPI, RH3

--

Modiﬁed headers

Removed headers

Untouched headers

--

--

--

RPI, RH3

--

--

--

--

RPI, RH3

--

Table 21: Non-SM: Summary of the Use of Headers from Root
to RAL

Robles, et al.

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 9008

RPL Data Plane

April 2021

8.1.3.  Non-SM: Example of Flow from Root to RUL

In this case, the ﬂow comprises:

root (6LBR) --> 6LR_i --> RUL (IPv6 dst node)

For example, a communication ﬂow could be: Node A (root) --> Node B --> Node E --> Node G
(RUL)

6LR_i represents the intermediate routers from the source to the destination. In this case, 1 <= i
<= n, where n is the total number of routers (6LR) that the packet goes through, from the source
(6LBR) to the destination (RUL).

In the 6LBR, the RH3 is added; it is then modiﬁed at each intermediate 6LR (6LR_1 and so on),
and it is fully consumed in the last 6LR (6LR_n) but is left in place. When the RPI is added, the
RUL, which does not understand the RPI, will ignore it (per
necessary.

[RFC8200]

); thus, encapsulation is not

Table 22 summarizes which headers are needed for this use case.

Header

Added headers

Modiﬁed headers

Removed
headers

Untouched
headers

6LBR
src

RPI,
RH3

--

--

--

6LR_i i=
(1,..,n-1)

6LR_n

RUL dst

--

--

RPI, RH3

RPI, RH3
(consumed)

--

--

--

--

--

--

--

RPI, RH3 (both
ignored)

Table 22: Non-SM: Summary of the Use of Headers from Root to RUL

8.1.4.  Non-SM: Example of Flow from RUL to Root

In this case, the ﬂow comprises:

RUL (IPv6 src node) --> 6LR_1 --> 6LR_i --> root (6LBR) dst

For example, a communication ﬂow could be: Node G --> Node E --> Node B --> Node A (root)

6LR_i represents the intermediate routers from the source to the destination. In this case, 1 <= i
<= n, where n is the total number of routers (6LR) that the packet goes through, from the source
(RUL) to the destination (6LBR). For example, 6LR_1 (i=1) is the router that receives the packets
from the RUL.

Robles, et al.

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 9008

RPL Data Plane

April 2021

In this case, the RPI is added by the ﬁrst 6LR (6LR_1) (Node E), encapsulated in an IPv6-in-IPv6
header, and modiﬁed in the subsequent 6LRs in the ﬂow. The RPI and the entire packet are
consumed by the root.

Table 23 summarizes which headers are needed for this use case.

Header

RUL src

6LR_1

6LR_i

6LBR dst

Added headers

Modiﬁed headers

Removed headers

Untouched headers

--

--

--

--

IPv6-in-IPv6 (RPI)

--

--

--

--

RPI

--

--

--

--

IPv6-in-IPv6 (RPI)

--

Table 23: Non-SM: Summary of the Use of Headers from RUL to Root

8.2.  Non-Storing Mode: Interaction between Leaf and Internet

This section describes the communication ﬂow in Non-Storing mode (Non-SM) between the
following:

RAL to Internet

Internet to RAL

RUL to Internet

Internet to RUL

8.2.1.  Non-SM: Example of Flow from RAL to Internet

In this case, the ﬂow comprises:

RAL (6LN) src --> 6LR_i --> root (6LBR) --> Internet dst

For example, a communication ﬂow could be: Node F (RAL) --> Node D --> Node B --> Node A -->
Internet. Having the RAL information about the RPL domain, the packet may be encapsulated to
the root when the destination is not in the RPL domain of the RAL.

6LR_i represents the intermediate routers from the source to the destination, and 1 <= i <= n,
where n is the total number of routers (6LR) that the packet goes through, from the source (RAL)
to the 6LBR.

In this case, the encapsulation from the RAL to the root is optional. The simplest case is when the
RPI gets to the Internet (as the Table 24 shows it), knowing that the Internet is going to ignore it.

The IPv6 ﬂow label should be set to zero to aid in compression
to a non-zero value when sending towards the Internet

[RFC6437]
.

[RFC8138]

, and the 6LBR will set it

Robles, et al.

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 9008

RPL Data Plane

April 2021

Table 24 summarizes which headers are needed for this use case when no encapsulation is used.
Table 25 summarizes which headers are needed for this use case when encapsulation to the root
is used.

Header

RAL src

6LR_i

6LBR

Internet dst

Added headers

RPI

--

--

Modiﬁed headers

Removed headers

Untouched headers

--

--

--

RPI

RPI

--

--

--

--

--

--

--

RPI (Ignored)

Table 24: Non-SM: Summary of the Use of Headers from RAL to
Internet with No Encapsulation

Header

RAL src

6LR_i

6LBR

Internet dst

Added headers

IP6v6-in-IPv6 (RPI)

--

Modiﬁed headers

Removed headers

Untouched headers

--

--

--

RPI

--

--

--

--

IPv6-in-IPv6 (RPI)

--

--

--

--

--

Table 25: Non-SM: Summary of the Use of Headers from RAL to Internet with Encapsulation
to the Root

8.2.2.  Non-SM: Example of Flow from Internet to RAL

In this case, the ﬂow comprises:

Internet --> root (6LBR) --> 6LR_i --> RAL dst (6LN)

For example, a communication ﬂow could be: Internet --> Node A (root) --> Node B --> Node D -->
Node F (RAL)

6LR_i represents the intermediate routers from source to destination, and 1 <= i <= n, where n is
the total number of routers (6LR) that the packet goes through, from the 6LBR to the destination
(RAL).

The 6LBR must add an RH3 header. As the 6LBR will know the path and address of the target
node, it can address the IPv6-in-IPv6 header to that node. The 6LBR will zero the ﬂow label upon
entry in order to aid compression

[RFC8138]
.

Table 26 summarizes which headers are needed for this use case.

Robles, et al.

Standards Track

Page 33

RFC 9008

RPL Data Plane

April 2021

Header

Internet
src

6LBR

6LR_i

RAL dst

Added headers

Modiﬁed
headers

Removed
headers

Untouched
headers

--

--

--

--

--

--

--

IPv6-in-IPv6
(RH3, RPI)

--

IPv6-in-IPv6
(RH3, RPI)

--

--

--

--

IPv6-in-IPv6
(RH3, RPI)

--

Table 26: Non-SM: Summary of the Use of Headers from Internet to RAL

8.2.3.  Non-SM: Example of Flow from RUL to Internet

In this case, the ﬂow comprises:

RUL (IPv6 src node) --> 6LR_1 --> 6LR_i --> root (6LBR) --> Internet dst

For example, a communication ﬂow could be: Node G --> Node E --> Node B --> Node A -->
Internet

6LR_i represents the intermediate routers from the source to the destination, and 1 <= i <= n,
where n is the total number of routers (6LRs) that the packet goes through, from the source (RUL)
to the 6LBR, e.g., 6LR_1 (i=1).

In this case, the ﬂow label is recommended to be zero in the RUL. As the RUL parent adds RPL
headers in the RUL packet, the ﬁrst 6LR (6LR_1) will add an RPI inside a new IPv6-in-IPv6 header.
The IPv6-in-IPv6 header will be addressed to the root. This case is identical to the Storing mode
case (see Section 7.2.3).

Table 27 summarizes which headers are needed for this use case.

Header

Added headers

Modiﬁed headers

Removed headers

RUL
src

--

--

--

6LR_1

IP6-IP6
(RPI)

--

--

6LR_i i=
(2,..,n)

6LBR

Internet
dst

--

RPI

--

--

--

IP6-IP6
(RPI)

--

--

--

Robles, et al.

Standards Track

Page 34

RFC 9008

RPL Data Plane

April 2021

Header

Untouched
headers

RUL
src

--

6LR_1

6LR_i i=
(2,..,n)

6LBR

Internet
dst

--

--

--

--

Table 27: Non-SM: Summary of the Use of Headers from RUL to Internet

8.2.4.  Non-SM: Example of Flow from Internet to RUL

In this case, the ﬂow comprises:

Internet src --> root (6LBR) --> 6LR_i --> RUL (IPv6 dst node)

For example, a communication ﬂow could be: Internet --> Node A (root) --> Node B --> Node E -->
Node G

6LR_i represents the intermediate routers from the source to the destination, and 1 <= i <= n,
where n is the total number of routers (6LR) that the packet goes through, from the 6LBR to the
RUL.

The 6LBR must add an RH3 header inside an IPv6-in-IPv6 header. The 6LBR will know the path
and will recognize that the ﬁnal node is not a RPL-capable node as it will have received the
connectivity DAO from the nearest 6LR. The 6LBR can therefore make the IPv6-in-IPv6 header
destination be the last 6LR. The 6LBR will set to zero the ﬂow label upon entry in order to aid
compression

.
[RFC8138]

Table 28 summarizes which headers are needed for this use case.

Header

Internet
src

6LBR

6LR_i

6LR_n

Added headers

Modiﬁed
headers

Removed
headers

Untouched
headers

--

--

--

--

--

--

--

IP6-IP6 (RH3,
RPI)

--

IP6-IP6 (RH3,
RPI)

--

--

--

--

IP6-IP6 (RH3,
RPI)

--

RUL
dst

--

--

--

--

Table 28: Non-SM: Summary of the Use of Headers from Internet to RUL

Robles, et al.

Standards Track

Page 35

RFC 9008

RPL Data Plane

April 2021

8.3.  Non-SM: Interaction between Leaves

This section describes the communication ﬂow in Non-Storing mode (Non-SM) between the
following:

RAL to RAL

RAL to RUL

RUL to RAL

RUL to RUL

8.3.1.  Non-SM: Example of Flow from RAL to RAL

In this case, the ﬂow comprises:

RAL src --> 6LR_ia --> root (6LBR) --> 6LR_id --> RAL dst

For example, a communication ﬂow could be: Node F (RAL src) --> Node D --> Node B --> Node A
(root) --> Node B --> Node E --> Node H (RAL dst)

6LR_ia represents the intermediate routers from the source to the root, and 1 <= ia <= n, where n
is the total number of routers (6LR) that the packet goes through, from the RAL to the root.

6LR_id represents the intermediate routers from the root to the destination, and 1 <= id <= m,
where m is the total number of the intermediate routers (6LR).

This case involves only nodes in same RPL domain. The originating node will add an RPI to the
original packet and send the packet Upward.

The originating node may put the RPI (RPI1) into an IPv6-in-IPv6 header addressed to the root so
that the 6LBR can remove that header. If it does not, then the RPI1 is forwarded down from the
root in the inner header to no avail.

The 6LBR will need to insert an RH3 header, which requires that it add an IPv6-in-IPv6 header. It
removes the RPI (RPI1), as it was contained in an IPv6-in-IPv6 header addressed to it. Otherwise,
there may be an RPI buried inside the inner IP header, which should be ignored. The root inserts
an RPI (RPI2) alongside the RH3.

Networks that use the RPL point-to-point extension
DODAGs and fall into this scenario or the scenario given in Section 8.1.2, with the originating
node acting as a 6LBR.

 are essentially Non-Storing

[RFC6997]

Table 29 summarizes which headers are needed for this use case when encapsulation to the root
takes place.

Robles, et al.

Standards Track

Page 36

RFC 9008

RPL Data Plane

April 2021

Table 30 summarizes which headers are needed for this use case when there is no encapsulation
to the root. Note that in the Modiﬁed headers row, going up in each 6LR_ia only the RPI1 is
changed. Going down, in each 6LR_id the IPv6 header is swapped with the RH3 so both are
changed alongside with the RPI2.

Header

RAL src

6LR_ia

6LBR

6LR_id

RAL dst

Added headers

IP6-IP6
(RPI1)

--

IP6-IP6 (RH3 ->
RAL, RPI2)

--

Modiﬁed
headers

Removed
headers

Untouched
headers

--

--

--

RPI1

--

IP6-IP6 (RH3,
RPI2)

--

--

IP6-IP6 (RPI1)

--

--

--

IP6-IP6
(RH3, RPI2)

--

Table 29: Non-SM: Summary of the Use of Headers from RAL to RAL with Encapsulation to the Root

Header

RAL
src

6LR_ia

6LBR

6LR_id

RAL dst

Added headers

RPI1

--

IP6-IP6 (RH3,
RPI2)

--

--

--

--

--

Modiﬁed
headers

Removed
headers

Untouched
headers

--

--

--

RPI1

--

--

IP6-IP6 (RH3,
RPI2)

--

--

--

IP6-IP6 (RH3,
RPI2)

RPI1

RPI1

RPI1 (Ignored)

Table 30: Non-SM: Summary of the Use of Headers from RAL to RAL without Encapsulation to the
Root

8.3.2.  Non-SM: Example of Flow from RAL to RUL

In this case, the ﬂow comprises:

RAL --> 6LR_ia --> root (6LBR) --> 6LR_id --> RUL (IPv6 dst node)

For example, a communication ﬂow could be: Node F (RAL) --> Node D --> Node B --> Node A
(root) --> Node B --> Node E --> Node G (RUL)

6LR_ia represents the intermediate routers from the source to the root, and 1 <= ia <= n, where n
is the total number of intermediate routers (6LR).

Robles, et al.

Standards Track

Page 37

RFC 9008

RPL Data Plane

April 2021

6LR_id represents the intermediate routers from the root to the destination, and 1 <= id <= m,
where m is the total number of the intermediate routers (6LRs).

As in the previous case, the RAL (6LN) may insert an RPI (RPI1) header, which must be in an
IPv6-in-IPv6 header addressed to the root so that the 6LBR can remove this RPI. The 6LBR will
then insert an RH3 inside a new IPv6-in-IPv6 header addressed to the last 6LR_id (6LR_id = m)
alongside the insertion of RPI2.

If the originating node does not put the RPI (RPI1) into an IPv6-in-IPv6 header addressed to the
root, then the RPI1 is forwarded down from the root in the inner header to no avail.

Table 31 summarizes which headers are needed for this use case when encapsulation to the root
takes place. Table 32 summarizes which headers are needed for this use case when no
encapsulation to the root takes place.

Header

RAL src

6LR_ia

6LBR

6LR_id

6LR_m

Added
headers

Modiﬁed
headers

Removed
headers

Untouched
headers

--

--

--

IP6-IP6
(RPI1)

--

IP6-IP6
(RH3, RPI2)

--

RPI1

--

IP6-IP6
(RH3, RPI2)

--

--

--

--

IP6-IP6
(RPI1)

--

--

--

IP6-IP6
(RH3, RPI2)

--

RUL
dst

--

--

--

--

Table 31: Non-SM: Summary of the Use of Headers from RAL to RUL with Encapsulation to the Root

Header

Added
headers

Modiﬁed
headers

Removed
headers

6LR_ia

6LBR

6LR_id

6LR_n

RUL dst

RAL
src

RPI1

--

--

--

RPI1

--

IP6-IP6
(RH3,
RPI2)

--

--

--

IP6-IP6
(RH3, RPI2)

--

--

--

IP6-IP6
(RH3, RPI2)

--

--

--

Robles, et al.

Standards Track

Page 38

RFC 9008

RPL Data Plane

April 2021

Header

RAL
src

6LR_ia

6LBR

6LR_id

6LR_n

RUL dst

Untouched
headers

--

--

RPI1

RPI1

RPI1

RPI1
(ignored)

Table 32: Non-SM: Summary of the Use of Headers from RAL to RUL without Encapsulation to the
Root

8.3.3.  Non-SM: Example of Flow from RUL to RAL

In this case, the ﬂow comprises:

RUL (IPv6 src node) --> 6LR_1 --> 6LR_ia --> root (6LBR) --> 6LR_id --> RAL dst (6LN)

For example, a communication ﬂow could be: Node G (RUL) --> Node E --> Node B --> Node A
(root) --> Node B --> Node E --> Node H (RAL)

6LR_ia represents the intermediate routers from source to the root, and 1 <= ia <= n, where n is
the total number of intermediate routers (6LR).

6LR_id represents the intermediate routers from the root to the destination, and 1 <= id <= m,
where m is the total number of the intermediate routers (6LR).

In this scenario, the RPI (RPI1) is added by the ﬁrst 6LR (6LR_1) inside an IPv6-in-IPv6 header
addressed to the root. The 6LBR will remove this RPI and add its own IPv6-in-IPv6 header
containing an RH3 header and an RPI (RPI2).

Table 33 summarizes which headers are needed for this use case.

Header

Added
headers

Modiﬁed
headers

Removed
headers

Untouched
headers

RUL
src

--

--

--

--

--

--

--

6LR_1

6LR_ia

6LBR

6LR_id

RAL dst

IP6-IP6
(RPI1)

--

IP6-IP6
(RH3, RPI2)

--

RPI1

--

IP6-IP6
(RH3, RPI2)

--

--

--

--

IP6-IP6
(RPI1)

--

--

--

IP6-IP6
(RH3, RPI2)

--

Table 33: Non-SM: Summary of the Use of Headers from RUL to RAL

8.3.4.  Non-SM: Example of Flow from RUL to RUL

In this case, the ﬂow comprises:

Robles, et al.

Standards Track

Page 39

RFC 9008

RPL Data Plane

April 2021

RUL (IPv6 src node) --> 6LR_1 --> 6LR_ia --> root (6LBR) --> 6LR_id --> RUL (IPv6 dst node)

For example, a communication ﬂow could be: Node G --> Node E --> Node B --> Node A (root) -->
Node C --> Node J

6LR_ia represents the intermediate routers from the source to the root, and 1 <= ia <= n, where n
is the total number of intermediate routers (6LR).

6LR_id represents the intermediate routers from the root to the destination, and 1 <= id <= m,
where m is the total number of the intermediate routers (6LR).

This scenario is the combination of the previous two cases.

Table 34 summarizes which headers are needed for this use case.

Header

Added
headers

Modiﬁed
headers

Removed
headers

Untouched
headers

RUL
src

--

--

--

--

6LR_1

6LR_ia

6LBR

6LR_id

6LR_m

IP6-IP6
(RPI1)

--

IP6-IP6
(RH3,
RPI2)

--

--

--

RPI1

--

--

--

IP6-IP6
(RPI1)

--

--

IP6-IP6
(RH3,
RPI2)

--

--

--

--

IP6-IP6
(RH3,
RPI2)

--

RUL
dst

--

--

--

--

Table 34: Non-SM: Summary of the Use of Headers from RUL to RUL

9.  Operational Considerations of Supporting RULs

Roughly half of the situations described in this document involve leaf ("host") nodes that do not
speak RPL. These nodes fall into two further categories: ones that drop a packet that have RPI or
RH3 headers, and ones that continue to process a packet that has RPI and/or RH3 headers.

 provides for new rules that suggest that nodes that have not been conﬁgured

[RFC8200]
(explicitly) to examine Hop-by-Hop Options headers should ignore those headers and continue
processing the packet. Despite this, and despite the switch from 0x63 to 0x23, there may be nodes
that predate RFC 8200 or are simply intolerant. Those nodes will drop packets that continue to
have RPL artifacts in them. In general, such nodes cannot be easily supported in RPL LLNs.

Robles, et al.

Standards Track

Page 40

RFC 9008

RPL Data Plane

April 2021

There are some speciﬁc cases where it is possible to remove the RPL artifacts prior to forwarding
the packet to the leaf host. The critical thing is that the artifacts have been inserted by the RPL
root inside an IPv6-in-IPv6 header, and that the header has been addressed to the 6LR
immediately prior to the leaf node. In that case, in the process of removing the IPv6-in-IPv6
header, the artifacts can also be removed.

The above case occurs whenever traﬃc originates from the outside the LLN (the "Internet" cases
above), and Non-Storing mode is used. In Non-Storing mode, the RPL root knows the exact
topology (as it must create the RH3 header) and therefore knows which 6LR is prior to the leaf.
For example, in Figure 3, Node E is the 6LR prior to leaf Node G, or Node C is the 6LR prior to leaf
Node J.

Traﬃc originating from the RPL root (such as when the data collection system is co-located on
the RPL root), does not require an IPv6-in-IPv6 header (in Storing or Non-Storing mode), as the
packet is originating at the root, and the root can insert the RPI and RH3 headers directly into the
packet as it is formed. Such a packet is slightly smaller, but can only be sent to nodes (whether
RPL aware or not) that will tolerate the RPL artifacts.

An operator that ﬁnds itself with a high amount of traﬃc from the RPL root to RPL-unaware
leaves will have to do IPv6-in-IPv6 encapsulation if the leaf is not tolerant of the RPL artifacts.
Such an operator could otherwise omit this unnecessary header if it was certain of the properties
of the leaf.

As the Storing mode cannot know the ﬁnal path of the traﬃc, intolerant leaf nodes, which drop
packets with RPL artifacts, cannot be supported.

10.  Operational Considerations of Introducing 0x23

This section describes the operational considerations of introducing the new RPI Option Type of
0x23.

During bootstrapping, the node receives the DIO with the information of RPI Option Type,
indicating the new RPI in the DODAG Conﬁguration option ﬂag. The DODAG root is in charge of
conﬁguring the current network with the new value, through DIO messages, and determining
when all the nodes have been set with the new value. The DODAG should change to a new
DODAG version. In case of rebooting, the node does not remember the RPI Option Type. Thus, the
DIO is sent with a ﬂag indicating the new RPI Option Type.

The DODAG Conﬁguration option is contained in a RPL DIO message, which contains a unique
Destination Advertisement Trigger Sequence Number (DTSN) counter. The leaf nodes respond to
this message with DAO messages containing the same DTSN. This is a normal part of RPL routing;
the RPL root therefore knows when the updated DODAG Conﬁguration option has been seen by
all nodes.

Robles, et al.

Standards Track

Page 41

RFC 9008

RPL Data Plane

April 2021

Before the migration happens, all the RPL-aware nodes should support both values. The
migration procedure is triggered when the DIO is sent with the ﬂag indicating the new RPI
Option Type. Namely, it remains at 0x63 until it is sure that the network is capable of 0x23, then
it abruptly changes to 0x23. The 0x23 RPI Option allows the sending of packets to non-RPL nodes.
The non-RPL nodes should ignore the option and continue processing the packets.

As mentioned previously, indicating the new RPI in the DODAG Conﬁguration option ﬂag is a way
to avoid the ﬂag day (abrupt changeover) in a network using 0x63 as the RPI Option Type value.
It is suggested that RPL implementations accept both 0x63 and 0x23 RPI Option Type values
when processing the header to enable interoperability.

11.  IANA Considerations

11.1.  Option Type in RPL Option

This document updates the registration made in the "Destination Options and Hop-by-Hop
Options" subregistry

 from 0x63 to 0x23 as shown in Table 35.

[RFC6553]

Hex Value

Binary Value

Description

Reference

act

chg

rest

0x23

0x63

00

01

1

1

00011

RPL Option

This document

00011

RPL Option (DEPRECATED)

[RFC6553]

, this document

Table 35: Option Type in RPL Option

The "DODAG Conﬁguration Option Flags for MOP 0..6" subregistry is updated as follows (Table
36):

Bit Number

Capability Description

Reference

3

RPI 0x23 enable

This document

Table 36: DODAG Conﬁguration Option Flag to Indicate the
RPI Flag Day

11.2.  Change to the "DODAG Conﬁguration Option Flags" Subregistry

IANA has changed the name of the "DODAG Conﬁguration Option Flags" subregistry to "DODAG
Conﬁguration Option Flags for MOP 0..6".

The subregistry references this document for this change.

11.3.  Change MOP Value 7 to Reserved

IANA has changed the registration status of value 7 in the "Mode of Operation" subregistry from
Unassigned to Reserved. This change is in support of future work.

Robles, et al.

Standards Track

Page 42

RFC 9008

RPL Data Plane

April 2021

This document is listed as a reference for this entry in the subregistry.

12.  Security Considerations

The security considerations covered in
the RPL Domain.

[RFC6553]

 and

[RFC6554]

 apply when the packets are in

The IPv6-in-IPv6 mechanism described in this document is much more limited than the general
mechanism described in
packets and forward them could be exploited by nodes to disguise the origin of an attack.

. The willingness of each node in the LLN to decapsulate

[RFC2473]

While a typical LLN may be a very poor origin for attack traﬃc (as the networks tend to be very
slow, and the nodes often have very low duty cycles), given enough nodes, LLNs could still have a
signiﬁcant impact, particularly if the attack is targeting another LLN. Additionally, some uses of
RPL involve large-backbone, ISP-scale equipment
, which may be equipped with multiple
100 Gb/s interfaces.

[ACP]

Blocking or careful ﬁltering of IPv6-in-IPv6 traﬃc entering the LLN as described above will make
sure that any attack that is mounted must originate from compromised nodes within the LLN.
The use of network ingress ﬁltering
operator to the existence of the attack as well as drop the attack traﬃc. As the RPL network is
typically numbered from a single preﬁx, which is itself assigned by RPL, network ingress ﬁltering
[BCP38]

 involves a single preﬁx comparison and should be trivial to automatically conﬁgure.

 on egress traﬃc at the RPL root will alert the

[BCP38]

There are some scenarios where IPv6-in-IPv6 traﬃc should be allowed to pass through the RPL
root, such as the IPv6-in-IPv6 mediated communications between a new pledge and the Join
Registrar/Coordinator (JRC) when using
. This is the case for the
RPL root to do careful ﬁltering: it occurs only when the Join Coordinator is not co-located inside
the RPL root.

[ZEROTOUCH-JOIN]

[BRSKI]

 and

With the above precautions, an attack using IPv6-in-IPv6 tunnels can only be by a node within
the LLN on another node within the LLN. Such an attack could, of course, be done directly. An
attack of this kind is meaningful only if the source addresses are either fake or if the point is to
amplify return traﬃc. Such an attack could also be done without the use of IPv6-in-IPv6 headers,
by using forged source addresses instead. If the attack requires bidirectional communication,
then IPv6-in-IPv6 provides no advantages.

[RFC2473]

Whenever IPv6-in-IPv6 headers are being proposed, there is a concern about creating security
issues. In the Security Considerations section of
tunnel entry and exit points can be secured by securing the IPv6 path between them. This
recommendation is not practical for RPL networks.
what additional details are needed in order to "Use IPsec". While the use of Encapsulating
Security Payload (ESP) would prevent source address forgeries, in order to use it with
compression would have to occur before encryption, as the
encrypted, there would be no further redundancy to compress. These are minor issues. The
major issue is how to establish trust enough such that Internet Key Exchange Protocol Version 2

,
[RFC8138]
 compression is lossy. Once

 (Section 9), it was suggested that

 provides guidance on what on

[RFC8138]

[RFC5406]

Robles, et al.

Standards Track

Page 43

RFC 9008

RPL Data Plane

April 2021

(IKEv2) could be used. This would require a system of certiﬁcates to be present in every single
node, including any Internet nodes that might need to communicate with the LLN. Thus, using
IPsec requires a global PKI in the general case.

More signiﬁcantly, the use of IPsec tunnels to protect the IPv6-in-IPv6 headers would, in the
general case, scale with the square of the number of nodes. This is a lot of resources for a
constrained nodes on a constrained network. In the end, the IPsec tunnels would be providing
only BCP38-like origin authentication! That is, IPsec provides a transitive guarantee to the tunnel
 on traﬃc going in. Just
exit point that the tunnel entry point did network ingress ﬁltering
doing origin ﬁltering per BCP 38 at the entry and exit of the LLN provides a similar level of
security without all the scaling and trust problems related to IPv6 tunnels as discussed in
[RFC2473]

. IPsec is not recommended.

[BCP38]

An LLN with hostile nodes within it would not be protected against impersonation within the
LLN by entry/exit ﬁltering.

The RH3 header usage described here can be abused in equivalent ways. An external attacker
may form a packet with an RH3 that is not fully consumed and encapsulate it to hide the RH3
from intermediate nodes and disguise the origin of traﬃc. As such, the attacker's RH3 header will
not be seen by the network until it reaches the destination, which will decapsulate it. As
indicated in
only used between RPL routers. As such, if there is an RH3 that is not fully consumed in the
encapsulated packet, the node that decapsulates it
originated in the RPL domain and drop the packet otherwise.

, RPL routers are responsible for ensuring that an SRH is

 ensure that the outer packet was

Section 4.2 of [RFC6554]

MUST

Section 2 of [RFC6554]

, RPL Border Routers "do not allow datagrams

Also, as indicated by
carrying an SRH header to enter or exit a RPL routing domain." This sentence must be
understood as concerning non-fully-consumed packets. A consumed (inert) RH3 header could be
present in a packet that ﬂows from one LLN, crosses the Internet, and enters another LLN. Per
the discussion in this document, such headers do not need to be removed. However, there is no
case described in this document where an RH3 is inserted in a Non-Storing network on traﬃc
that is leaving the LLN, but this document should not preclude such a future innovation.

In short, a packet that crosses the border of the RPL domain
RH3

 be fully consumed.

MUST

MAY

 carry an RH3, and if so, that

The RPI, if permitted to enter the LLN, could be used by an attacker to change the priority of a
packet by selecting a diﬀerent RPLInstanceID, perhaps one with a higher energy cost, for
instance. It could also be that not all nodes are reachable in an LLN using the default
RPLInstanceID, but a change of RPLInstanceID would permit an attacker to bypass such ﬁltering.
Like the RH3, an RPI is to be inserted by the RPL root on traﬃc entering the LLN by ﬁrst inserting
an IPv6-in-IPv6 header. The attacker's RPI therefore will not be seen by the network. Upon
reaching the destination node, the RPI has no further meaning and is just skipped; the presence
of a second RPI will have no meaning to the end node as the packet has already been identiﬁed
as being at its ﬁnal destination.

Robles, et al.

Standards Track

Page 44

RFC 9008

RPL Data Plane

April 2021

SHOULD

For traﬃc leaving a RUL, if the RUL adds an uninitialized RPI (e.g., with a value of zero), then the
6LR as a RPL Border Router
 rewrite the RPI to indicate the selected Instance and set the
ﬂags. This is done in order to avoid the following scenarios: 1) The leaf is an external router that
passes a packet that it did not generate and that carries an unrelated RPI, and 2) The leaf is an
attacker or presents misconﬁguration and tries to inject traﬃc in a protected Instance. Also, this
applies to the case where the leaf is aware of the RPL Instance and passes a correct RPI; the 6LR
needs a conﬁguration that allows that leaf to inject in that instance.

The RH3 and RPIs could be abused by an attacker inside of the network to route packets in
nonobvious ways, perhaps eluding observation. This usage appears consistent with a normal
operation of

 and cannot be restricted at all. This is a feature, not a bug.

[RFC6997]

[RFC7416]
headers, and this document does not change that analysis.

 deals with many other threats to LLNs not directly related to the use of IPv6-in-IPv6

Nodes within the LLN can use the IPv6-in-IPv6 mechanism to mount an attack on another part of
the LLN, while disguising the origin of the attack. The mechanism can even be abused to make it
appear that the attack is coming from outside the LLN, and unless countered, this could be used
to mount a DDOS attack upon nodes elsewhere in the Internet. See
of such attacks already seen in the real world.

[DDOS-KREBS]

 for an example

 with

[RFC8505]

If an attack comes from inside of LLN, it can be alleviated with SAVI (Source Address Validation
Improvement) using
with an address that is not registered, and the registration process checks for topological
correctness. Notice that there is Layer 2 authentication in most of the cases. If an attack comes
from outside LLN, IPv6-in-IPv6 can be used to hide inner routing headers, but by construction,
the RH3 can typically only address nodes within the LLN. That is, an RH3 with a CmprI less than
8 should be considered an attack (see
Section 3 of [RFC6554]

. The attacker will not be able to source traﬃc

[RFC8928]

).

Nodes outside of the LLN will need to pass IPv6-in-IPv6 traﬃc through the RPL root to perform
this attack. To counter, the RPL root
 either restrict ingress of IPv6-in-IPv6 packets (the
simpler solution), or it
layer payload as described in
ﬁltering

. In particular, the RPL root
 on the source addresses of all IP headers that it examines in both directions.

 walk the IP header extension chain until it can inspect the upper-

 do network ingress

[RFC7045]

[BCP38]

SHOULD

SHOULD

SHOULD

Note: there are some situations where a preﬁx will spread across multiple LLNs via mechanisms
such as the one described in
 needs
to take this into account, either by exchanging detailed routing information on each LLN or by
 further towards the Internet, so that the details of
moving the network ingress ﬁltering
the multiple LLNs do not matter.

. In this case, the network ingress ﬁltering

[RFC8929]

[BCP38]

[BCP38]

13.  References

13.1.  Normative References

[BCP38]

Ferguson, P.
Attacks which employ IP Source Address Spooﬁng" BCP 38 RFC 2827

D. Senie "Network Ingress Filtering: Defeating Denial of Service
, May 2000.

 and

,

,

,

Robles, et al.

Standards Track

Page 45

RFC 9008

RPL Data Plane

April 2021

<https://rfc-editor.org/info/bcp38>

[RFC2119]

[RFC6040]

[RFC6282]

[RFC6550]

[RFC6553]

[RFC6554]

[RFC7045]

[RFC8025]

[RFC8138]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8200]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Briscoe, B. "Tunnelling of Explicit Congestion Notiﬁcation" RFC 6040 DOI
10.17487/RFC6040

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6040>

, November 2010,

,

,

,

.

 and

Hui, J., Ed.
802.15.4-Based Networks" RFC 6282 DOI 10.17487/RFC6282
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6282>

P. Thubert "Compression Format for IPv6 Datagrams over IEEE
, September 2011,

,
,

,

.

,

Winter, T., Ed. Thubert, P., Ed. Brandt, A. Hui, J. Kelsey, R. Levis, P. Pister, K.
,
Struik, R. Vasseur, JP.
R. Alexander "RPL: IPv6 Routing Protocol for Low-
,
Power and Lossy Networks" RFC 6550 DOI 10.17487/RFC6550
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6550>

, March 2012,

, and

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

 and

Hui, J.
JP. Vasseur "The Routing Protocol for Low-Power and Lossy
Networks (RPL) Option for Carrying RPL Information in Data-Plane Datagrams"
, March 2012,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 6553 DOI 10.17487/RFC6553
rfc6553>

,
.

,

,

,

Hui, J. Vasseur, JP. Culler, D.
Routes with the Routing Protocol for Low-Power and Lossy Networks (RPL)"
RFC 6554 DOI 10.17487/RFC6554
rfc6554>

V. Manral "An IPv6 Routing Header for Source

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, March 2012,

, and

,
.

,

,

 and

Carpenter, B.
Headers" RFC 7045 DOI 10.17487/RFC7045
editor.org/info/rfc7045>

,

,

.

,

S. Jiang "Transmission and Processing of IPv6 Extension

, December 2013,

<https://www.rfc-

 and

Thubert, P., Ed.
Network (6LoWPAN) Paging Dispatch" RFC 8025 DOI 10.17487/RFC8025
November 2016,

R. Cragie "IPv6 over Low-Power Wireless Personal Area
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8025>

,

,

,

.

,

Thubert, P., Ed. Bormann, C. Toutain, L.
R. Cragie "IPv6 over Low-Power
,
Wireless Personal Area Network (6LoWPAN) Routing Header" RFC 8138 DOI
10.17487/RFC8138

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8138>

, April 2017,

, and

,
.

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

Deering, S.
86 RFC 8200 DOI 10.17487/RFC8200
rfc8200>

 and
,

,

.

,

R. Hinden "Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6) Speciﬁcation" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, July 2017,

,

13.2.  Informative References

Robles, et al.

Standards Track

Page 46

RFC 9008

RPL Data Plane

April 2021

[ACP]

[BRSKI]

[DDOS-KREBS]

[RFC0801]

[RFC2460]

[RFC2473]

[RFC4443]

[RFC5406]

[RFC6437]

[RFC6775]

[RFC6997]

,

,

Eckert, T. Behringer, M. H.
(ACP)" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-anima-autonomic-control-
,
plane-30
autonomic-control-plane-30>

<https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-anima-

S. Bjarnason "An Autonomic Control Plane

, 30 October 2020,

, and

,

.

,

Pritikin, M. Richardson, M. C. Eckert, T. Behringer, M. H.
,
"Bootstrapping Remote Secure Key Infrastructures (BRSKI)" Work in Progress
, 11 November 2020,
Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-anima-bootstrapping-keyinfra-45
<https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-anima-bootstrapping-keyinfra-45>

, and
,

K. Watsen

,

,

,

.

,

Goodin, D. "Record-breaking DDoS reportedly delivered by >145k hacked
cameras"
technology/2016/09/botnet-of-145k-cameras-reportedly-deliver-internets-biggest-
ddos-ever/>

<https://arstechnica.com/information-

, September 2016,

.

,

Postel, J. "NCP/TCP transition plan" RFC 801 DOI 10.17487/RFC0801
1981,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc801>

,

.

, November

 and
Deering, S.
,
2460 DOI 10.17487/RFC2460
rfc2460>

.

,

R. Hinden "Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6) Speciﬁcation" RFC

,

, December 1998,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

 and

Conta, A.
,
2473 DOI 10.17487/RFC2473
rfc2473>

.

,

S. Deering "Generic Packet Tunneling in IPv6 Speciﬁcation" RFC
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, December 1998,

,

, and

,
Conta, A. Deering, S.
(ICMPv6) for the Internet Protocol Version 6 (IPv6) Speciﬁcation" STD 89 RFC
,
4443 DOI 10.17487/RFC4443
rfc4443>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

M. Gupta, Ed. "Internet Control Message Protocol

, March 2006,

,

,

.

,

Bellovin, S. "Guidelines for Specifying the Use of IPsec Version 2" BCP 146 RFC
,
5406 DOI 10.17487/RFC5406
rfc5406>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, February 2009,

.

,

,

,

,
Amante, S. Carpenter, B. Jiang, S.
,
Speciﬁcation" RFC 6437 DOI 10.17487/RFC6437
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6437>

, and

,

.

J. Rajahalme "IPv6 Flow Label

,

, November 2011,

<https://

,

,
Shelby, Z., Ed. Chakrabarti, S. Nordmark, E.
C. Bormann "Neighbor
Discovery Optimization for IPv6 over Low-Power Wireless Personal Area
Networks (6LoWPANs)" RFC 6775 DOI 10.17487/RFC6775
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6775>

, November 2012,

, and

,

,

,

.

,

,

,
,
Goyal, M., Ed. Baccelli, E. Philipp, M. Brandt, A.
J. Martocci "Reactive
Discovery of Point-to-Point Routes in Low-Power and Lossy Networks" RFC
,
6997 DOI 10.17487/RFC6997
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
rfc6997>

, August 2013,

, and

.

,

Robles, et al.

Standards Track

Page 47

RFC 9008

RPL Data Plane

April 2021

[RFC7102]

[RFC7416]

[RFC8180]

[RFC8504]

[RFC8505]

[RFC8928]

[RFC8929]

[RFC9010]

[TUNNELS]

,

Vasseur, JP. "Terms Used in Routing for Low-Power and Lossy Networks" RFC
7102 DOI 10.17487/RFC7102
,
rfc7102>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, January 2014,

,

.

,

,

M. Richardson, Ed.
Tsao, T. Alexander, R. Dohler, M. Daza, V. Lozano, A.
"A Security Threat Analysis for the Routing Protocol for Low-Power and Lossy
Networks (RPLs)" RFC 7416 DOI 10.17487/RFC7416
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7416>

, January 2015,

<https://

, and

,

,

,

,

.

,

Vilajosana, X., Ed. Pister, K.
Mode of IEEE 802.15.4e (6TiSCH) Conﬁguration" BCP 210 RFC 8180 DOI
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8180>
10.17487/RFC8180

T. Watteyne "Minimal IPv6 over the TSCH

, May 2017,

, and

,

,

,

,

,

,

, and
Chown, T. Loughney, J.
,
8504 DOI 10.17487/RFC8504
rfc8504>

.

T. Winters "IPv6 Node Requirements" BCP 220 RFC
, January 2019,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

,

Thubert, P., Ed. Nordmark, E. Chakrabarti, S.
Extensions for IPv6 over Low-Power Wireless Personal Area Network
,
(6LoWPAN) Neighbor Discovery" RFC 8505 DOI 10.17487/RFC8505
2018,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8505>

, and

,

.

,

,

C. Perkins "Registration

, November

,

Thubert, P., Ed. Sarikaya, B. Sethi, M.
R. Struik "Address-Protected
,
Neighbor Discovery for Low-Power and Lossy Networks" RFC 8928 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8928>
10.17487/RFC8928

, November 2020,

, and

,

,

,

.

,

Thubert, P., Ed. Perkins, C.E.
,
8929 DOI 10.17487/RFC8929
rfc8929>

.

, and
, November 2020,

E. Levy-Abegnoli "IPv6 Backbone Router" RFC

,

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

 and

,
Thubert, P., Ed.
Power and Lossy Networks) Leaves" RFC 9010 DOI 10.17487/RFC9010
2021,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9010>

M. Richardson "Routing for RPL (Routing Protocol for Low-

, April

,
.

,

M. Townsley "IP Tunnels in the Internet Architecture" Work in

,

 and
,

,
Touch, J.
Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-intarea-tunnels-10
<https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-intarea-tunnels-10>

.

, 12 September 2019,

[ZEROTOUCH-JOIN]

Richardson, M. "6tisch Zero-Touch Secure Join protocol" Work in

,

,

Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-6tisch-dtsecurity-zerotouch-join-04
2019,

<https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-6tisch-dtsecurity-zerotouch-join-04>

, 8 July

,

.

Acknowledgments

This work is done thanks to the grant given by the StandICT.eu project.

A special BIG thanks to
is based on his comments.

C. M. Heard

 for the help with Section 4. Much of the editing in that section

Robles, et al.

Standards Track

Page 48

RFC 9008

RPL Data Plane

April 2021

Additionally, the authors would like to acknowledge the review, feedback, and comments of the
following (in alphabetical order):
Duquennoy Cenk Guendogan Rahul Jadhav Benjamin Kaduk Matthias Kovatsch Gustavo
,
Mercado Subramanian Moonesamy Marcela Orbiscay Cristian Perez Charlie Perkins Alvaro
Retana Peter van der Stok Xavier Vilajosana Éric Vyncke

Dominique Barthel Robert Cragie Ralph Droms Simon

Thomas Watteyne

, and

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

.

Authors' Addresses

Maria Ines Robles
Universidad Tecno. Nac.(UTN)-FRM, Argentina /Aalto
University Finland
Coronel Rodríguez 273
M5500 Mendoza
Provincia de Mendoza
Argentina
Email:

 mariainesrobles@gmail.com

Michael C. Richardson
Sandelman Software Works
470 Dawson Avenue
Ottawa ON K1Z 5V7
Canada
Email:
URI:

 mcr+ietf@sandelman.ca

 http://www.sandelman.ca/mcr/

Pascal Thubert
Cisco Systems, Inc
Building D
45 Allee des Ormes - BP1200
06254 MOUGINS - Sophia Antipolis
France
Phone:
Email:

 +33 497 23 26 34
 pthubert@cisco.com

Robles, et al.

Standards Track

Page 49

