Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9560
Standards Track
April 2024
2070-1721
S. Hollenbeck
Verisign Labs

RFC 9560
Federated Authentication for the Registration Data
Access Protocol (RDAP) Using OpenID Connect

Abstract

The Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP) provides Representational State Transfer (RESTful)
web services to retrieve registration metadata from domain name and regional internet
registries. RDAP allows a server to make access control decisions based on client identity, and as
such, it includes support for client identification features provided by the Hypertext Transfer
Protocol (HTTP). Identification methods that require clients to obtain and manage credentials
from every RDAP server operator present management challenges for both clients and servers,
whereas a federated authentication system would make it easier to operate and use RDAP
without the need to maintain server-specific client credentials. This document describes a
federated authentication system for RDAP based on OpenID Connect.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9560
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Hollenbeck

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9560

OIDC for RDAP

April 2024

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Problem Statement

1.2.  Approach

2.  Conventions Used in This Document

3.  Federated Authentication for RDAP

3.1.  RDAP and OpenID Connect

3.1.1.  Terminology

3.1.2.  Client Considerations

3.1.3.  Overview

3.1.4.  RDAP Authentication and Authorization Steps

3.1.4.1.  Provider Discovery

3.1.4.2.  Authentication Request

3.1.4.3.  End User Authorization

3.1.4.4.  Authorization Response and Validation

3.1.4.5.  Token Processing

3.1.4.6.  Delivery of User Information

3.1.5.  Specialized Claims and Authorization Scope for RDAP

3.1.5.1.  Stated Purposes

3.1.5.2.  Do Not Track

4.  Common Protocol Features

4.1.  OpenID Connect Configuration

4.2.  RDAP Query Parameters

4.2.1.  RDAP Query Purpose

4.2.2.  RDAP Do Not Track

4

4

4

5

5

5

6

7

8

11

12

12

13

13

13

13

13

13

14

15

15

16

17

17

Hollenbeck

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9560

OIDC for RDAP

April 2024

4.2.3.  Parameter Processing

5.  Protocol Features for Session-Oriented Clients

5.1.  Data Structures

5.1.1.  Session

5.1.2.  Device Info

5.2.  Client Login

5.2.1.  End-User Identifier

5.2.2.  OP Issuer Identifier

5.2.3.  Login Response

5.2.4.  Clients with Limited User Interfaces

5.2.4.1.  UI-Constrained Client Login

5.2.4.2.  UI-Constrained Client Login Polling

5.3.  Session Status

5.4.  Session Refresh

5.5.  Client Logout

5.6.  Request Sequencing

6.  Protocol Features for Token-Oriented Clients

6.1.  Client Login

6.2.  Client Queries

6.3.  Access Token Validation

6.4.  Token Exchange

7.  RDAP Query Processing

8.  RDAP Conformance

9.  IANA Considerations

9.1.  RDAP Extensions Registry

9.2.  JSON Web Token Claims Registry

9.3.  RDAP Query Purpose Registry

10. Security Considerations

10.1.  Authentication and Access Control

18

18

18

18

19

20

20

21

22

24

24

25

26

28

30

31

32

32

32

32

33

33

33

33

33

34

34

36

37

Hollenbeck

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9560

OIDC for RDAP

April 2024

11. References

11.1.  Normative References

11.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

37

37

39

39

40

The Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP) provides Representational State Transfer (RESTful)
web services to retrieve registration metadata from domain name and regional internet
registries. RDAP allows a server to make access control decisions based on client identity, and as
such, it includes support for client identification features provided by the Hypertext Transfer
Protocol (HTTP)

[RFC9110]
.

[RFC7480]

RDAP is specified in multiple documents, including "HTTP Usage in the Registration Data Access
Protocol (RDAP)"
, "Security Services for the Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP)"
[RFC7481]
Responses for the Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP)"
 describes
client identification and authentication services that can be used with RDAP, but it does not
specify how any of these services can (or should) be used with RDAP.

, "Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP) Query Format"

[RFC9083] [RFC7481]
.

, and "JSON

[RFC9082]

1.1.  Problem Statement

The conventional "username and password" authentication method does not scale well in the
RDAP ecosystem. Assuming that all domain name and address registries will eventually provide
RDAP service, it is impractical and inefficient for users to secure login credentials from the
hundreds of different server operators. Authentication methods based on usernames and
passwords do not provide information that describes the user in sufficient detail (while
protecting the personal privacy of the user) for server operators to make fine-grained access
control decisions based on the user's identity. The authentication system used for RDAP needs to
address all of these needs.

1.2.  Approach

A basic level of RDAP service can be provided to users who possess an identifier issued by a
recognized provider who can authenticate and validate the user. For example, the identifiers
issued by social media services can be used. Users who require higher levels of service (and who
are willing to share more information about themselves to gain access to that service) can secure
identifiers from specialized providers who are or will be able to provide more detailed
information about the user. Server operators can then make access control decisions based on
the identification information provided by the user.

Hollenbeck

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9560

OIDC for RDAP

April 2024

A federated authentication system in which an RDAP server outsources identification and
authentication services to a trusted identity provider would make it easier to operate and use
RDAP by reusing existing identifiers to provide a basic level of access. It can also provide the
ability to collect additional user identification information, and that information can be shared
with the RDAP server operator with the consent of the user in order to help the server operator
make access control decisions. This type of system allows an RDAP server to make access control
decisions based on the nature of a query and the identity, authentication, and authorization
information that is received from the identity provider. This document describes a federated
authentication system for RDAP based on OpenID Connect

 that meets these needs.

[OIDC]

2.  Conventions Used in This Document

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

All of the HTTP requests described in this document that are sent from an RDAP client to an
RDAP server use the HTTP GET method as specified in

[RFC9110]
.

Long lines in examples are wrapped using "The Single Backslash Strategy" described in
[RFC8792]
.

3.  Federated Authentication for RDAP

RDAP itself does not include built-in security services. Instead, RDAP relies on features that are
available in other protocol layers to provide needed security services including access control,
authentication, authorization, availability, data confidentiality, data integrity, and identification.
A description of each of these security services can be found in "Internet Security Glossary,
Version 2"
provides services for authentication, authorization, and identification, allowing a server
operator to make access control decisions.
considerations for RDAP access control, authentication, and authorization.

. This document focuses on a federated authentication system for RDAP that

Section 3 of [RFC7481]

 describes general

[RFC4949]

The conventional client-server authentication model requires clients to maintain distinct
credentials for every RDAP server. This situation can become unwieldy as the number of RDAP
servers increases. Federated authentication mechanisms allow clients to use one credential to
access multiple RDAP servers and reduce client credential management complexity.

3.1.  RDAP and OpenID Connect

OpenID Connect 1.0
system that allows users to access multiple web resources with one identifier instead of having to
create multiple server-specific identifiers. Users acquire identifiers from OpenID Providers (OPs).

 is a decentralized, Single Sign-On (SSO) federated authentication

[OIDCC]

Hollenbeck

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9560

OIDC for RDAP

April 2024

Relying Parties (RPs) are applications (such as RDAP) that outsource their user authentication
function to an OP. OpenID Connect is built on top of the authorization framework provided by
the OAuth 2.0 protocol

[RFC6749]
.

The OAuth authorization framework describes a method for users to access protected web
resources without having to hand out their credentials. Instead, clients are issued access tokens
by OPs with the permission of the resource owners. Using OpenID Connect and OAuth, multiple
RDAP servers can form a federation, and clients can access any server in the federation by
providing one credential registered with any OP in that federation. The OAuth authorization
framework is designed for use with HTTP and thus can be used with RDAP.

3.1.1.  Terminology

This document uses the following terminology.

Terms defined by

[RFC7480]
:

•

client

•

server

Terms defined by

[RFC6749]
:

•

access token

•

authorization code

•

authorization endpoint

•

authorization grant

•

client authentication

•

client identifier

•

protected resource

•

refresh token

•

resource owner

•

resource server

•

token endpoint

Terms defined by

[RFC7519]
:

•

claim name

•

claim value

•

JSON Web Token (JWT)

Terms defined by

[OIDCC]
:

•

ID Token

•

UserInfo Endpoint

Hollenbeck

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9560

OIDC for RDAP

April 2024

Term defined by

[RFC9068]
:

•

JWT access token

Additional terms from Section 1.2 of the OpenID Connect Core specification are incorporated by
reference.

This document uses the terms "remote" and "default" to describe the relationship between an
RDAP server and the OPs that it interacts with. A "remote" OP is one that is identified by the
RDAP client by providing either an Issuer Identifier or an end-user identifier in a login request.
Whether an Issuer Identifier or end-user identifier can be provided in the login request for the
purposes of selecting an OP can be determined by retrieving the RDAP server's OIDC
configuration details (see Section 4.1). A "default" OP is one that the RDAP server will use when
the RDAP client does not provide an Issuer Identifier or an end-user identifier in the login
request.

This document uses the term "session" to describe a set of interactions between an RDAP client
and an RDAP server during a given period of time. For session-oriented clients (see Section 3.1.2),
the RDAP session is a typical HTTP session starting with a farv1_session/login request and ending
with either a farv1_session/logout request (see Section 5 for a description of both path segments)
or a timeout. For token-oriented clients (see Sections 3.1.2 and 6), the RDAP session corresponds
to the lifespan of an authorization obtained from an OP and the corresponding access token,
including any refreshed access tokens.

3.1.2.  Client Considerations

Clients that delegate OIDC authentication to an RDAP server as part of session-oriented
interactions and can accept and process HTTP cookies
known as "session-oriented" clients. This type of RDAP client performs the role of a user agent
[RFC9110]
. An RDAP server performs the role of an OpenID Connect Core Relying Party (RP). A
web browser used to send queries directly to an RDAP server is an example of a session-oriented
client. Specifications for this type of client can be found in Section 5.

 to maintain the session are

[RFC6265]

[RFC6749]

 to an RDAP server to authorize RDAP queries, are

Clients that perform OIDC authentication directly, taking the role of an RP in interactions with an
OP and sending access tokens
known as "token-oriented" clients. An RDAP server performs resource server
functions to verify the tokens received from the client and RP functions to retrieve information
from the OP as necessary to make access control decisions. A web browser running JavaScript
received from a web service that sends queries to an RDAP server directly or through its back-
end web service is an example of a token-oriented client. Specifications for this type of client can
be found in Section 6.

[RFC6749]

MAY

Clients
 operate as either session-oriented or token-oriented clients, but they
consistently by not mixing token-oriented and session-oriented requests while interacting with
an OP. Servers
to support only one type of client as required by local policy or operating conditions. A server

 support both types of client to maximize interoperability but

SHOULD

 do so

MUST

MAY

 choose

Hollenbeck

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9560

OIDC for RDAP

April 2024

that does not support a particular client type will not support the protocol features (the data
structures, path segments, parameters, and interactions) specified for that client type. Server
signaling of supported client types is described in Section 4.1.

3.1.3.  Overview

At a high level, RDAP authentication of a session-oriented client using OpenID Connect requires
completion of the following steps:

1.

An RDAP client sends an RDAP "help" query to an RDAP server to determine the types and
capabilities of the OPs that are used by the RDAP server. This information is returned in the
"rdapConformance" section of the response. A value of "farv1" indicates support for the
extension described in this specification. If one or more remote OPs are supported, the RDAP
client
discover the capabilities of the RDAP server and optionally obtain the set of supported OPs
unless that information is available from a trusted out-of-band source and has already been
processed.

 evaluate the additional information described in Section 4.1 in order to

SHOULD

2.

An RDAP client sends an RDAP "login" request to an RDAP server as described in Section 5.2.

3.

The RDAP server prepares an Authentication Request containing the desired request
parameters.

4.

The RDAP server sends an Authentication Request to an OP authorization endpoint and
redirects the RDAP client to the OP using an HTTP redirect.

5.

The OP authenticates the end user.

6.

The OP obtains end-user consent and authorization.

7.

The OP sends the RDAP client back to the RDAP server with an authorization code using an
HTTP redirect.

8.

The RDAP server requests tokens using the authorization code at the OP's token endpoint.

9.

The RDAP server receives a response that contains an ID Token and access token in the
response body.

10.

The RDAP server validates the tokens as described in
associated with the end user's identity from the OP's UserInfo Endpoint.

[OIDCC]

 and retrieves the claims

Hollenbeck

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9560

OIDC for RDAP

April 2024

The steps above can be described in a sequence diagram:

End          OpenID         RDAP                 RDAP
User        Provider       Client               Server
  |             |             |                    |
  |             |             |-----Help Query---->|
  |             |             |                    |
  |             |             |<---Help Response---|
  |             |             |                    |
  |-------Login Request------>|                    |
  |             |             |                    |
  |             |             |---Login Request--->|
  |             |             |                    |
  |             |<-----Authentication Request------|
  |             |             |                    |
  | Credential--|             |                    |
  |<--Request   |             |                    |
  |             |             |                    |
  |--Credential |             |                    |
  |   Response->|             |                    |
  |             |             |                    |
  |             |-----Authentication Response----->|
  |             |             |                    |
  |             |<----------Token Request----------|
  |             |             |                    |
  |             |-----------Token Response-------->|
  |             |             |                    |
  |             |<----------Claim Request----------|
  |             |             |                    |
  |             |-----------Claim Response-------->|
  |             |             |                    |
  |             |             |<--Login Response---|
  |             |             |                    |
  |<------Login Response------|                    |
  |             |             |                    |
  |----------RDAP Query------>|                    |
  |             |             |                    |
  |             |             |-----RDAP Query---->|
  |             |             |                    |
  |             |             |<---RDAP Response---|
  |             |             |                    |
  |<------RDAP Response-------|                    |

Figure 1

The RDAP server can then make identification, authorization, and access control decisions based
on end-user identity information and local policies. Note that OpenID Connect describes different
process flows for other types of clients, such as script-based or command-line clients.

Hollenbeck

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9560

OIDC for RDAP

April 2024

RDAP authentication of a token-oriented client using OpenID Connect requires completion of the
following steps:

1.

An RDAP client sends an RDAP "help" query to an RDAP server to determine the type and
capabilities of the OPs that are used by the RDAP server. This information is returned in the
"rdapConformance" section of the response. A value of "farv1" indicates support for the
extension described in this specification. If one or more remote OPs are supported, the RDAP
client
discover the capabilities of the RDAP server and optionally obtain the set of supported OPs.
Support for token-oriented clients requires a default OP.

 evaluate the additional information described in Section 4.1 in order to

SHOULD

2.

The RDAP client determines the end user's OP and confirms that it's supported by the RDAP
server.

3.

The RDAP client sends an Authentication Request to the OP's authorization endpoint.

4.

The OP authenticates the end user.

5.

The OP obtains end-user consent or authorization.

6.

The OP returns an authorization code to the RDAP client.

7.

The RDAP client requests tokens using the authorization code at the OP's token endpoint.

8.

The RDAP client receives a response that contains an ID Token and an access token in the
response body.

9.

The RDAP client monitors the token validity period and either refreshes the token or
requests new tokens as necessary.

10.

The RDAP client sends queries that require user identification, authentication, and
authorization to an RDAP server that include an access token in an HTTP "authorization"
header using the "bearer" authentication scheme described in

[RFC6750]
.

11.

The RDAP server validates the access token and retrieves the claims associated with the end
user's identity from the OP's UserInfo Endpoint.

12.

The RDAP server determines the end user's authorization level and processes the query in
accordance with server policies.

Hollenbeck

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9560

OIDC for RDAP

April 2024

The steps above can be described in a sequence diagram:

End          OpenID         RDAP                 RDAP
User        Provider       Client               Server
  |             |             |                    |
  |             |             |-----Help Query---->|
  |             |             |                    |
  |             |             |<----Help Response--|
  |             |             |                    |
  |-------Login Request------>|                    |
  |             |             |                    |
  |             |<-Authentication                  |
  |             |   Request---|                    |
  |             |             |                    |
  |<-Credential |             |                    |
  |   Request---|             |                    |
  |             |             |                    |
  |--Credential |             |                    |
  |   Response->|             |                    |
  |             |             |                    |
  |             |--Authentication                  |
  |             | Response--->|                    |
  |             |             |                    |
  |             |<-Token      |                    |
  |             |  Request----|                    |
  |             |             |                    |
  |             |--Token      |                    |
  |             |  Response-->|                    |
  |             |             |                    |
  |<------Login Response------|                    |
  |             |             |                    |
  |-----RDAP Query----------->|                    |
  |             |             |                    |
  |             |             |----RDAP Query----->|
  |             |             |                    |
  |             |<------------Claim                |
  |             |            Request---------------|
  |             |             |                    |
  |             |-------------Claim                |
  |             |            Response------------->|
  |             |             |                    |
  |             |             |<---RDAP Response---|
  |             |             |                    |
  |<----RDAP Response---------|                    |

Figure 2

3.1.4.  RDAP Authentication and Authorization Steps

MAY

 present an identifier (an OpenID) issued by an OP to use OpenID Connect with

End users
RDAP. If the RDAP server supports a default OP or if provider discovery is not supported, the end-
user identifier
Section 3.1.5 to provide additional information needed for RDAP end-user authorization; in the
absence of these claims, clients and servers

 make authorization and access control decisions

 include support for the claims described in

 be omitted. An OP

SHOULD

MAY

MAY

Hollenbeck

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9560

OIDC for RDAP

April 2024

as appropriate given any other information returned from the OP. OpenID Connect requires RPs
to register with OPs to use OpenID Connect services for an end user. The registration process is
often completed using out-of-band methods, but it is also possible to use the automated method
described by the OpenID Connect Dynamic Client Registration protocol
involved can use any method that is mutually acceptable.

. The parties

[OIDCR]

3.1.4.1.  Provider Discovery

An RDAP server acting as an RP needs to be able to map an end user's identifier to an OP. This
can be accomplished using the
protocol is not widely implemented. Out-of-band methods are also possible and can be more
dependable. For example, an RP can support a limited number of OPs and maintain internal
associations of those identifiers with the OPs that issued them.

 OpenID Connect Discovery protocol

OPTIONAL

[OIDCD]

, but that

SHOULD

 support explicit specification of a remote OP by the RDAP client

Alternatively, if mapping an end user's identifier is not possible, or not supported by the RDAP
server, the RDAP server
in the form of a query parameter as described in Section 5.2.2 unless the remote OP has been
identified using an out-of-band mechanism. An RDAP server
 provide information about its
capabilities and supported OPs in the "help" query response in the "farv1_openidcConfiguration"
 support at least one
data structure described in Section 4.1. An RDAP server acting as an RP
of these methods of OP discovery.

MUST

MUST

3.1.4.2.  Authentication Request

MUST

Once the OP is known, an RP
described in Section 3 of
hybrid) will depend on the Authentication Request response_type set by the RP. The remainder of
the processing steps described here assume that the authorization code flow is being used by
setting "response_type=code" in the Authentication Request.

 form an Authentication Request and send it to the OP as
. The authentication path followed (authorization, implicit, or

[OIDCC]

[OIDCC]

The benefits of using the authorization code flow for authenticating a human user are described
. The Implicit Flow is more commonly used by clients implemented in a
in Section 3.1 of
web browser using a scripting language; it is described in Section 3.2 of
this writing, the Implicit Flow is considered insecure and efforts are being made to deprecate the
flow. The Hybrid Flow (described in Section 3.3 of
authorization code and Implicit Flows by returning some tokens from the authorization endpoint
and others from the token endpoint.

) combines elements of the

. At the time of

[OIDCC]

[OIDCC]

[OIDCC]

An Authentication Request can contain several parameters.
 that the RP
. Apart from these parameters, it is
in Section 3.1.2.1 of
include the optional "login_hint" parameter in the request, with the value being that of the
"farv1_id" query parameter of the end user's RDAP "login" request, if provided. Passing the
"login_hint" parameter allows a client to pre-fill login form information, so logging in can be
more convenient for users. Other parameters

RECOMMENDED

 be included.

REQUIRED

MAY

 parameters are specified

Hollenbeck

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9560

OIDC for RDAP

April 2024

The OP receives the Authentication Request and attempts to validate it as described in Section
3.1.2.2 of
described in Section 3.1.2.3 of
valid or if any error is encountered.

. If the request is valid, the OP attempts to authenticate the end user as

. The OP returns an error response if the request is not

[OIDCC]

[OIDCC]

3.1.4.3.  End User Authorization

After the end user is authenticated, the OP
authorization information to the RDAP server acting as an RP. This process is described in Section
3.1.2.4 of

 obtain consent from the end user to release

[OIDCC]
.

MUST

3.1.4.4.  Authorization Response and Validation

After obtaining an authorization result, the OP will send a response to the RP that provides the
result of the authorization process using an authorization code. The RP
MUST
[OIDCC]
.
response. This process is described in Sections 3.1.2.5 - 3.1.2.7 of

 validate the

3.1.4.5.  Token Processing

The RP sends a token request using the authorization grant to a token endpoint to obtain a token
response containing an access token, ID Token, and an
validate the token response. This process is described in Section 3.1.3.5

 refresh token. The RP

OPTIONAL

[OIDCC]
.

MUST

3.1.4.6.  Delivery of User Information

The set of claims can be retrieved by sending a request to a UserInfo Endpoint using the access
token. The claims are returned in the ID Token. The process of retrieving claims from a UserInfo
Endpoint is described in Section 5.3 of

[OIDCC]
.

OpenID Connect specifies a set of standard claims in Section 5.1 of
RDAP are described in Section 3.1.5.

[OIDCC]

. Additional claims for

3.1.5.  Specialized Claims and Authorization Scope for RDAP

[OIDCC]

OpenID Connect claims are pieces of information used to make assertions about an entity.
Section 5 of
 notes that
 describes a set of standard claims. Section 5.1.2 of
additional claims
are specific to RDAP are associated with an OAuth scope request parameter value (see
of [RFC6749]

 be used, and it describes a method to create them. The set of claims that

) of "rdap".

[OIDCC]

MAY

Section 3.3

3.1.5.1.  Stated Purposes

Communities of RDAP users and operators may wish to make and validate claims about a user's
"need to know" when it comes to requesting access to a protected resource. For example, a law
enforcement agent or a trademark attorney may wish to be able to assert that they have a legal
right to access a protected resource, and a server operator may need to be able to receive and
validate that claim. These needs can be met by defining and using an additional
"rdap_allowed_purposes" claim.

Hollenbeck

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9560

OIDC for RDAP

April 2024

The "rdap_allowed_purposes" claim identifies the purposes for which access to a protected
resource can be requested by an end user. Use of the "rdap_allowed_purposes" claim is
; processing of this claim is subject to server acceptance of the purposes, the trust level
OPTIONAL
assigned to this claim by the server, and successful authentication of the end user. Unrecognized
purpose values
unrecognized purpose value was not present at all. See Section 9.3 for a description of the IANA
considerations associated with this claim.

 be ignored, and the associated query

 be processed as if the

MUST

MUST

The "rdap_allowed_purposes" claim is represented as an array of case-sensitive StringOrURI
values as specified in

Section 2 of [RFC7519]

. An example:

"rdap_allowed_purposes": ["domainNameControl","dnsTransparency"]

Purpose values are assigned to an end user's credential by an identity provider. Identity
providers
that are authorized to use them.

 ensure that appropriate purpose values are only assigned to end user identities

MUST

3.1.5.2.  Do Not Track

Communities of RDAP users and operators may wish to make and validate claims about a user's
wish to not have their queries logged, tracked, or recorded. For example, a law enforcement
agent may wish to assert that their queries are part of a criminal investigation and should not be
tracked due to a risk of query exposure compromising the investigation, and a server operator
may need to be able to receive and validate that claim. These needs can be met by defining and
using an additional "do not track" claim.

The "do not track" ("rdap_dnt_allowed") claim can be used to identify an end user that is
authorized to perform queries without the end user's association with those queries being
logged, tracked, or recorded by the server. Client use of the "rdap_dnt_allowed" claim is
OPTIONAL
end user's identity if the end user is successfully identified and authorized, if the
"rdap_dnt_allowed" claim is present, if the value of the claim is "true", and if accepting the claim
complies with local regulations regarding logging and tracking.

 log, track, or record any association of the query and the

. Server operators

MUST NOT

The "rdap_dnt_allowed" value is represented as a JSON boolean literal. An example:

rdap_dnt_allowed: true

No special query tracking processing is required if this claim is not present or if the value of the
claim is "false". Use of this claim
privileges in accordance with service policies and regulations. Specification of these policies and
regulations is beyond the scope of this document.

 be limited to end users who are granted "do not track"

MUST

Hollenbeck

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9560

OIDC for RDAP

April 2024

4.  Common Protocol Features

As described in Section 3.1.4.1, an RDAP server
and supported OPs in a "help" query response. This specification describes a new
"farv1_openidcConfiguration" data structure that describes the OpenID Connect configuration
and related extension features supported by the RDAP server. This data structure is returned to
all client types.

 provide information about its capabilities

MUST

4.1.  OpenID Connect Configuration

The "farv1_openidcConfiguration" data structure is an object with the following members:

"sessionClientSupported":

(
REQUIRED

) a boolean value that describes RDAP server support for

session-oriented clients (see Section 3.1.2).

"tokenClientSupported":

(
REQUIRED

) a boolean value that describes RDAP server support for

token-oriented clients (see Section 3.1.2).

"dntSupported":

(
REQUIRED

) a boolean value that describes RDAP server support for the

"farv1_dnt" query parameter (see Section 4.2.2).

"providerDiscoverySupported":

) a boolean value that describes RDAP server
support for discovery of providers of end-user identifiers. The default value is "true".

(
OPTIONAL

"issuerIdentifierSupported":

(
OPTIONAL

) a boolean value that describes RDAP server support

for explicit client specification of an Issuer Identifier. The default value is "true".

"implicitTokenRefreshSupported":

(
OPTIONAL

) a boolean value that describes RDAP server

support for implicit token refresh. The default value is "false".

"openidcProviders":

(
OPTIONAL

) a list of objects with the following members that describes the

set of OPs that are supported by the RDAP server. This data is
issuerIdentifierSupported is "true":

RECOMMENDED

 if the value of

"iss":

(
REQUIRED

) a URI value that represents the Issuer Identifier of the OP as per the

OpenID Connect Core specification

[OIDCC]

.

"name":

(
REQUIRED

) a string value representing the human-friendly name of the OP.

"default":

(
OPTIONAL

) a boolean value that describes RDAP server support for an

OPTIONAL

default OP that will be used when a client omits the "farv1_id" and "farv1_iss" query
parameters from a "farv1_session/login" request. Only one member of this set can be
identified as the default OP by setting a value of "true". The default value is "false".

"additionalAuthorizationQueryParams":

(
OPTIONAL
represents an OAuth authorization request parameter name-value pair supported by the
OP. The name represents an OAuth query parameter, and the value is the query parameter

) an object where each member

Hollenbeck

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9560

OIDC for RDAP

April 2024

value. A token-oriented RDAP client
corresponding values to the Authentication Request URL when requesting authorization
by a specified OP through a proxy OP.

 add these query parameters and their

SHOULD

An RDAP server
value to "true". Both values

MUST

 set either the "sessionClientSupported" or the "tokenClientSupported"

MAY

 be set to "true" if an RDAP server supports both types of clients.

The "providerDiscoverySupported" value has a direct impact on the use of the "farv1_id" query
parameter described in Sections 3.1.4.2 and 5.2.1. The value of "providerDiscoverySupported"
 be "true" for an RDAP server to properly accept and process "farv1_id" query parameters.
MUST
Similarly, the "issuerIdentifierSupported" value has a direct impact on the use of the "farv1_iss"
query parameter described in Section 5.2.2. The value of "issuerIdentifierSupported"
"true" for an RDAP server to properly accept and process "farv1_iss" query parameters.

MUST

 be

An example of a "farv1_openidcConfiguration" data structure:

"farv1_openidcConfiguration": {
  "sessionClientSupported": true,
  "tokenClientSupported": true,
  "dntSupported": false,
  "providerDiscoverySupported": true,
  "issuerIdentifierSupported": true,
  "openidcProviders":
    [
      {
        "iss": "https://idp.example.com",
        "name": "Example IDP"
      },
      {
        "iss": "https://accounts.example.net",
        "name": "Login with EXAMPLE",
        "additionalAuthorizationQueryParams": {
          "kc_idp_hint": "examplePublicIDP"
        }
      },
      {
        "iss": "https://auth.nic.example/auth/realms/rdap",
        "name": "Default OP for the Example RDAP server",
        "default": true
      }
    ]
}

Figure 3

4.2.  RDAP Query Parameters

This specification describes two
request access to information associated with protected resources:

OPTIONAL

 query parameters for use with RDAP queries that

Hollenbeck

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9560

OIDC for RDAP

April 2024

"farv1_qp":

A query parameter to identify the purpose of the query.

"farv1_dnt":

A query parameter to request that the server not log or otherwise record

information about the identity associated with a query.

One or both parameters
Section "application/x-www-form-urlencoded" of

 be added to an RDAP request URI using the syntax described in
[HTMLURL]
.

MAY

4.2.1.  RDAP Query Purpose

This query is represented as a "key=value" pair using a key value of "farv1_qp" and a value
component that contains a single query purpose string from the set of allowed purposes
associated with the end user's identity (see Section 3.1.5.1). If present, the server
SHOULD
compare the value of the parameter to the "rdap_allowed_purposes" claim values associated with
the end user's identity and ensure that the requested purpose is present in the set of allowed
purposes. The RDAP server
"rdap_allowed_purposes" claim values if they are inconsistent with local server policy. The
server
purpose. If the "farv1_qp" parameter is not present, the server
an access control decision based on any other information known to the server about the end
user and the information they are requesting. For example, a server
performed by an unidentified or unauthenticated user and return either an error or an
appropriate subset of the available data. An example domain query using the "farv1_qp" query
parameter:

 return an HTTP 403 (Forbidden) response if the requested purpose is not an allowed
 process the query and make

 choose to ignore both the requested purpose and the

 treat the request as one

MUST

MUST

MAY

MAY

https://example.com/rdap/domain/example.com?farv1_qp=legalActions

Figure 4

4.2.2.  RDAP Do Not Track

This query is represented as a "key=value" pair using a key value of "farv1_dnt" and a value
component that contains a single boolean value. A value of "true" indicates that the end user is
requesting that their query is not tracked or logged in accordance with server policy. A value of
"false" indicates that the end user is accepting that their query can be tracked or logged in
accordance with server policy. The server
MUST
server is unable to perform the action requested by this query parameter. An example domain
query using the "farv1_dnt" query parameter:

 return an HTTP 403 (Forbidden) response if the

https://example.com/rdap/domain/example.com?farv1_dnt=true

Figure 5

Hollenbeck

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9560

OIDC for RDAP

April 2024

4.2.3.  Parameter Processing

MUST

MUST

 be ignored. An RDAP server that processes an
 determine if the end-user identification information is associated with

Unrecognized query parameters
authenticated query
an OP that is recognized and supported by the server. RDAP servers
 reject queries that
include identification information that is not associated with a supported OP by returning an
HTTP 400 (Bad Request) response. An RDAP server that receives a query containing identification
information associated with a recognized OP
MUST
the user with the OP, process the query, and return an RDAP response that is appropriate for the
end user's level of authorization and access.

 perform the steps required to authenticate

MUST

5.  Protocol Features for Session-Oriented Clients

This specification adds the following features to RDAP that are commonly used by session-
oriented clients:

1.

Data structures to return information that describes an established session and the
information needed to establish a session for a UI-constrained device.

2.

A query parameter to request authentication for a specific end-user identity.

3.

A query parameter to support authentication for a specific end-user identity on a device with
a constrained user interface.

4.

A query parameter to identify the purpose of the query.

5.

A query parameter to request that the server not log or otherwise record information about
the identity associated with a query.

6.

Path segments to start, stop, refresh, and determine the status of an authenticated session for
a specific end-user identity.

5.1.  Data Structures

This specification describes two new data structures that are used to return information to a
session-oriented client:

"farv1_session":
session.

A data structure that contains information that describes an established

"farv1_deviceInfo":

A data structure that contains information that describes an active attempt

to establish a session on a UI-constrained device.

5.1.1.  Session

The "farv1_session" data structure is an object that contains the following members:

"userID":

an

OPTIONAL

 string value that represents the end-user identifier associated with the

session.

Hollenbeck

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9560

OIDC for RDAP

April 2024

"iss":

an

OPTIONAL
with the session.

 URI value that represents the issuer of the end-user identifier associated

"userClaims":

an

OPTIONAL

 object that contains the set of claims associated with the end user's
identity based on the user information provided by the OP as described in Section 3.1.4.6 and
processed by the RDAP server in the authentication and authorization process. The set of
possible values is determined by OP policy and RDAP server policy.

"sessionInfo":

an

OPTIONAL

 object that contains two members:

"tokenExpiration":

an integer value that represents the number of seconds that remain in

the lifetime of the access token.

"tokenRefresh":
described in

a boolean value that indicates if the OP supports refresh tokens. As

[RFC6749]

, support for refresh tokens is

OPTIONAL

.

Note that all of the members of the "farv1_session" data structure are
for instructions describing when to return the minimum set of members.

OPTIONAL

. See Section 5.2.3

An example of a "farv1_session" data structure:

  "farv1_session": {
    "userID": "user.idp.example",
    "iss": "https://idp.example.com",
    "userClaims": {
      "sub": "103892603076825016132",
      "name": "User Person",
      "given_name": "User",
      "family_name": "Person",
      "picture": "https://lh3.example.com/a-/AOh14=s96-c",
      "email": "user@example.com",
      "email_verified": true,
      "locale": "en",
      "rdap_allowed_purposes": [
        "domainNameControl",
        "personalDataProtection"
      ],
      "rdap_dnt_allowed": false
    },
    "sessionInfo": {
      "tokenExpiration": 3599,
      "tokenRefresh": true
    }
  }

Figure 6

5.1.2.  Device Info

The flow described in Section 3.1.4 requires an end user to interact with a server using a user
interface that can process HTTP. This will not work well in situations where the client is
automated or an end user is using a command-line user interface such as curl or wget. This

Hollenbeck

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9560

OIDC for RDAP

April 2024

limitation can be addressed using a web browser on a second device. The information that needs
to be entered using the web browser is contained in the "farv1_deviceInfo" data structure, an
object that contains members as described in

Section 3.2 of [RFC8628]
.

An example of a "farv1_deviceInfo" data structure:

  "farv1_deviceInfo": {
    "device_code": "AH-1ng2ezu",
    "user_code": "NJJQ-GJFC",
    "verification_uri": "https://www.example.com/device",
    "verification_uri_complete":
       "https://www.example.com/device?user_code=NJJQ-GJFC",
    "expires_in": 1800,
    "interval": 5
  }

Figure 7

5.2.  Client Login

Client authentication is requested by sending a "farv1_session/login" request to an RDAP server.
If the RDAP server supports only remote OPs, the "farv1_session/login" request
 include at
least one end-user identifier or OP Issuer Identifier.

MUST

[RFC6265]
MUST

The server sets an HTTP cookie as described in
is received and processed successfully. The client
the server in any RDAP request within the scope of that session, including "farv1_session/
refresh", "farv1_session/status", and "farv1_session/logout". A "farv1_session/login" followed by
another "farv1_session/login" that does not include an HTTP cookie
 start a new session on
the server that includes a new cookie. A server that receives a "farv1_session/login" followed by
another "farv1_session/login" that includes an HTTP cookie
 return an HTTP 409 (Conflict)
response.

 when the "farv1_session/login" request
 include the session cookie received from

MUST

MUST

To help reduce the risk of resource starvation, a server
and refuse to start a new session by returning an HTTP 409 (Conflict) response if a server-side
maximum number of concurrent sessions per user exists and the client exceeds that limit.
Additionally, an active session
 be removed by the server due to timeout expiration or
MAY
because a maximum session lifetime has been exceeded. Clients
 proactively monitor the
"tokenExpiration" value associated with an active session and refresh the session as appropriate
to provide a positive user experience.

 reject a "farv1_session/login" request

SHOULD

MAY

5.2.1.  End-User Identifier

The end-user identifier is delivered using one of two methods: by adding a query component to
an RDAP request URI using the syntax described in Section "application/x-www-form-
urlencoded" of
. Clients can use either of these methods to
authentication scheme as described in
deliver the end-user identifier to a server that supports remote OPs and provider discovery.

 or by including an HTTP "authorization" request header for the Basic

[HTMLURL]

[RFC7617]

Hollenbeck

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9560

OIDC for RDAP

April 2024

Servers that support remote OPs and provider discovery
server supports a default OP or if provider discovery is not supported, the end-user identifier
MAY

 accept both methods. If the RDAP

 be omitted.

MUST

The query parameter used to deliver the end-user identifier is represented as an
"key=value" pair using a key value of "farv1_id" and a value component that contains the client
identifier issued by an OP. An example for client identifier "user.idp.example":

OPTIONAL

========== NOTE: '\' line wrapping per RFC 8792 ===========
https://example.com/rdap/farv1_session/\
login?farv1_id=user.idp.example

Figure 8

The authorization header for the Basic authentication scheme contains a base64-encoded
representation of the client identifier issued by an OP. No password is provided. An example for
client identifier "user.idp.example":

https://example.com/rdap/farv1_session/login
Authorization: Basic dXNlci5pZHAuZXhhbXBsZQ==

Figure 9

An example for use with a default OP:

https://example.com/rdap/farv1_session/login

Figure 10

5.2.2.  OP Issuer Identifier

The OP's Issuer Identifier is delivered by adding a query component to an RDAP request URI
[HTMLURL]
using the syntax described in Section "application/x-www-form-urlencoded" of
the RDAP server supports a default OP, the Issuer Identifier

 be omitted.

MAY

. If

The query parameter used to deliver the OP's Issuer Identifier is represented as an
"key=value" pair using a key value of "farv1_iss" and a value component that contains the Issuer
Identifier associated with an OP. An RDAP server
MAY
the "farv1_openidcConfiguration" data structure and
Identifiers only from specific clients. An example for Issuer Identifier "https://idp.example.com":

 accept Issuer Identifiers not specified in
 also decide to accept specific Issuer
MAY

OPTIONAL

Hollenbeck

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9560

OIDC for RDAP

April 2024

========== NOTE: '\' line wrapping per RFC 8792 ===========
https://example.com/rdap/farv1_session/\
login?farv1_iss=https://idp.example.com

Figure 11

5.2.3.  Login Response

MAY

MUST

 be a valid RDAP response per

 include an indication of the requested operation's success or failure in the

The response to this request
 include
any members that relate to a specific RDAP object type (e.g., "events" or "status"). In addition, the
response
"notices" data structure. If successful, the response
that includes a "sessionInfo" object and an
response
"sessionInfo" objects.

 include a "farv1_session" data structure that omits the "userClaims" and

 "userClaims" object. If unsuccessful, the

 include a "farv1_session" data structure

[RFC9083] MUST NOT
. It

OPTIONAL

MUST

MUST

Hollenbeck

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9560

OIDC for RDAP

April 2024

An example of a successful "farv1_session/login" response:

    {
      "rdapConformance": [
        "farv1"
      ],
      "lang": "en-US",
      "notices": [
        {
          "title": "Login Result",
          "description": [
            "Login succeeded"
          ]
        }
      ],
      "farv1_session": {
        "userID": "user.idp.example",
        "iss": "https://idp.example.com",
        "userClaims": {
          "sub": "103892603076825016132",
          "name": "User Person",
          "given_name": "User",
          "family_name": "Person",
          "picture": "https://lh3.example.com/a-/AOh14=s96-c",
          "email": "user@example.com",
          "email_verified": true,
          "locale": "en",
          "rdap_allowed_purposes": [
            "domainNameControl",
            "personalDataProtection"
          ],
          "rdap_dnt_allowed": false
        },
        "sessionInfo": {
          "tokenExpiration": 3599,
          "tokenRefresh": true
        }
      }
    }

Figure 12

Hollenbeck

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9560

OIDC for RDAP

April 2024

An example of a failed "farv1_session/login" response:

    {
      "rdapConformance": [
        "farv1"
      ],
      "lang": "en-US",
      "notices": [
        {
          "title": "Login Result",
          "description": [
            "Login failed"
          ]
        }
      ],
      "farv1_session": {
        "userID": "user.idp.example",
        "iss": "https://idp.example.com"
      }
    }

Figure 13

5.2.4.  Clients with Limited User Interfaces

"OAuth 2.0 Device Authorization Grant"
authorization from devices that have an Internet connection but lack a suitable browser for a
more conventional OAuth flow. This method requires an end user to use a second device (such as
a smartphone) that has access to a web browser for entry of a code sequence that is presented on
the UI-constrained device.

 method to request user

 provides an

[RFC8628]

OPTIONAL

5.2.4.1.  UI-Constrained Client Login

Client authentication is requested by sending a "farv1_session/device" request to an RDAP server.
If the RDAP server supports only remote OPs, the "farv1_session/device" request
either an end-user identifier as described in Section 5.2.1 or an OP Issuer Identifier as described
in Section 5.2.2.

 include

MUST

An example using wget for client identifier "user.idp.example":

========== NOTE: '\' line wrapping per RFC 8792 ===========
   wget -qO- "https://example.com/rdap/farv1_session/device\
   ?farv1_id=user.idp.example"

Figure 14

The authorization header for the Basic authentication scheme contains a base64-encoded
representation of the client identifier issued by an OP. No password is provided.

Hollenbeck

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9560

OIDC for RDAP

April 2024

An example using curl and an authorization header:

========== NOTE: '\' line wrapping per RFC 8792 ===========
   curl -H "Authorization: Basic dXNlci5pZHAuZXhhbXBsZQ=="\
   "https://example.com/rdap/farv1_session/device"

Figure 15

The response to this request
 include
any members that relate to a specific RDAP object type (e.g., "events" or "status"). In addition, the
response
"notices" data structure and, if successful, a "farv1_deviceInfo" data structure.

 include an indication of the requested operation's success or failure in the

 be a valid RDAP response per

[RFC9083] MUST NOT
. It

MUST

MAY

An example of a "farv1_session/device" response:

  {
    "rdapConformance": [
      "farv1"
    ],
    "lang": "en-US",
    "notices": [
      {
        "title": "Device Login Result",
        "description": [
          "Login succeeded"
        ]
      }
    ],
    "farv1_deviceInfo": {
      "device_code": "AH-1ng2ezu",
      "user_code": "NJJQ-GJFC",
      "verification_uri": "https://www.example.com/device",
      "verification_uri_complete":
              "https://www.example.com/device?user_code=NJJQ-GJFC",
      "expires_in": 1800,
          "interval": 5
    }
  }

Figure 16

5.2.4.2.  UI-Constrained Client Login Polling

After successful processing of the "farv1_session/device" request, the client
"farv1_session/devicepoll" request to the RDAP server to continue the login process. This request
initiates the polling function described in
the OP as described in
, allowing the RDAP server to wait for the end user
to enter the information returned from the "farv1_session/device" request using the interface on
their second device. After the end user has completed that process, or if the process fails or times

 on the RDAP server. The RDAP server polls

Section 3.4 of [RFC8628]

[RFC8628]

 send a

MUST

Hollenbeck

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9560

OIDC for RDAP

April 2024

out, the OP will respond to the polling requests with an indication of success or failure. If the
RDAP server supports only remote OPs, the "farv1_session/devicepoll" request
 include
either an end-user identifier as described in Section 5.2.1 or an OP Issuer Identifier as described
in Section 5.2.2.

MUST

The "farv1_session/devicepoll" request
query parameter is represented as an
and a value component that contains the value of the device_code that was returned in the
response to the "farv1_session/device" request.

 also include a "farv1_dc" query parameter. The

 "key=value" pair using a key value of "farv1_dc"

OPTIONAL

MUST

An example using wget:

========== NOTE: '\' line wrapping per RFC 8792 ===========
   wget -qO- --keep-session-cookies --save-cookies cookie.txt\
   "https://example.com/rdap/farv1_session/devicepoll\
   ?farv1_id=user.idp.example&farv1_dc=AH-1ng2ezu"

Figure 17

An example using curl:

========== NOTE: '\' line wrapping per RFC 8792 ===========
   curl -c cookie.txt "https://example.com/rdap/farv1_session/\
   devicepoll?farv1_id=user.idp.example&farv1_dc=AH-1ng2ezu"

Figure 18

The response to this request
 use the response structures described in Section 5.2. RDAP
query processing can continue normally on the UI-constrained device once the device polling
process has been completed successfully.

MUST

5.3.  Session Status

MAY

Clients
using a "farv1_session/status" path segment. An example "farv1_session/status" request:

 send a query to an RDAP server to determine the status of an existing login session

https://example.com/rdap/farv1_session/status

Figure 19

The response to this request
 include
any members that relate to a specific RDAP object type (e.g., "events" or "status"). In addition, the
response
"notices" data structure. If the operation is successful and an active session exists, the response

 include an indication of the requested operation's success or failure in the

 be a valid RDAP response per

[RFC9083] MUST NOT
. It

MUST

MAY

Hollenbeck

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9560

OIDC for RDAP

April 2024

MUST

 include a "farv1_session" data structure that includes a "sessionInfo" object and an

OPTIONAL
response

 "userClaims" object. If the operation is unsuccessful or if no active session exists, the
MUST NOT

 include a "farv1_session" object.

An example of a "farv1_session/status" response for an active session:

  {
    "rdapConformance": [
      "farv1"
    ],
    "lang": "en-US",
    "notices": [
      {
        "title": "Session Status Result",
        "description": [
          "Session status succeeded"
        ]
      }
    ],
    "farv1_session": {
      "userID": "user.idp.example",
      "iss": "https://idp.example.com",
      "userClaims": {
        "sub": "103892603076825016132",
        "name": "User Person",
        "given_name": "User",
        "family_name": "Person",
        "picture": "https://lh3.example.com/a-/AOh14=s96-c",
        "email": "user@example.com",
        "email_verified": true,
        "locale": "en",
        "rdap_allowed_purposes": [
          "domainNameControl",
          "personalDataProtection"
        ],
        "rdap_dnt_allowed": false
      },
      "sessionInfo": {
        "tokenExpiration": 3490,
        "tokenRefresh": true
      }
    }
  }

Figure 20

If the operation is successful and an active session does not exist, the response
of an active session in the "notices" data structure. The "farv1_session" data structure
omitted.

MAY

 note the lack

MUST

 be

Hollenbeck

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9560

OIDC for RDAP

April 2024

An example of a "farv1_session/status" response with no active session:

  {
    "rdapConformance": [
      "farv1"
    ],
    "lang": "en-US",
    "notices": [
      {
        "title": "Session Status Result",
        "description": [
          "Session status succeeded",
          "No active session"
        ]
      }
    ]
  }

Figure 21

5.4.  Session Refresh

MAY

 send a request to an RDAP server to refresh or extend an existing login session using
 attempt to refresh the access token

Clients
a "farv1_session/refresh" path segment. The RDAP server
associated with the current session as part of extending the session for a period of time
determined by the RDAP server. As described in
, OP support for refresh tokens is
 determine if the OP supports token refresh and process the
OPTIONAL
refresh request by either requesting refresh of the access token or returning a response that
indicates that token refresh is not supported by the OP in the "notices" data structure. An
example "farv1_session/refresh" request:

. An RDAP server

[RFC6749]

MUST

MAY

https://example.com/rdap/farv1_session/refresh

Figure 22

MAY

MUST

 be a valid RDAP response per

 include an indication of the requested operation's success or failure in the
 include a "farv1_session" data structure that

The response to this request
 include
any members that relate to a specific RDAP object type (e.g., "events" or "status"). In addition, the
response
"notices" data structure. The response
includes a "sessionInfo" object and an
active session exists, the response
"sessionInfo" object and an
exists, the response

 include a "farv1_session" data structure that includes a
 "userClaims" object. If unsuccessful and no active session

 "userClaims" object. If unsuccessful but an

 omit the "farv1_session" data structure.

[RFC9083] MUST NOT
. It

OPTIONAL

OPTIONAL

MUST

MUST

MUST

Hollenbeck

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 9560

OIDC for RDAP

April 2024

An example of a successful "farv1_session/refresh" response:

  {
    "rdapConformance": [
      "farv1"
    ],
    "lang": "en-US",
    "notices": [
      {
        "title": "Session Refresh Result",
        "description": [
          "Session refresh succeeded",
          "Token refresh succeeded."
        ]
      }
    ],
    "farv1_session": {
      "userID": "user.idp.example",
      "iss": "https://idp.example.com",
      "userClaims": {
        "sub": "103892603076825016132",
        "name": "User Person",
        "given_name": "User",
        "family_name": "Person",
        "picture": "https://lh3.example.com/a-/AOh14=s96-c",
        "email": "user@example.com",
        "email_verified": true,
        "locale": "en",
        "rdap_allowed_purposes": [
          "domainNameControl",
          "personalDataProtection"
        ],
        "rdap_dnt_allowed": false
      },
      "sessionInfo": {
        "tokenExpiration": 3599,
        "tokenRefresh": true
      }
    }
  }

Figure 23

MAY

Alternatively, an RDAP server
the access token associated with an existing session has expired and the corresponding OP
supports token refresh. The default RDAP server behavior is described in the
"implicitTokenRefreshSupported" value that's included in the "farv1_openidcConfiguration" data
structure (see Section 4.1).

 attempt to refresh an access token upon receipt of a query if

If the value of "implicitTokenRefreshSupported" is "true", the client
to refresh the session using the "farv1_session/refresh" query or depend on the RDAP server to
attempt to refresh the session as necessary when an RDAP query is received by the server. In this
case, a server

 attempt to refresh the access token upon receipt of a query if the access

 either explicitly attempt

MUST

MAY

Hollenbeck

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 9560

OIDC for RDAP

April 2024

token associated with an existing session has expired and the corresponding OP supports token
refresh. Servers
 return an HTTP 401 (Unauthorized) response to a query if an attempt to
implicitly refresh an existing session fails.

MUST

If the value of "implicitTokenRefreshSupported" is "false", the client
refresh the session using the "farv1_session/refresh" query to extend an existing session. If a
session cannot be extended for any reason, the client
 establish a new session to continue
authenticated query processing by submitting a "farv1_session/login" query. If the OP does not
support token refresh, the client
new session once an access token has expired.

 submit a new "farv1_session/login" request to establish a

 explicitly attempt to

MUST

MUST

MUST

SHOULD NOT

 send a "farv1_session/refresh" request in the absence of an active login

Clients
session because the request conflicts with the current state of the server. Servers
HTTP 409 (Conflict) response if a "farv1_session/refresh" request is received in the absence of a
session cookie.

MUST

 return an

5.5.  Client Logout

MAY

 send a request to an RDAP server to terminate an existing login session. Termination

Clients
of a session is requested using a "farv1_session/logout" path segment. Access and refresh tokens
can be revoked during the "farv1_session/logout" process as described in
 if supported
[RFC8414]
by the OP (token revocation endpoint support is
feature
RDAP session. Alternatively, an RDAP server
OpenID Connect RP-Initiated Logout protocol
any case, to prevent abuse before the cookie times out, an RDAP server
HTTP cookie associated with the session as part of terminating the session.

 be used to ensure that the tokens are not mistakenly associated with a future

[RFC7009]
). If supported, this

 if that protocol is supported by the OP. In

 attempt to log out from the OP using the

MAY
[OIDCL]

 invalidate the

OPTIONAL

SHOULD

SHOULD

 per

An example "farv1_session/logout" request:

https://example.com/rdap/farv1_session/logout

Figure 24

MUST

 be a valid RDAP response per

The response to this request
 include
any members that relate to a specific RDAP object type (e.g., "events" or "status"). In addition, the
response
"notices" data structure. The "notices" data structure
failure of any attempt to logout from the OP or to revoke the tokens issued by the OP.

 include an indication of the requested operation's success or failure in the

 include an indication of the success or

[RFC9083] MUST NOT
. It

MAY

MAY

Hollenbeck

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 9560

OIDC for RDAP

April 2024

An example of a "farv1_session/logout" response:

  {
    "rdapConformance": [
      "farv1"
    ],
    "lang": "en-US",
    "notices": [
      {
        "title": "Logout Result",
        "description": [
          "Logout succeeded"
          "Provider logout failed: Not supported by provider.",
          "Token revocation successful."
        ]
      }
    ]
  }

Figure 25

In the absence of a "logout" request, an RDAP session
after a server-defined period of time. The server
that the tokens associated with the terminated session cannot be reused. This
revoking the tokens or logging out from the OP if either operation is supported by the OP.

 be terminated by the RDAP server
 also take appropriate steps to ensure
 include

SHOULD

SHOULD

MUST

5.6.  Request Sequencing

The requests described in this document are typically performed in a specific sequence:

1.

"farv1_session/login" (or the related "farv1_session/device" and "farv1_session/devicepoll"
requests) to start a session,

2.

"farv1_session/status" and/or "farv1_session/refresh" to manage a session,

3.

and "farv1_session/logout" to end a session.

If a client sends a "farv1_session/status", "farv1_session/refresh", or "farv1_session/logout"
request in the absence of a session cookie, the server

 return an HTTP 409 (Conflict) error.

MUST

A client can end a session explicitly by sending a "farv1_session/logout" request to the RDAP
server. A session can also be ended implicitly by the server after a server-defined period of time.
The status of a session can be determined at any time by sending a "farv1_session/status" query
to the RDAP server.

MUST

 maintain session state information for the duration of an active session.

An RDAP server
This is commonly done using HTTP cookies as described in
to submit queries without having to explicitly identify and authenticate themselves for every
query.

. Doing so allows end users

[RFC6265]

Hollenbeck

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 9560

OIDC for RDAP

April 2024

An RDAP server can receive queries that include a session cookie where the associated session
has expired or is otherwise unavailable (e.g., due to the user requesting explicit logout for the
associated session). The server
 return an HTTP 401 (Unauthorized) error in response to
such queries.

MUST

6.  Protocol Features for Token-Oriented Clients

This specification adds additional processing steps for token-oriented clients as described in this
section and Section 3.1.3. It does not define additional data structures or RDAP-specific protocol
parameters specifically for token-oriented clients.

6.1.  Client Login

 append the "additionalAuthorizationQueryParams" values retrieved from the

Clients identify and authenticate end users by exchanging information with an OP that is
recognized by the RDAP server as described in Sections 3.1.4.2, 3.1.4.3, and 3.1.4.4. A client
SHOULD
"openidcProviders" array described in Section 4.1 to the authorization endpoint URL when
requesting authorization from the OP. Once these processes are completed successfully, the client
can request tokens from the OP as described in Section 3.1.4.5. The OP
 include the RDAP
 choose to
server's client_id in the "aud" claim value of an issued ID Token. The RDAP server
ignore the value of the "aud" claim or exchange the token as described in Section 6.4. With these
steps completed, the access token received from the OP can be passed to an RDAP server in an
HTTP "authorization" request header
identification, authentication, and authorization.

 for RDAP queries that require end-user

[RFC6750]

SHOULD

MAY

6.2.  Client Queries

MUST

 validate the token in accordance with local policy and confirm

An RDAP server that receives a bearer token in an HTTP "authorization" request header as part
of an RDAP object query
that the token is a legitimate access token. Once validated, the access token
retrieve the claims associated with the end user's identity, including claims associated with the
"rdap" scope that are not already included in the access token, as described in Section 3.1.4.6. The
RDAP server can then evaluate the end user's identity information to determine the end user's
authorization level and process the query in accordance with server policies. A client
include the "farv1_iss" query parameter and Issuer Identifier value with an RDAP query if the
token was issued by a remote OP.

 be used to

MUST

MAY

6.3.  Access Token Validation

MUST

 validate a received access token prior to using that token for access

An RDAP server
control purposes. Validation
 include token introspection
analysis of the values included in a JWT access token. Once an access token is validated, an RDAP
server

 use that token to request user claims from the issuing OP.

 using the issuing OP or

[RFC7662]

MAY

MAY

There are performance considerations associated with the process of validating a token and
requesting user claims as part of processing every received RDAP query. An RDAP server
cache validated information and use that cached information to reduce the amount of time

MAY

Hollenbeck

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 9560

OIDC for RDAP

April 2024

needed to process subsequent RDAP queries associated with the same access token as long as the
token has not expired. The client
token as needed.

 monitor the token expiration time and refresh the

SHOULD

6.4.  Token Exchange

Tokens can include an "aud" (audience) claim that contains the OAuth 2.0 client_id of the RP as
an audience value. In some operational scenarios (such as a client that is providing a proxy
service), an RP can receive tokens with an "aud" claim value that does not include the RP's
client_id. These tokens might not be trusted by the RP, and the RP might refuse to accept the
tokens. This situation can be remedied by having the RP exchange the access token with the OP
for a set of trusted tokens that reset the "aud" claim. The token exchange protocol is described in
[RFC8693]
.

7.  RDAP Query Processing

Once an RDAP session is active, an RDAP server
perform any queries that are received during the duration of the session. This
rejecting queries outright, and it
the end user is not authorized to receive. Specific processing requirements are beyond the scope
of this document.

 include omitting or otherwise redacting information that

 determine if the end user is authorized to

 include

MUST

MAY

MAY

8.  RDAP Conformance

RDAP responses that contain values described in this document
this specification by including an rdapConformance
authentication method for RDAP version 1). The information needed to register this value in the
"RDAP Extensions" registry is described in Section 9.1.

 value of "farv1" (federated

 indicate conformance with

[RFC9083]

MUST

Example rdapConformance structure with extension specified:

   "rdapConformance" :
     [
       "rdap_level_0",
       "farv1"
     ]

Figure 26

9.  IANA Considerations

9.1.  RDAP Extensions Registry

IANA has registered the following value in the "RDAP Extensions" registry:

Hollenbeck

Standards Track

Page 33

RFC 9560

OIDC for RDAP

April 2024

farv1

Extension Identifier:
Registry Operator:
Specification:
Contact:
Intended Usage:

Any
RFC 9560
IETF <iesg@ietf.org>

This extension describes federated authentication method for RDAP version 1

using OAuth 2.0 and OpenID Connect.

9.2.  JSON Web Token Claims Registry

IANA has registered the following values in the "JSON Web Token Claims" registry:

Claim Name:
Claim Description:

rdap_allowed_purposes

This claim describes the set of RDAP query purposes that are available to an

identity that is presented for access to a protected RDAP resource.

Change Controller:
Reference:

IETF

Section 3.1.5.1 of RFC 9560.

Claim Name:
Claim Description:

rdap_dnt_allowed

This claim contains a JSON boolean literal that describes a "do not track"

request for server-side tracking, logging, or recording of an identity that is presented for
access to a protected RDAP resource.

Change Controller:
Reference:

IETF

Section 3.1.5.2 of RFC 9560.

9.3.  RDAP Query Purpose Registry

IANA has created a new protocol registry to manage RDAP query purpose values.

Section at
Registry Name:
Registration Procedure(s):

https://www.iana.org/protocols
:

Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP)

Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP) Query Purpose Values

defined in
registry meet the syntax, value, and description requirements described in this section.

This registry is operated under the "Specification Required" policy
. The designated expert must ensure that requests to add values to this

[RFC8126]

Required Information:

Registration requests are described in a specification that's consistent
[RFC8126]

. The specification must include

with the "Specification Required" policy defined in
one or more purpose values as described below.

Individual purpose values are registered with IANA. Each entry in the registry contains the
following fields:

Value:

The purpose string value being registered. Value strings can contain uppercase ASCII
characters from "A" to "Z", lowercase ASCII characters from "a" to "z", and the underscore ("_")
character. Value strings contain at least one character and no more than 64 characters.

Description:

One or two sentences in English describing the meaning of the purpose value, how

it might be used, and/or how it should be interpreted by clients and servers.

Hollenbeck

Standards Track

Page 34

RFC 9560

OIDC for RDAP

April 2024

Reference:

RFC 9560

The set of initial values used to populate the registry as described below are derived from the
final report produced by the Expert Working Group on gTLD Directory Services chartered by the
Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN)

[gTLD]
.

domainNameControl

Value:
Description:

Tasks within the scope of this purpose include, for a registrant's own domain

name, creating the domain name, updating information about the domain name, transferring
the domain name, renewing the domain name, deleting the domain name, maintaining a
domain name portfolio, and detecting fraudulent use of the registrant's own contact
information.

Reference:

RFC 9560

personalDataProtection

Value:
Description:

Tasks within the scope of this purpose include identifying the accredited privacy

or proxy provider associated with a domain name, reporting abuse, requesting reveal, or
otherwise contacting the provider.

Reference:

RFC 9560

technicalIssueResolution

Value:
Description:

Tasks within the scope of this purpose include (but are not limited to) working to

resolve technical issues, including email delivery issues, DNS resolution failures, and website
functionality issues.

Reference:

RFC 9560

domainNameCertification

Value:
Description:

Tasks within the scope of this purpose include a Certification Authority (CA)

issuing an X.509 certificate to a subject identified by a domain name.

Reference:

RFC 9560

individualInternetUse

Value:
Description:

Tasks within the scope of this purpose include identifying the organization using a

domain name to instill consumer trust or contacting that organization to raise a customer
complaint to them or file a complaint about them.

Reference:

RFC 9560

businessDomainNamePurchaseOrSale

Value:
Description:

Tasks within the scope of this purpose include making purchase queries about a

domain name, acquiring a domain name from a registrant, and enabling due diligence
research.

Reference:

RFC 9560

Hollenbeck

Standards Track

Page 35

RFC 9560

OIDC for RDAP

April 2024

academicPublicInterestDNSResearch

Value:
Description:

Tasks within the scope of this purpose include academic public interest research

studies about domain names published in the registration data service, including public
information about the registrant and designated contacts, the domain name's history and
status, and domain names registered by a given registrant (reverse query).

Reference:

RFC 9560

legalActions

Value:
Description:

Tasks within the scope of this purpose include investigating possible fraudulent

use of a registrant's name or address by other domain names, investigating possible
trademark infringement, contacting a registrant's or licensee's legal representative prior to
taking legal action, and then taking a legal action if the concern is not satisfactorily addressed.

Reference:

RFC 9560

regulatoryAndContractEnforcement

Value:
Description:

Tasks within the scope of this purpose include investigating the tax authority of
businesses with online presences, investigating Uniform Domain-Name Dispute-Resolution
Policy (UDRP), investigating contractual compliance, and registering data escrow audits.

Reference:

RFC 9560

criminalInvestigationAndDNSAbuseMitigation

Value:
Description:

Tasks within the scope of this purpose include reporting abuse to someone who

can investigate and address that abuse or contacting entities associated with a domain name
during an offline criminal investigation.

Reference:

RFC 9560

dnsTransparency

Value:
Description:

Tasks within the scope of this purpose involve querying the registration data made

public by registrants to satisfy a wide variety of use cases around informing the public.

Reference:

RFC 9560

10.  Security Considerations

[OIDCC]

Security considerations for RDAP can be found in
Connect Core
 and OAuth 2.0
best current security practice for OAuth 2.0 can be found in
[RFC9325] MUST
practices described in
protocol is used.

[RFC6749]

[RFC7481]

. Security considerations for OpenID

 can be found in their reference specifications;
[OAUTH-SECURITY]

. Additionally, the

 be followed when the Transport Layer Security (TLS)

As described in Section 3.1.4.2, the OAuth 2.0 Implicit Flow
efforts are being made to deprecate the flow. It

MUST NOT

 be used.

[RFC6749]

 is considered insecure, and

Hollenbeck

Standards Track

Page 36

RFC 9560

OIDC for RDAP

April 2024

Some of the responses described in this specification return information to a client from an
RDAP server that is intended to help the client match responses to queries and manage sessions.
Some of that information, such as the "userClaims" described in Section 5.1.1, can be personally
identifiable and considered sensitive if disclosed to unauthorized parties. An RDAP server
operator must develop policies for information disclosure to ensure that personally identifiable
information is disclosed only to clients that are authorized to process that information.

The "do not track" claim relies on the good will of the RDAP server and associated proxies. As
such, using and processing this claim depends on out-of-band trust relationships that need to be
established before the claim is used in practice. If used and accepted by the RDAP server, there is
a risk of information loss that could seriously impair audit capabilities.

10.1.  Authentication and Access Control

Having completed the client identification, authorization, and validation process, an RDAP server
can make access control decisions based on a comparison of client-provided information (such as
the set of "userClaims" described in Section 5.1.1) and local policy. For example, a client who
provides an email address (and nothing more) might be entitled to receive a subset of the
information that would be available to a client who provides an email address, a full name, and a
stated purpose. Development of these access control policies is beyond the scope of this
document.

11.  References

11.1.  Normative References

[HTMLURL]

[OIDCC]

[OIDCD]

[OIDCL]

[OIDCR]

[RFC2119]

WHATWG "URL (Living Standard)"

,

, March 2024,

<https://url.spec.whatwg.org/>

.

,

Sakimura, N. Bradley, J. Jones, M. de Medeiros, B.
,
Connect Core 1.0 incorporating errata set 2"
openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html>

.

,

, and
, December 2023,

C. Mortimore "OpenID

,
<https://

Sakimura, N. Bradley, J. Jones, M.
,
incorporating errata set 2"
connect-discovery-1_0.html>

.

,

, and

,
E. Jay "OpenID Connect Discovery 1.0
<https://openid.net/specs/openid-

, December 2023,

,

Jones, M. de Medeiros, B. Agarwal, N. Sakimura, N.
,
Connect RP-Initiated Logout 1.0"
openid-connect-rpinitiated-1_0.html>

, September 2022,

.

,

, and

J. Bradley "OpenID
,
<https://openid.net/specs/

,

Sakimura, N. Bradley, J.
Registration 1.0 incorporating errata set 2"
specs/openid-connect-registration-1_0.html>

, and

,

.

M. Jones "OpenID Connect Dynamic Client
, December 2023,

<https://openid.net/

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Hollenbeck

Standards Track

Page 37

RFC 9560

OIDC for RDAP

April 2024

[RFC6265]

[RFC6749]

[RFC6750]

[RFC7009]

[RFC7480]

[RFC7481]

[RFC7519]

[RFC7617]

[RFC7662]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8628]

[RFC8693]

[RFC9068]

Barth, A. "HTTP State Management Mechanism" RFC 6265 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6265

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6265>

,
, April 2011,

,

,

.

Hardt, D., Ed. "The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework" RFC 6749 DOI
10.17487/RFC6749

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6749>

, October 2012,

,

,

,

.

 and

Jones, M.
Usage" RFC 6750 DOI 10.17487/RFC6750
editor.org/info/rfc6750>

,

,

.

D. Hardt "The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework: Bearer Token

,

, October 2012,

<https://www.rfc-

Lodderstedt, T., Ed. Dronia, S.
RFC 7009 DOI 10.17487/RFC7009
rfc7009>

,
.

,

, and

,
M. Scurtescu "OAuth 2.0 Token Revocation"
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, August 2013,

Newton, A. Ellacott, B.
,
Access Protocol (RDAP)" STD 95 RFC 7480 DOI 10.17487/RFC7480
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7480>

N. Kong "HTTP Usage in the Registration Data

, and
,

,
.

,

, March 2015,

Hollenbeck, S.
 and
Protocol (RDAP)" STD 95 RFC 7481 DOI 10.17487/RFC7481
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7481>

,

,

.

N. Kong "Security Services for the Registration Data Access

,

, March 2015,

<https://

Jones, M. Bradley, J.
,
10.17487/RFC7519

, and

N. Sakimura "JSON Web Token (JWT)" RFC 7519 DOI

,

,

,

, May 2015,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7519>

.

Reschke, J. "The 'Basic' HTTP Authentication Scheme" RFC 7617 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7617

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7617>

, September 2015,

,

,

,

.

Richer, J., Ed. "OAuth 2.0 Token Introspection" RFC 7662 DOI 10.17487/RFC7662
,
,
October 2015,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7662>

,
.

,

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

, June

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

.

,

,

,

,

Denniss, W. Bradley, J. Jones, M.
Authorization Grant" RFC 8628 DOI 10.17487/RFC8628
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8628>

, and

,

,

,

.

H. Tschofenig "OAuth 2.0 Device

, August 2019,

<https://

,

Jones, M. Nadalin, A. Campbell, B., Ed. Bradley, J.
Token Exchange" RFC 8693 DOI 10.17487/RFC8693
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8693>

,

,

,

,

.

, and

C. Mortimore "OAuth 2.0

,

, January 2020,

<https://

,

Bertocci, V. "JSON Web Token (JWT) Profile for OAuth 2.0 Access Tokens" RFC
9068 DOI 10.17487/RFC9068
,
rfc9068>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, October 2021,

,

.

Hollenbeck

Standards Track

Page 38

RFC 9560

OIDC for RDAP

April 2024

[RFC9082]

[RFC9083]

[RFC9110]

[RFC9325]

Hollenbeck, S.
Format" STD 95 RFC 9082 DOI 10.17487/RFC9082
editor.org/info/rfc9082>
.

A. Newton "Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP) Query
<https://www.rfc-

, June 2021,

 and
,

,

,

,

Hollenbeck, S.
,
 and
Protocol (RDAP)" STD 95 RFC 9083 DOI 10.17487/RFC9083
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9083>

,

,

.

A. Newton "JSON Responses for the Registration Data Access

, June 2021,

<https://

,

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
97 RFC 9110 DOI 10.17487/RFC9110
rfc9110>

,

,

.

, and
, June 2022,

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP Semantics" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

,

, and

Sheffer, Y. Saint-Andre, P.
,
Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)"
BCP 195 RFC 9325 DOI 10.17487/RFC9325
editor.org/info/rfc9325>

T. Fossati "Recommendations for Secure Use of

, November 2022,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

,

11.2.  Informative References

[gTLD]

Expert Working Group on gTLD Directory Services (EWG) "Final Report from
the Expert Working Group on gTLD Directory Services: A Next-Generation
Registration Directory Service (RDS)"
system/files/files/final-report-06jun14-en.pdf>

<https://www.icann.org/en/

, June 2014,

,

.

[OAUTH-SECURITY]

Lodderstedt, T. Bradley, J. Labunets, A.

,

, and

D. Fett "OAuth 2.0 Security

,

Best Current Practice" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-oauth-
security-topics-26
oauth-security-topics-26>

, 21 April 2024,
.

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-

,

,
,

[OIDC]

OpenID "What is OpenID Connect" <https://openid.net/developers/how-connect-
,
works/>
.

,

[RFC4949]

[RFC8414]

[RFC8792]

Shirey, R. "Internet Security Glossary, Version 2" FYI 36 RFC 4949 DOI
,
10.17487/RFC4949

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4949>

, August 2007,

,

,

,

.

,

Jones, M. Sakimura, N.
Metadata" RFC 8414 DOI 10.17487/RFC8414
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc8414>

, and

.

J. Bradley "OAuth 2.0 Authorization Server
, June 2018,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

Watsen, K. Auerswald, E. Farrel, A.
Content of Internet-Drafts and RFCs" RFC 8792 DOI 10.17487/RFC8792
2020,

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8792>
.

Q. Wu "Handling Long Lines in

, and
,

,

, June

Acknowledgments

The author would like to acknowledge the following individuals for their contributions to the
development of this document:
,
,
,
Jasdip Singh Rhys Smith Jaromir Talir Rick Wilhelm
,
. In addition, the
Verisign Registry Services Lab development team of

, and
Joseph Harvey Andrew Kaizer Sai Mogali

Julien Bernard Marc Blanchet Tom Harrison Russ Housley
,

Alessandro Vesely
,

,

,

,

,

Hollenbeck

Standards Track

Page 39

RFC 9560

OIDC for RDAP

April 2024

,

Anurag Saxena Swapneel Sheth Nitin Singh
implementation experience that helped demonstrate the validity of the concepts described in this
document.

 provided critical "proof of concept"

Zhao Zhao

, and

,

Pawel Kowalik
improvements in several sections of this document. Their contributions are greatly appreciated.

 provided significant text contributions that led to welcome

Mario Loffredo

 and

Author's Address

Scott Hollenbeck
Verisign Labs
12061 Bluemont Way
Reston VA 20190
United States of America
Email:
URI:

,

 shollenbeck@verisign.com
 https://www.verisignlabs.com/

Hollenbeck

Standards Track

Page 40

