Stream:
RFC:
Obsoletes:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9565
7125
Standards Track
March 2024
2070-1721
M. Boucadair
Orange

RFC 9565
An Update to the tcpControlBits IP Flow Information
Export (IPFIX) Information Element

Abstract

RFC 7125 revised the tcpControlBits IP Flow Information Export (IPFIX) Information Element that
was originally defined in RFC 5102 to reflect changes to the TCP header control bits since RFC
793. However, that update is still problematic for interoperability because some flag values have
subsequently been deprecated.

This document removes stale information from the IANA "IPFIX Information Elements" registry
and avoids future conflicts with the authoritative IANA "TCP Header Flags" registry.

This document obsoletes RFC 7125.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9565
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Boucadair

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9565

tcpControlBits IPFIX Information Element

March 2024

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  Revised tcpControlBits Information Element

4.  An Example

5.  IANA Considerations

6.  Security Considerations

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Changes from RFC 7125

Acknowledgments

Acknowledgments from RFC 7125

Contributors

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

2

3

3

4

5

5

5

5

5

6

6

7

7

7

). The "TCP Header Flags" registry was initially set by

TCP defines a set of control bits (also known as "flags") for managing connections (
[RFC9293]
with only TCP control bits that were defined in
registry to be listed as a subregistry under the "Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) Parameters"
[TCP-FLAGS]
registry
, and removing
the NS (Nonce Sum) bit per
 introduces "Bit Offset" to ease
referencing each header flag's offset within the 16-bit aligned view of the TCP header (Figure 1 of
[RFC9293]
).
control bits.

Section 3.1 of
, but it was populated
 fixed that by moving that

 is thus settled as the authoritative reference for the assigned TCP

, adding bits that had previously been specified in

Section 6 of [RFC9293]

[RFC3168] [RFC9293]
.

[TCP-FLAGS]

[RFC0793]

[RFC8311]

[RFC3168]

. Also,

Boucadair

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9565

tcpControlBits IPFIX Information Element

March 2024

Note: The bits in offsets 0 through 3 are not header flags, but the TCP segment Data Offset
field.

 revised the tcpControlBits IP Flow Information Export (IPFIX) Information Element

. However, that update is still problematic for interoperability because a value was

 to reflect changes to the TCP control bits since

[RFC7125]
that was originally defined in
[RFC0793]
deprecated since then (
authoritative "TCP Header Flags" registry

[RFC5102]

Section 7 of [RFC8311]

), and, therefore,
[TCP-FLAGS]
.

[RFC7125]

 risks deviating from the

[IPFIX]

This document fixes that problem by removing stale information from the "IPFIX Information
Elements" registry
Flags" registry
example, network operators can identify packets that are observed with unassigned TCP flags set
and, therefore, identify which applications in the network should be upgraded to reflect the
changes to TCP flags that were introduced, e.g., in

 and avoiding future conflicts with the authoritative "TCP Header
. The update in this document also enhances observability. For

[TCP-FLAGS]

[RFC8311]
.

The main changes from

[RFC7125]

 are listed in Appendix A.

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

This document uses the terms defined in

Section 2 of [RFC7011]
.

3.  Revised tcpControlBits Information Element

ElementID:

6

Name:

tcpControlBits

Abstract Data Type:

unsigned16

Data Type Semantics:

flags

Status:

current

Description:

TCP control bits observed for the packets of this Flow. This information is encoded

as a bit field; each TCP control bit has a corresponding bit in that field. A bit is set to 1 if any
observed packet of this Flow has the corresponding TCP control bit set to 1. The bit is cleared
to 0 otherwise.

, the assignment of TCP control bits is managed by IANA via the "TCP Header
[RFC9293]
Per
[TCP-FLAGS]
Flags" registry
registry, which is authoritative for them.

. Implementers can retrieve the current TCP control bits from that

Boucadair

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9565

tcpControlBits IPFIX Information Element

March 2024

As the most significant 4 bits of octets 12 and 13 (counting from zero) of the TCP header
[RFC9293]
this Information Element
 be
ignored by the Collector. Use the tcpHeaderLength Information Element to encode this value.

 are used to encode the TCP data offset (header length), the corresponding bits in
MUST

 be reported by the Exporter with a value of zero and

MUST

All TCP control bits (including those unassigned)
headers of the packets of this Flow.

MUST

 be exported as observed in the TCP

If exported as a single octet with reduced-size encoding (
Information Element covers the low-order octet of this field (i.e., bit offset positions 8 to 15)
[TCP-FLAGS]
not assume anything about the content of the four bits with bit offset positions 4 to 7.

. A Collector receiving this Information Element with reduced-size encoding must

Section 6.2 of [RFC7011]

), this

Exporting Processes exporting this Information Element on behalf of a Metering Process that
is not capable of observing any of the flags with bit offset positions 4 to 7
reduced-size encoding, and only export the least significant 8 bits of this Information Element.

SHOULD

 use

Note that previous revisions of this Information Element's definition specified that flags with
bit offset positions 8 and 9 must be exported as zero, even if observed. Collectors should
therefore not assume that a value of zero for these bits in this Information Element indicates
the bits were never set in the observed traffic, especially if these bits are zero in every Flow
Record sent by a given Exporter.

Note also that the "TCP Header Flags" registry
most significant bit of octet 12 to the least significant bit of octet 13 in the TCP header, but the
tcpControlBits is encoded as a regular unsigned 16-bit integer.

 indexes the bit offset from the

[TCP-FLAGS]

Units:

Range:

Additional Information:

See the assigned TCP control bits in the "TCP Header Flags" registry

[TCP-FLAGS]
.

Reference:

[RFC9293]

, RFC 9565

Revision:

2

4.  An Example

Figure 1 shows an example of a tcpControlBits Information Element set to 0x92, where MSB
indicates the most significant bit and LSB indicates the least significant bit. This Information
Element is used to report TCP control bits for a Flow that has CWR (Congestion Window
Reduced), ACK, and SYN flag bits set (that is, bit offset positions 8, 11, and 14).

Boucadair

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9565

tcpControlBits IPFIX Information Element

March 2024

MSB                           LSB
                     1
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|1|0|0|1|0|0|1|0|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 1: An Example of the tcpControlBits Information Element

5.  IANA Considerations

IANA has updated the "tcpControlBits" entry of the "IPFIX Information Elements" registry
to echo the details provided in Section 3.

[IPFIX]

6.  Security Considerations

Because the setting of TCP control bits may be misused in some Flows (e.g., Distributed Denial-of-
Service (DDoS) attacks), an Exporter has to report all observed control bits even if no meaning is
associated with a given TCP flag. This document uses a stronger requirements language
compared to

[RFC7125]
.

This document does not add new security considerations to those already discussed for IPFIX in
[RFC7011]
.

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC7011]

[RFC8174]

[RFC9293]

[TCP-FLAGS]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Claise, B., Ed. Trammell, B., Ed.
Information Export (IPFIX) Protocol for the Exchange of Flow Information" STD
77 RFC 7011 DOI 10.17487/RFC7011
editor.org/info/rfc7011>

P. Aitken "Specification of the IP Flow

, September 2013,

<https://www.rfc-

, and

,

,

,

,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

Eddy, W., Ed. "Transmission Control Protocol (TCP)" STD 7 RFC 9293 DOI
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9293>
10.17487/RFC9293
.

, August 2022,

,

,

,

IANA "TCP Header Flags" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/tcp-parameters/>

,

,

.

7.2.  Informative References

Boucadair

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9565

tcpControlBits IPFIX Information Element

March 2024

[IPFIX]

[RFC0793]

[RFC3168]

[RFC5102]

[RFC7125]

[RFC8311]

[RFC9487]

IANA "IPFIX Information Elements" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/ipfix/>

,

,

.

Postel, J. "Transmission Control Protocol" RFC 793 DOI 10.17487/RFC0793
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc793>
September 1981,

,

,

.

,

Ramakrishnan, K. Floyd, S.
Notification (ECN) to IP" RFC 3168 DOI 10.17487/RFC3168
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3168>

, and

,

,

,

.

D. Black "The Addition of Explicit Congestion

,

, September 2001,

,

Quittek, J. Bryant, S. Claise, B. Aitken, P.
,
,
IP Flow Information Export" RFC 5102 DOI 10.17487/RFC5102
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5102>

, and

,

.

J. Meyer "Information Model for

,

, January 2008,

 and

Trammell, B.
Export (IPFIX) Information Element" RFC 7125 DOI 10.17487/RFC7125
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7125>
February 2014,

P. Aitken "Revision of the tcpControlBits IP Flow Information
,

,

,

,

.

,

Black, D. "Relaxing Restrictions on Explicit Congestion Notification (ECN)
Experimentation" RFC 8311 DOI 10.17487/RFC8311
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8311>

, January 2018,

<https://

,

,

.

, and

Graf, T. Claise, B.
,
Information in IP Flow Information Export (IPFIX)" RFC 9487 DOI 10.17487/
RFC9487

P. Francois "Export of Segment Routing over IPv6

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9487>

, November 2023,

,

,

,

.

Appendix A.  Changes from RFC 7125

•

Cleaned up the description of the tcpControlBits Information Element by removing mentions
of stale flag bits, referring to the flag bits by their bit offset position, and relying upon the
IANA "TCP Header Flags" registry.

•

Removed the table of TCP flag bits from the description of the tcpControlBits Information
Element.

•

Added the reference
Information Element.

[TCP-FLAGS]

 to the Additional Information field of the tcpControlBits

•

Used strong normative language for exporting observed flags.

•

Updated the references of the tcpControlBits Information Element.

•

Bumped the revision of the tcpControlBits Information Element.

•

Replaced obsolete RFCs (e.g.,

[RFC0793]

).

•

Added an example section (Section 4).

Acknowledgments

This document was triggered by a discussion in the opsawg working group between the author
and the authors of

[RFC9487]
.

Thanks to

Christian Jacquenet Thomas Graf

,

, and

Benoît Claise

 for the review and comments.

Boucadair

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9565

tcpControlBits IPFIX Information Element

March 2024

Thanks to
Davies

Michael Scharf
 for the genart review.

 for the tsvart review,

Ketan Talaulikar

 for the rtgdir review, and

Elwyn

Thanks to

Rob Wilton

 for the AD review.

Thanks to

Tim Bray

 for the artart review and

Shawn Emery

 for the secdir review.

Thanks to

Éric Vyncke

 and

Paul Wouters

 for the comments in the IESG review.

Acknowledgments from RFC 7125

Andrew Feren Lothar Braun Michael Scharf

Thanks to
the revised definition. This work is partially supported by the European Commission under grant
agreement FP7-ICT-318627 mPlane; this does not imply endorsement by the Commission.

 for comments on

Simon Josefsson

, and

,

,

Contributors

The authors of

[RFC7125]

 are as follows:

Brian Trammell

Paul Aitken

Author's Address

Mohamed Boucadair
Orange
35000 Rennes
France
Email:

 mohamed.boucadair@orange.com

Boucadair

Standards Track

Page 7

