Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9298
Standards Track
August 2022
2070-1721
D. Schinazi
Google LLC

RFC 9298
Proxying UDP in HTTP

Abstract

This document describes how to proxy UDP in HTTP, similar to how the HTTP CONNECT method
allows proxying TCP in HTTP. More specifically, this document defines a protocol that allows an
HTTP client to create a tunnel for UDP communications through an HTTP server that acts as a
proxy.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9298
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Schinazi

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9298

Proxying UDP in HTTP

August 2022

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Conventions and Definitions

2.  Client Configuration

3.  Tunneling UDP over HTTP

3.1.  UDP Proxy Handling

3.2.  HTTP/1.1 Request

3.3.  HTTP/1.1 Response

3.4.  HTTP/2 and HTTP/3 Requests

3.5.  HTTP/2 and HTTP/3 Responses

4.  Context Identifiers

5.  HTTP Datagram Payload Format

6.  Performance Considerations

6.1.  MTU Considerations

6.2.  Tunneling of ECN Marks

7.  Security Considerations

8.  IANA Considerations

8.1.  HTTP Upgrade Token

8.2.  Well-Known URI

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Author's Address

Schinazi

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9298

Proxying UDP in HTTP

August 2022

1.  Introduction

While HTTP provides the CONNECT method (see
tunnel to a proxy, it lacked a method for doing so for UDP

Section 9.3.6 of [HTTP]
[UDP]

) for creating a TCP

[TCP]
 traffic prior to this specification.

This document describes a protocol for tunneling UDP to a server acting as a UDP-specific proxy
over HTTP. UDP tunnels are commonly used to create an end-to-end virtual connection, which
can then be secured using QUIC
 or another protocol running over UDP. Unlike the HTTP
CONNECT method, the UDP proxy itself is identified with an absolute URL containing the traffic's
destination. Clients generate those URLs using a URI Template
Section 2.

, as described in

[TEMPLATE]

[QUIC]

This protocol supports all existing versions of HTTP by using HTTP Datagrams
When using HTTP/2
[EXT-CONNECT2]
in
Upgrade as defined in

[EXT-CONNECT3]
Section 7.8 of [HTTP]
.

. When using HTTP/1.x

[HTTP/2]
 and

 or HTTP/3

[HTTP/1.1]

[HTTP/3]

[HTTP-DGRAM]
.

, it uses HTTP

, it uses HTTP Extended CONNECT as described

1.1.  Conventions and Definitions

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

In this document, we use the term "UDP proxy" to refer to the HTTP server that acts upon the
client's UDP tunneling request to open a UDP socket to a target server and that generates the
Section 3.7 of [HTTP]
response to this request. If there are HTTP intermediaries (as defined in
)
between the client and the UDP proxy, those are referred to as "intermediaries" in this document.

Note that, when the HTTP version in use does not support multiplexing streams (such as HTTP/
1.1), any reference to "stream" in this document represents the entire connection.

2.  Client Configuration

HTTP clients are configured to use a UDP proxy with a URI Template
variables "target_host" and "target_port". Examples are shown below:

[TEMPLATE]

 that has the

https://example.org/.well-known/masque/udp/{target_host}/{target_port}/
https://proxy.example.org:4443/masque?h={target_host}&p={target_port}
https://proxy.example.org:4443/masque{?target_host,target_port}

Figure 1: URI Template Examples

Schinazi

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9298

Proxying UDP in HTTP

August 2022

The following requirements apply to the URI Template:

•

The URI Template

MUST

 be a level 3 template or lower.

•

The URI Template
MUST
and path components.

 be in absolute form and

MUST

 include non-empty scheme, authority,

•

The path component of the URI Template

MUST

 start with a slash ("/").

•

All template variables

MUST

 be within the path or query components of the URI.

•

The URI Template
MUST
contain other variables.

 contain the two variables "target_host" and "target_port" and

MAY

•

The URI Template
contain ASCII characters in the range 0x21-0x7E inclusive (note that percent-encoding is
allowed; see

 contain any non-ASCII Unicode characters and

Section 2.1 of [URI]

MUST NOT

MUST

 only

).

•

The URI Template
("#" operator), Label Expansion with Dot-Prefix, Path Segment Expansion with Slash-Prefix,
nor Path-Style Parameter Expansion with Semicolon-Prefix.

 use Reserved Expansion ("+" operator), Fragment Expansion

MUST NOT

SHOULD

 validate the requirements above; however, clients

Clients
URI Template implementation that lacks this specific validation. If a client detects that any of the
requirements above are not met by a URI Template, the client
abort the request without sending it to the UDP proxy.

 reject its configuration and

 use a general-purpose

MUST

MAY

The original HTTP CONNECT method allowed for the conveyance of the target host and port, but
not the scheme, proxy authority, path, or query. Thus, clients with proxy configuration interfaces
that only allow the user to configure the proxy host and the proxy port exist. Client
implementations of this specification that are constrained by such limitations
MAY
access UDP proxying capabilities using the default template, which is defined as "https://
$PROXY_HOST:$PROXY_PORT/.well-known/masque/udp/{target_host}/{target_port}/", where
$PROXY_HOST and $PROXY_PORT are the configured host and port of the UDP proxy,
respectively. UDP proxy deployments
SHOULD
interoperate with such clients.

 offer service at this location if they need to

 attempt to

3.  Tunneling UDP over HTTP

To allow negotiation of a tunnel for UDP over HTTP, this document defines the "connect-udp"
HTTP upgrade token. The resulting UDP tunnels use the Capsule Protocol (see
[HTTP-DGRAM]

) with HTTP Datagrams in the format defined in Section 5.

Section 3.2 of

To initiate a UDP tunnel associated with a single HTTP stream, a client issues a request
containing the "connect-udp" upgrade token. The target of the tunnel is indicated by the client to
the UDP proxy via the "target_host" and "target_port" variables of the URI Template; see Section
2.

Schinazi

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9298

Proxying UDP in HTTP

August 2022

"target_host" supports using DNS names, IPv6 literals and IPv4 literals. Note that IPv6 scoped
addressing zone identifiers are not supported. Using the terms IPv6address, IPv4address, reg-
name, and port from
format in Figure 2, using notation from

, the "target_host" and "target_port" variables

. Additionally:

 adhere to the

[ABNF]

[URI]

MUST

•

both the "target_host" and "target_port" variables

MUST NOT

 be empty.

•

if "target_host" contains an IPv6 literal, the colons (":")
example, if the target host is "2001:db8::42", it will be encoded in the URI as
"2001%3Adb8%3A%3A42".

MUST

 be percent-encoded. For

•

"target_port"

MUST

 represent an integer between 1 and 65535 inclusive.

target_host = IPv6address / IPv4address / reg-name
target_port = port

Figure 2: URI Template Variable Format

When sending its UDP proxying request, the client
determine the path and query of its request.

SHALL

 perform URI Template expansion to

If the request is successful, the UDP proxy commits to converting received HTTP Datagrams into
UDP packets, and vice versa, until the tunnel is closed.

By virtue of the definition of the Capsule Protocol (see
proxying requests do not carry any message content. Similarly, successful UDP proxying
responses also do not carry any message content.

Section 3.2 of [HTTP-DGRAM]

), UDP

3.1.  UDP Proxy Handling

Upon receiving a UDP proxying request:

•

if the recipient is configured to use another HTTP proxy, it will act as an intermediary by
forwarding the request to another HTTP server. Note that such intermediaries may need to
re-encode the request if they forward it using a version of HTTP that is different from the
one used to receive it, as the request encoding differs by version (see below).

•

otherwise, the recipient will act as a UDP proxy. It extracts the "target_host" and "target_port"
variables from the URI it has reconstructed from the request headers, decodes their percent-
encoding, and establishes a tunnel by directly opening a UDP socket to the requested target.

Unlike TCP, UDP is connectionless. The UDP proxy that opens the UDP socket has no way of
knowing whether the destination is reachable. Therefore, it needs to respond to the request
without waiting for a packet from the target. However, if the "target_host" is a DNS name, the
 perform DNS resolution before replying to the HTTP request. If errors occur
UDP proxy
during this process, the UDP proxy
 send details using an
appropriate Proxy-Status header field
an error, the proxy can use the dns_error Proxy Error Type from
STATUS]
.

. For example, if DNS resolution returns

Section 2.3.2 of [PROXY-

 reject the request and

[PROXY-STATUS]

SHOULD

MUST

MUST

Schinazi

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9298

Proxying UDP in HTTP

August 2022

UDP proxies can use connected UDP sockets if their operating system supports them, as that
allows the UDP proxy to rely on the kernel to only send it UDP packets that match the correct 5-
tuple. If the UDP proxy uses a non-connected socket, it
 validate the IP source address and
UDP source port on received packets to ensure they match the client's request. Packets that do
not match

 be discarded by the UDP proxy.

MUST

MUST

The lifetime of the socket is tied to the request stream. The UDP proxy
 keep the socket open
while the request stream is open. If a UDP proxy is notified by its operating system that its socket
is no longer usable, it
ICMP Destination Unreachable message is received; see
choose to close sockets due to a period of inactivity, but they
closing the socket. UDP proxies that close sockets after a period of inactivity
period lower than two minutes; see

 close the request stream. For example, this can happen when an
. UDP proxies

 close the request stream when
SHOULD NOT

Section 4.3 of [BEHAVE]
.

Section 3.1 of [ICMP6]

 use a

MUST

MUST

MUST

MAY

A successful response (as defined in Sections 3.3 and 3.5) indicates that the UDP proxy has
opened a socket to the requested target and is willing to proxy UDP payloads. Any response other
than a successful response indicates that the request has failed; thus, the client
request.

 abort the

MUST

MUST NOT

 introduce fragmentation at the IP layer when forwarding HTTP

UDP proxies
Datagrams onto a UDP socket; overly large datagrams are silently dropped. In IPv4, the Don't
Fragment (DF) bit
extensions

 be set, if possible, to prevent fragmentation on the path. Future

 remove these requirements.

MUST

MAY

Implementers of UDP proxies will benefit from reading the guidance in

[UDP-USAGE]
.

3.2.  HTTP/1.1 Request

When using HTTP/1.1

[HTTP/1.1]

, a UDP proxying request will meet the following requirements:

•

the method

SHALL

 be "GET".

•

the request

SHALL

 include a single Host header field containing the origin of the UDP proxy.

•

the request
requirement is case-insensitive as per

SHALL

Section 7.6.1 of [HTTP]

).

 include a Connection header field with value "Upgrade" (note that this

•

the request

SHALL

 include an Upgrade header field with value "connect-udp".

A UDP proxying request that does not conform to these restrictions is malformed. The recipient
of such a malformed request
status code.

 respond with an error and

 use the 400 (Bad Request)

SHOULD

MUST

For example, if the client is configured with URI Template "https://example.org/.well-known/
masque/udp/{target_host}/{target_port}/" and wishes to open a UDP proxying tunnel to target
192.0.2.6:443, it could send the following request:

Schinazi

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9298

Proxying UDP in HTTP

August 2022

GET https://example.org/.well-known/masque/udp/192.0.2.6/443/ HTTP/1.1
Host: example.org
Connection: Upgrade
Upgrade: connect-udp
Capsule-Protocol: ?1

Figure 3: Example HTTP/1.1 Request

In HTTP/1.1, this protocol uses the GET method to mimic the design of the WebSocket Protocol
[WEBSOCKET]
.

3.3.  HTTP/1.1 Response

The UDP proxy
requirements:

SHALL

 indicate a successful response by replying with the following

•

the HTTP status code on the response

SHALL

 be 101 (Switching Protocols).

•

the response
requirement is case-insensitive as per

SHALL

Section 7.6.1 of [HTTP]

).

 include a Connection header field with value "Upgrade" (note that this

•

the response

SHALL

 include a single Upgrade header field with value "connect-udp".

•

the response
Protocol; see

SHALL
Section 3.2 of [HTTP-DGRAM]

.

 meet the requirements of HTTP responses that start the Capsule

If any of these requirements are not met, the client
and abort the connection.

MUST

 treat this proxying attempt as failed

For example, the UDP proxy could respond with:

HTTP/1.1 101 Switching Protocols
Connection: Upgrade
Upgrade: connect-udp
Capsule-Protocol: ?1

Figure 4: Example HTTP/1.1 Response

3.4.  HTTP/2 and HTTP/3 Requests

[HTTP/2]

When using HTTP/2
CONNECT. This requires that servers send an HTTP Setting as specified in
[EXT-CONNECT3]
requirements:

 or HTTP/3

[HTTP/3]

 and that requests use HTTP pseudo-header fields with the following

, UDP proxying requests use HTTP Extended

[EXT-CONNECT2]

 and

•

The :method pseudo-header field

SHALL

 be "CONNECT".

•

The :protocol pseudo-header field

SHALL

 be "connect-udp".

•

The :authority pseudo-header field

SHALL

 contain the authority of the UDP proxy.

Schinazi

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9298

Proxying UDP in HTTP

August 2022

•

The :path and :scheme pseudo-header fields
SHALL
contain the scheme and path from the URI Template after the URI Template expansion
process has been completed.

 be empty. Their values

SHALL NOT

A UDP proxying request that does not conform to these restrictions is malformed (see
8.1.1 of [HTTP/2]

Section 4.1.2 of [HTTP/3]

 and

).

Section

For example, if the client is configured with URI Template "https://example.org/.well-known/
masque/udp/{target_host}/{target_port}/" and wishes to open a UDP proxying tunnel to target
192.0.2.6:443, it could send the following request:

HEADERS
:method = CONNECT
:protocol = connect-udp
:scheme = https
:path = /.well-known/masque/udp/192.0.2.6/443/
:authority = example.org
capsule-protocol = ?1

Figure 5: Example HTTP/2 Request

3.5.  HTTP/2 and HTTP/3 Responses

The UDP proxy
requirements:

SHALL

 indicate a successful response by replying with the following

•

the HTTP status code on the response

SHALL

 be in the 2xx (Successful) range.

•

the response
Protocol; see

SHALL
Section 3.2 of [HTTP-DGRAM]

.

 meet the requirements of HTTP responses that start the Capsule

If any of these requirements are not met, the client
and abort the request.

MUST

 treat this proxying attempt as failed

For example, the UDP proxy could respond with:

HEADERS
:status = 200
capsule-protocol = ?1

Figure 6: Example HTTP/2 Response

Schinazi

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9298

Proxying UDP in HTTP

August 2022

4.  Context Identifiers

The mechanism for proxying UDP in HTTP defined in this document allows future extensions to
exchange HTTP Datagrams that carry different semantics from UDP payloads. Some of these
extensions can augment UDP payloads with additional data, while others can exchange data that
is completely separate from UDP payloads. In order to accomplish this, all HTTP Datagrams
associated with UDP Proxying request streams start with a Context ID field; see Section 5.

Section 16 of [QUIC]

Context IDs are 62-bit integers (0 to 262-1). Context IDs are encoded as variable-length integers;
see
. The Context ID value of 0 is reserved for UDP payloads, while non-zero
values are dynamically allocated. Non-zero even-numbered Context IDs are client-allocated, and
odd-numbered Context IDs are proxy-allocated. The Context ID namespace is tied to a given
HTTP request; it is possible for a Context ID with the same numeric value to be simultaneously
 be re-
allocated in distinct requests, potentially with different semantics. Context IDs
allocated within a given HTTP namespace but
MAY
allocation restrictions to the use of even-numbered and odd-numbered Context IDs exist in order
to avoid the need for synchronization between endpoints. However, once a Context ID has been
allocated, those restrictions do not apply to the use of the Context ID; it can be used by any client
or UDP proxy, independent of which endpoint initially allocated it.

 be allocated in any order. The Context ID

MUST NOT

Registration is the action by which an endpoint informs its peer of the semantics and format of a
given Context ID. This document does not define how registration occurs. Future extensions
MAY
use HTTP header fields or capsules to register Context IDs. Depending on the method being used,
it is possible for datagrams to be received with Context IDs that have not yet been registered. For
instance, this can be due to reordering of the packet containing the datagram and the packet
containing the registration message during transmission.

5.  HTTP Datagram Payload Format

Section 2 of [HTTP-DGRAM]

When HTTP Datagrams (see
) are associated with UDP Proxying
request streams, the HTTP Datagram Payload field has the format defined in Figure 7, using
notation from
DATAGRAM frames
Quarter Stream ID field, which is at the start of the QUIC DATAGRAM frame payload; see
2.1 of [HTTP-DGRAM]
.

. Note that when HTTP Datagrams are encoded using QUIC
, the Context ID field defined below directly follows the

Section 1.3 of [QUIC]
[QUIC-DGRAM]

Section

UDP Proxying HTTP Datagram Payload {
  Context ID (i),
  UDP Proxying Payload (..),
}

Figure 7: UDP Proxying HTTP Datagram Format

Schinazi

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9298

Proxying UDP in HTTP

August 2022

Context ID:

A variable-length integer (see

Section 16 of [QUIC]

) that contains the value of the

Context ID. If an HTTP/3 Datagram that carries an unknown Context ID is received, the
receiver
round trip) while awaiting the registration of the corresponding Context ID.

 either drop that datagram silently or buffer it temporarily (on the order of a

SHALL

UDP Proxying Payload:

The payload of the datagram, whose semantics depend on the value of

the previous field. Note that this field can be empty.

UDP packets are encoded using HTTP Datagrams with the Context ID field set to zero. When the
Context ID field is set to zero, the UDP Proxying Payload field contains the unmodified payload of
).
a UDP packet (referred to as data octets in

[UDP]

[UDP]

MUST NOT

, it is not possible to encode UDP payloads

By virtue of the definition of the UDP header
longer than 65527 bytes. Therefore, endpoints
Proxying Payload field longer than 65527 using Context ID zero. An endpoint that receives an
HTTP Datagram using Context ID zero whose UDP Proxying Payload field is longer than 65527
MUST
a certain length due to its underlying link MTU, it has no choice but to discard incoming HTTP
Datagrams using Context ID zero whose UDP Proxying Payload field is longer than that limit. If
the discarded HTTP Datagram was transported by a DATAGRAM capsule, the receiver
SHOULD
discard that capsule without buffering the capsule contents.

 abort the corresponding stream. If a UDP proxy knows it can only send out UDP packets of

 send HTTP Datagrams with a UDP

If a UDP proxy receives an HTTP Datagram before it has received the corresponding request, it
 either drop that HTTP Datagram silently or buffer it temporarily (on the order of a round
SHALL
trip) while awaiting the corresponding request.

Note that buffering datagrams (either because the request was not yet received or because the
Context ID is not yet known) consumes resources. Receivers that buffer datagrams
SHOULD
buffering limits in order to reduce the risk of resource exhaustion occurring. For example,
receivers can limit the total number of buffered datagrams or the cumulative size of buffered
datagrams on a per-stream, per-context, or per-connection basis.

 apply

MAY

 optimistically start sending UDP packets in HTTP Datagrams before receiving the

A client
response to its UDP proxying request. However, implementers should note that such proxied
packets may not be processed by the UDP proxy if it responds to the request with a failure or if
the proxied packets are received by the UDP proxy before the request and the UDP proxy chooses
to not buffer them.

6.  Performance Considerations

Bursty traffic can often lead to temporally correlated packet losses; in turn, this can lead to
suboptimal responses from congestion controllers in protocols running over UDP. To avoid this,
UDP proxies
queue packets in order to increase batching.

 strive to avoid increasing burstiness of UDP traffic; they

SHOULD NOT

SHOULD

Schinazi

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9298

Proxying UDP in HTTP

August 2022

When the protocol running over UDP that is being proxied uses congestion control (e.g.,
the proxied traffic will incur at least two nested congestion controllers. The underlying HTTP
connection
 disable congestion control unless it has an out-of-band way of knowing
with absolute certainty that the inner traffic is congestion-controlled.

MUST NOT

[QUIC]

),

If a client or UDP proxy with a connection containing a UDP Proxying request stream disables
 support on
congestion control, it
that connection. That is, it
MAY
to report ECN feedback via QUIC ACK_ECN frames or the TCP ECE bit, as the peer may not have
disabled congestion control.

[ECN]
 signal Explicit Congestion Notification (ECN)
 mark all IP headers with the Not-ECT codepoint. It

MUST NOT

MUST

 continue

When the protocol running over UDP that is being proxied uses loss recovery (e.g.,
), and
the underlying HTTP connection runs over TCP, the proxied traffic will incur at least two nested
loss recovery mechanisms. This can reduce performance as both can sometimes independently
retransmit the same data. To avoid this, UDP proxying
allow leveraging the QUIC DATAGRAM frame.

 be performed over HTTP/3 to

SHOULD

[QUIC]

6.1.  MTU Considerations

[QUIC-DGRAM]

When using HTTP/3 with the QUIC Datagram extension
transmitted in QUIC DATAGRAM frames. Since those cannot be fragmented, they can only carry
payloads up to a given length determined by the QUIC connection configuration and the Path
MTU (PMTU). If a UDP proxy is using QUIC DATAGRAM frames and it receives a UDP payload
from the target that will not fit inside a QUIC DATAGRAM frame, the UDP proxy
SHOULD NOT
send the UDP payload in a DATAGRAM capsule, as that defeats the end-to-end unreliability
characteristic that methods such as Datagram Packetization Layer PMTU Discovery (DPLPMTUD)
depend on
 drop the UDP payload and send
an ICMP Packet Too Big message to the target; see

SHOULD
Section 3.2 of [ICMP6]
.

. In this scenario, the UDP proxy

, UDP payloads are

[DPLPMTUD]

6.2.  Tunneling of ECN Marks

UDP proxying does not create an IP-in-IP tunnel, so the guidance in
transferring ECN marks between inner and outer IP headers does not apply. There is no inner IP
header in UDP proxying tunnels.

[ECN-TUNNEL]

 about

In this specification, note that UDP proxying clients do not have the ability to control the ECN
codepoints on UDP packets the UDP proxy sends to the target, nor can UDP proxies communicate
the markings of each UDP packet from target to UDP proxy.

MUST

A UDP proxy
it
the ECN markings of packets sent between client and UDP proxy in any way.

 set the ECN bits to Not-ECT on UDP packets it sends to the target. These do not relate to

 ignore ECN bits in the IP header of UDP packets received from the target, and

MUST

Schinazi

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9298

Proxying UDP in HTTP

August 2022

7.  Security Considerations

There are significant risks in allowing arbitrary clients to establish a tunnel to arbitrary targets,
as that could allow bad actors to send traffic and have it attributed to the UDP proxy. HTTP
servers that support UDP proxying ought to restrict its use to authenticated users.

There exist software and network deployments that perform access control checks based on the
source IP address of incoming requests. For example, some software allows unauthenticated
configuration changes if they originated from 127.0.0.1. Such software could be running on the
same host as the UDP proxy or in the same broadcast domain. Proxied UDP traffic would then be
received with a source IP address belonging to the UDP proxy. If this source address is used for
access control, UDP proxying clients could use the UDP proxy to escalate their access privileges
beyond those they might otherwise have. This could lead to unauthorized access by UDP
proxying clients unless the UDP proxy disallows UDP proxying requests to vulnerable targets,
such as the UDP proxy's own addresses and localhost, link-local, multicast, and broadcast
addresses. UDP proxies can use the destination_ip_prohibited Proxy Error Type from
2.3.5 of [PROXY-STATUS]

 when rejecting such requests.

Section

UDP proxies share many similarities with TCP CONNECT proxies when considering them as
infrastructure for abuse to enable denial-of-service (DoS) attacks. Both can obfuscate the
attacker's source address from the attack target. In the case of a stateless volumetric attack (e.g.,
a TCP SYN flood or a UDP flood), both types of proxies pass the traffic to the target host. With
stateful volumetric attacks (e.g., HTTP flooding) being sent over a TCP CONNECT proxy, the proxy
will only send data if the target has indicated its willingness to accept data by responding with a
TCP SYN-ACK. Once the path to the target is flooded, the TCP CONNECT proxy will no longer
receive replies from the target and will stop sending data. Since UDP does not establish shared
state between the UDP proxy and the target, the UDP proxy could continue sending data to the
target in such a situation. While a UDP proxy could potentially limit the number of UDP packets it
is willing to forward until it has observed a response from the target, that provides limited
protection against DoS attacks when attacks target open UDP ports where the protocol running
over UDP would respond and that would be interpreted as willingness to accept UDP by the UDP
proxy. Such a packet limit could also cause issues for valid traffic.

The security considerations described in
possible to tunnel IP packets over UDP, the guidance in

Section 4 of [HTTP-DGRAM]

[TUNNEL-SECURITY]

 also apply here. Since it is
 can apply.

8.  IANA Considerations

8.1.  HTTP Upgrade Token

IANA has registered "connect-udp" in the "HTTP Upgrade Tokens" registry maintained at <
www.iana.org/assignments/http-upgrade-tokens

>.

https://

Value:

connect-udp

Schinazi

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9298

Proxying UDP in HTTP

August 2022

Description:

Proxying of UDP Payloads

Expected Version Tokens:

None

Reference:

RFC 9298

8.2.  Well-Known URI

IANA has registered "masque" in the "Well-Known URIs" registry maintained at <
www.iana.org/assignments/well-known-uris

>.

https://

URI Suffix:

masque

Change Controller:

IETF

Reference:

RFC 9298

Status:

permanent

Related Information:
masque/udp/"

9.  References

Includes all resources identified with the path prefix "/.well-known/

9.1.  Normative References

[ABNF]

[ECN]

Crocker, D., Ed.
ABNF" RFC 2234 DOI 10.17487/RFC2234
,
editor.org/info/rfc2234>

 and
,

,

.

P. Overell "Augmented BNF for Syntax Specifications:

, November 1997,

<https://www.rfc-

Ramakrishnan, K. Floyd, S.
Notification (ECN) to IP" RFC 3168 DOI 10.17487/RFC3168
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3168>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

D. Black "The Addition of Explicit Congestion

, September 2001,

[EXT-CONNECT2]

McManus, P. "Bootstrapping WebSockets with HTTP/2" RFC 8441 DOI

,

,

, September 2018,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8441>

.

[EXT-CONNECT3]

Hamilton, R. "Bootstrapping WebSockets with HTTP/3" RFC 9220 DOI

,

,

, June 2022,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9220>

.

,
10.17487/RFC8441

,
10.17487/RFC9220

[HTTP]

[HTTP-DGRAM]

,

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
97 RFC 9110 DOI 10.17487/RFC9110
rfc9110>

,

,

.

, and
, June 2022,

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP Semantics" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

 and

Schinazi, D.

,
9297 DOI 10.17487/RFC9297
, August 2022,
,
rfc9297>

.

L. Pardue "HTTP Datagrams and the Capsule Protocol" RFC

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

Schinazi

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9298

Proxying UDP in HTTP

August 2022

[HTTP/1.1]

[HTTP/2]

[HTTP/3]

,

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
9112 DOI 10.17487/RFC9112
,
rfc9112>

.

, June 2022,

, and

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP/1.1" STD 99 RFC

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

Thomson, M., Ed.
RFC9113

, June 2022,

 and

C. Benfield, Ed. "HTTP/2" RFC 9113 DOI 10.17487/
,

,

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9113>

.

Bishop, M., Ed. "HTTP/3" RFC 9114 DOI 10.17487/RFC9114
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9114>

,

,

,

.

, June 2022,

<https://

[PROXY-STATUS]

Nottingham, M.

 and

P. Sikora "The Proxy-Status HTTP Response Header

,

Field" RFC 9209 DOI 10.17487/RFC9209
,
info/rfc9209>

,

.

, June 2022,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

[QUIC]

[QUIC-DGRAM]

[RFC2119]

[RFC8174]

[TCP]

[TEMPLATE]

[UDP]

[URI]

Iyengar, J., Ed.
Secure Transport" RFC 9000 DOI 10.17487/RFC9000
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9000>

 and
,

,

.

M. Thomson, Ed. "QUIC: A UDP-Based Multiplexed and

,

, May 2021,

<https://

,

Pauly, T. Kinnear, E.

,
QUIC" RFC 9221 DOI 10.17487/RFC9221
editor.org/info/rfc9221>

, and

,

,

.

D. Schinazi "An Unreliable Datagram Extension to

, March 2022,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Eddy, W., Ed. "Transmission Control Protocol (TCP)" STD 7 RFC 9293 DOI
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9293>
10.17487/RFC9293
.

, August 2022,

,

,

,

Gregorio, J. Fielding, R. Hadley, M. Nottingham, M.
Template" RFC 6570 DOI 10.17487/RFC6570
,
editor.org/info/rfc6570>

, and
, March 2012,

,
,

,

,

.

D. Orchard "URI
<https://www.rfc-

,

,

Postel, J. "User Datagram Protocol" STD 6 RFC 768 DOI 10.17487/RFC0768
August 1980,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc768>

,

,

,

.

,

,

Berners-Lee, T. Fielding, R.
, and
Generic Syntax" STD 66 RFC 3986 DOI 10.17487/RFC3986
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3986>

.

,

,

,

,

L. Masinter "Uniform Resource Identifier (URI):

, January 2005,

9.2.  Informative References

[BEHAVE]

 and

Audet, F., Ed.
Requirements for Unicast UDP" BCP 127 RFC 4787 DOI 10.17487/RFC4787
January 2007,

C. Jennings "Network Address Translation (NAT) Behavioral

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4787>

,

,

,

,

,

.

Schinazi

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9298

Proxying UDP in HTTP

August 2022

[DPLPMTUD]

[ECN-TUNNEL]

[HELIUM]

[HiNT]

[ICMP6]

,

Fairhurst, G. Jones, T. Tüxen, M. Rüngeler, I.
,
Layer Path MTU Discovery for Datagram Transports" RFC 8899 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8899

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8899>

T. Völker "Packetization

, September 2020,

, and

,

,

,

,

.

Briscoe, B. "Tunnelling of Explicit Congestion Notification" RFC 6040 DOI

,

,

,

10.17487/RFC6040

, November 2010,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6040>

.

,

Schwartz, B. M. "Hybrid Encapsulation Layer for IP and UDP Messages
(HELIUM)" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-schwartz-httpbis-helium-00
25 June 2018,
helium-00>

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-schwartz-httpbis-

,

,

.

,

,

Pardue, L. "HTTP-initiated Network Tunnelling (HiNT)" Work in Progress
Internet-Draft, draft-pardue-httpbis-http-network-tunnelling-00
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-pardue-httpbis-http-network-
tunnelling-00>

,

.

, 2 July 2018,

,

, and

Conta, A. Deering, S.
,
(ICMPv6) for the Internet Protocol Version 6 (IPv6) Specification" STD 89 RFC
4443 DOI 10.17487/RFC4443
,
rfc4443>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

M. Gupta, Ed. "Internet Control Message Protocol

, March 2006,

,

,

.

[MASQUE-ORIGINAL]

Schinazi, D. "The MASQUE Protocol" Work in Progress Internet-Draft,

,
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/
, 28 February 2019,

,

,

draft-schinazi-masque-00
html/draft-schinazi-masque-00>

.

[TUNNEL-SECURITY]

Krishnan, S. Thaler, D.

,

, and

Tunneling" RFC 6169 DOI 10.17487/RFC6169
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc6169>

.

J. Hoagland "Security Concerns with IP
<https://www.rfc-

, April 2011,

,

[UDP-USAGE]

[WEBSOCKET]

,

Eggert, L. Fairhurst, G.
, and
8085 DOI 10.17487/RFC8085
,
rfc8085>

.

G. Shepherd "UDP Usage Guidelines" BCP 145 RFC
,
, March 2017,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

Fette, I.
RFC6455

 and
,
, December 2011,

A. Melnikov "The WebSocket Protocol" RFC 6455 DOI 10.17487/

,

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6455>

.

Acknowledgments

This document is a product of the MASQUE Working Group, and the author thanks all MASQUE
enthusiasts for their contributions. This proposal was inspired directly or indirectly by prior
work from many people, in particular
the original MASQUE Protocol

Ben Schwartz [HiNT]
 by the author of this document.

 by
[MASQUE-ORIGINAL]

Lucas Pardue

[HELIUM]

 by

, and

,

The author would like to thank
UDP. The author is indebted to
they contributed to this document. The extensibility design in this document came out of the

 for suggesting the use of an HTTP method to proxy
 for the many improvements

Eric Rescorla
Mark Nottingham

Lucas Pardue

 and

Schinazi

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9298

Proxying UDP in HTTP

August 2022

,
HTTP Datagrams Design Team, whose members were
Schwartz Eric Rescorla Lucas Pardue Marcus Ihlar Martin Thomson Mike Bishop Tommy
,
,
Pauly Victor Vasiliev

,
, and the author of this document.

Alan Frindell Alex Chernyakhovsky Ben

,

,

,

,

,

Author's Address

David Schinazi
Google LLC
1600 Amphitheatre Parkway
Mountain View CA 94043
United States of America
Email:

,

 dschinazi.ietf@gmail.com

Schinazi

Standards Track

Page 16

