Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:
X. Xu
China Mobile

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9793
Standards Track
June 2025
2070-1721

M. Chen
Huawei

K. Patel
Arrcus, Inc.

IJ. Wijnands
Individual

T. Przygienda
Juniper

Z. Zhang, Ed.
Juniper

RFC 9793
BGP Extensions for Bit Index Explicit Replication
(BIER)

Abstract

Bit Index Explicit Replication (BIER) is a multicast forwarding architecture that doesn't require
an explicit tree-building protocol and doesn't require intermediate routers to maintain per-tree
multicast states. Some BIER-specific information and states, which are only in proportion to the
number of BIER routers but not per-tree, do need to be advertised, calculated, and maintained.
This document describes BGP extensions for advertising the BIER information and methods for
calculating BIER states based on the advertisements.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9793
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9793

BGP Extensions for BIER

June 2025

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

2.1.  Requirements Language

3.  BIER Path Attribute

3.1.  BIER MPLS Encapsulation Sub-TLV

3.2.  BIER Non-MPLS Encapsulation Sub-TLV

3.3.  BIER Nexthop Sub-TLV

4.  Originating/Propagating/Updating the BIER Attribute

5.  BIFT Calculation with BGP Signaling

6.  Example of BIER Nexthop Usage and Handling

7.  Operational Considerations

8.  IANA Considerations

9.  Security Considerations

10. References

10.1.  Normative References

10.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

2

3

3

3

5

6

7

7

8

9

9

10

11

11

11

11

12

12

12

Bit Index Explicit Replication (BIER)
doesn't require an explicit tree-building protocol and doesn't require intermediate routers to
maintain per-tree multicast states. It supports both direct and tunneled BIER forwarding. This
document describes BGP extensions for advertising the BIER information and methods for
calculating BIER states based on the advertisements. More specifically, in this document, we

 is a multicast forwarding architecture that

[RFC8279]

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9793

BGP Extensions for BIER

June 2025

define a new optional transitive BGP attribute, referred to as the "BIER attribute", to convey the
BIER-specific information such as Bit-Forwarding Router Identifier (BFR-ID), BitStringLength
(BSL), and so on. The signaling is to be used in a single Administrative Domain (AD), and Section
7 specifies procedures to prevent the BIER attribute from "leaking out" of the domain.

2.  Terminology

This document makes use of the terminology defined in
are listed below for convenience.

[RFC4271]

 and

[RFC8279]

. Some terms

BIER:

Bit Indexed Explicit Replication

BFR:

Bit-Forwarding Router

BFR-ID:

BFR Identifier

BSL:

BitStringLength

BIFT:

Bit Index Forwarding Table

BIFT-id:

Bit Index Forwarding Table Identifier

BFER:

Bit-Forwarding Egress Router

BFR-prefix:

Each BFR is assigned a single "BFR-prefix" for each sub-domain to which it belongs.

It is recommended that the BFR-prefix be a loopback address of the BFR.

NLRI:

Network Layer Reachability Information

[RFC4271]

AFI:

Address Family Identifier

[RFC4760]

SAFI:

Subsequent Address Family Identifier

[RFC4760]

2.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  BIER Path Attribute

This specification defines an optional, transitive BGP path attribute, referred to as the "BIER
attribute". This attribute can be attached to a BGP UPDATE message by the originator for NLRIs
of AFI 1 or 2 and SAFI 1, 2, or 4 to indicate the BIER-specific information of a particular BFR
identified by the /32 (for IPv4) or /128 (for IPv6) host address prefix contained in the NLRI. The
attachment of the BIER attribute to non-host address prefixes is not defined by this document. It
may be specified in the future, for example, by

[BIER-Prefix-Redistribute]
.

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9793

BGP Extensions for BIER

June 2025

If the BIER path attribute is present, the NLRI is referred to as a "BFR-prefix". Use of the attribute
with other AFIs/SAFIs is outside the scope of this document.

The BIER path attribute is an optional, transitive BGP path attribute with type code 41 and of
variable length. The attribute value portion carries BIER TLVs, which are encoded as follows:

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |              Type             |             Length            |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  ~                        Value (variable)                       ~
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

The Length field defines the length of the value portion in octets (thus, a TLV with no value
portion would have a length of zero). The TLV is not padded to 4-octet alignment. Unknown and
unsupported types
 be preserved and propagated within the BIER attribute. The presence
of unknown or unexpected TLVs
considered malformed.

 result in the NLRI or the BIER attribute being

MUST NOT

MUST

When creating a BIER attribute, a BFR
 include one BIER TLV for every sub-domain that the
prefix belongs to. The attribute type code for the BIER attribute is 41. The value field of the BIER
attribute contains one or more BIER TLVs as shown below:

MUST

    0                   1                   2                   3
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |           Type = 1            |            Length             |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |  Sub-domain   |            BFR-ID             |   Reserved    |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   ~                                                               ~
   |                           Sub-TLVs                            |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+..........................

Type:

1

Length:

2 octets encoding the length in octets of the Value part.

Sub-domain:
[RFC8279]

).

A 1-octet field encoding the sub-domain ID corresponding to the BFR-ID (see

BFR-ID:

A 2-octet field encoding the BFR-ID (see

[RFC8279]

).

Reserved:

SHOULD

 be set to 0 on transmission and

MUST

 be ignored on reception.

Sub-TLVs:

Contains one or more sub-TLVs.

MAY

The BIER TLV
There
entire BIER path attribute

MUST

MUST

 be ignored.

 appear multiple times in the BIER path attribute, one for each sub-domain.

 be no more than one BIER TLV with the same Sub-domain value; if there is, the

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9793

BGP Extensions for BIER

June 2025

A BIER TLV may have sub-TLVs, which may have their own sub-TLVs. All those are referred to as
sub-TLVs and share the same Type space, regardless of the level.

3.1.  BIER MPLS Encapsulation Sub-TLV

The BIER MPLS Encapsulation sub-TLV has the following format. It
the BIER TLV.

MAY

 appear multiple times in

The BIER MPLS Encapsulation sub-TLV has the following format:

    0                   1                   2                   3
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |           Type = 2            |             Length            |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |     Max SI    |BS Len |             Label                     |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   ~                        sub-TLVs                               |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Type:

2

Length:

2 octets encoding the length in octets of the Value part. The value is 4 or other

(depending on sub-TLVs).

Max SI:

A 1-octet field encoding the Maximum Set Identifier (see
in the encapsulation for this BIER sub-domain for this BitString length.

Section 1 of [RFC8279]

) used

BS Len:

BitString Length. A 4-bit field encoding the supported BitString length associated with

this BFR-prefix. The values allowed in this field are specified in

Section 2 of [RFC8296]

.

Label:

A 20-bit value representing the first label in the label range.

The "label range" is the set of labels beginning with the Label and ending with (Label + (Max SI)).
A unique label range is allocated for each BitString length and sub-domain-id. These labels are
[RFC8279]
used for BIER forwarding, as described in

[RFC8296]
.

 and

The size of the label range is determined by the number of SIs (
) that are
used in the network. Each SI maps to a single label in the label range: the first label is for SI=0,
the second label is for SI=1, etc.

Section 1 of [RFC8279]

If the label associated with the Maximum SI exceeds the 20-bit range, the BIER MPLS
Encapsulation sub-TLV containing the error

 be ignored.

MUST

If the same BitString length is repeated in multiple BIER MPLS Encapsulation sub-TLVs inside the
same BIER TLV, all BIER MPLS Encapsulation sub-TLVs in the BIER TLV

 be ignored.

MUST

Label ranges within all BIER MPLS Encapsulation sub-TLVs advertised by the same BFR
NOT
BFR

 overlap. If an overlap is detected, all BIER MPLS Encapsulation sub-TLVs advertised by the
MUST

 be ignored.

MUST

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9793

BGP Extensions for BIER

June 2025

3.2.  BIER Non-MPLS Encapsulation Sub-TLV

The BIER non-MPLS Encapsulation sub-TLV is used for non-MPLS encapsulation and has the
following format. It
length is repeated in multiple BIER non-MPLS Encapsulation sub-TLVs inside the same BIER TLV,
the BIER TLV

 appear multiple times within a single BIER TLV. If the same BitString

 be ignored.

MUST

MAY

    0                   1                   2                   3
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |           Type = 3            |             Length            |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |     Max SI    |BS Len |                  BIFT-id              |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   ~                        sub-TLVs                               |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Type:

3

Length:

2 octets encoding the length in octets of the Value part. The value is 4 or other

(depending on sub-TLVs).

Max SI:

A 1-octet field encoding the Maximum Set Identifier (

) used in
the encapsulation for this BIER sub-domain for this BitString length. The first BIFT-id is for
SI=0, the second BIFT-id is for SI=1, etc. If the BIFT-id associated with the Maximum SI
exceeds the 20-bit range, the sub-TLV

Section 1 of [RFC8279]

 be ignored.

MUST

BS Len:

BitString Length. A 4-bit field encoding the BitString length (as per

[RFC8296]
)

supported for the encapsulation.

BIFT-id:

A 20-bit field representing the first BIFT-id in the BIFT-id range.

The "BIFT-id range" is the set of 20-bit values beginning with the BIFT-id and ending with (BIFT-
id + (Max SI)). These BIFT-ids are used for BIER forwarding, as described in
[RFC8296]
.

[RFC8279]

 and

) that are
The size of the BIFT-id range is determined by the number of SIs (
used in the network. Each SI maps to a single BIFT-id in the BIFT-id range: the first BIFT-id is for
SI=0, the second BIFT-id is for SI=1, etc.

Section 1 of [RFC8279]

If the BIFT-id associated with the Maximum SI exceeds the 20-bit range, the BIER non-MPLS
Encapsulation sub-TLV containing the error

 be ignored.

MUST

 overlap. If an overlap is detected, all the BIER non-MPLS Encapsulation sub-TLVs

BIFT-id ranges within all the BIER non-MPLS Encapsulation sub-TLVs advertised by the same BFR
MUST NOT
advertised by the BFR
different encapsulation types and that is allowed. As an example, the BIFT-id value in the non-
MPLS Encapsulation sub-TLV may overlap with the Label value in the Label range in the BIER
MPLS Encapsulation sub-TLV.

 be ignored. However, the BIFT-id ranges may overlap across

MUST

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9793

BGP Extensions for BIER

June 2025

3.3.  BIER Nexthop Sub-TLV

The BIER Nexthop sub-TLV
 be included more than once in
each of the MPLS or non-MPLS Encapsulation sub-TLVs or in the top-level BIER TLV. It is used
when calculating BIFT entries, as described in Section 5 and illustrated in Section 6.

 be included, and it

MUST NOT

MAY

    0                   1                   2                   3
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |            Type = 4           |             Length            |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                            Nexthop                            |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Type:

4

Length:

2 octets. The value is 4 if the Nexthop is an IPv4 address and 16 if the Nexthop is an

IPv6 address.

Nexthop:

4 or 16 octets of an IPv4/IPv6 address.

4.  Originating/Propagating/Updating the BIER Attribute

MUST

A Bit-Forwarding Egress Router (BFER)
128 (for IPv6) host BFR-prefix NLRI. The BIER attribute
BIER sub-domain that it supports. Each BIER TLV
MUST
Encapsulation sub-TLV and
BIER prefix. If the BIER Nexthop sub-TLV is not included, the BIER prefix will be used by
receiving BFRs as the BIER next hop when calculating BIFT.

MUST
 include an MPLS and/or non-MPLS

 include a BIER Nexthop sub-TLV with the Nexthop set to the

 include one BIER TLV for each

 attach a BIER attribute to its own /32 (for IPv4) or /

MAY

When a BFR receives an update with the BIER path attribute, the attribute is parsed with the
following validations:

•

Syntactic checking based on the Length field of TLVs and sub-TLVs:

◦
The total length of BIER TLVs (including the Type and Length fields)
BIER path attribute length.
◦
The total length of sub-TLVs (including the Type and Length fields) of a TLV
to the length of the TLV.

MUST

 be equal to the

MUST

 be equal

•

Semantic checking as per Section 3.

[RFC7606]

 for the BIER attribute

If the syntactic checking fails, the attribute is considered malformed and the "attribute discard"
action
entries are calculated as described in Section 5. Otherwise (i.e., if semantic checking fails), some
or all BIER TLVs are ignored, per the rules given in Section 3, and if the remaining data permits,
BIFT entries are calculated per Section 5.

 be taken. If the semantic checking passes, BIFT

MUST

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9793

BGP Extensions for BIER

June 2025

When a BFR re-advertises a BGP NLRI with a BIER attribute, for the sub-domains that this BFR
supports, in the corresponding BIER TLV, it
SHOULD
 replace the MPLS or non-MPLS Encapsulation sub-
its own BIER prefix; in which case, it
MUST
TLV with its own, i.e., as if the BFR is attaching the encapsulation sub-TLV for its own BIER
prefix. If it does not update the BIER Nexthop sub-TLVs, it
MUST NOT
MPLS Encapsulation sub-TLV. If it does not support a sub-domain, it
corresponding BIER TLV.

 update the MPLS or non-
MUST NOT

 set/update the BIER Nexthop sub-TLV to use

 update the

It's possible that the BFR supports some but not all BitStringLengths (BSLs) in the received MPLS
or non-MPLS Encapsulation sub-TLVs. After setting/updating the BIER Nexthop sub-TLV in the
top BIER TLV to itself, for the BSLs that it does support, the BFR
 remove the BIER Nexthop
sub-TLV (if present) in the corresponding Encapsulation sub-TLVs. For the BSLs that it does not
support:

MUST

•

If a BIER Nexthop sub-TLV is included in the Encapsulation sub-TLV, it

MUST NOT

 be updated.

•

Otherwise, if a BIER Nexthop sub-TLV is included in the received BIER TLV, its original value
(before changed for supported BSLs by this BFR)
 be copied into the Encapsulation sub-
TLV.

MUST

•

Otherwise, a BIER Nexthop sub-TLV
value set to the BFR-prefix.

MUST

 be added to the Encapsulation sub-TLV with its

All impacted Length fields (e.g., the Encapsulation sub-TLV Length and the top-level BIER TLV
Length)

 be updated accordingly.

MUST

Since the BIER attribute is an optional, transitive BGP path attribute, a non-BFR BGP speaker
could still re-advertise the received route with a BIER attribute.

Two different BFR-prefixes
a duplication is detected, the receiving BFR
MUST NOT
for BIFT calculation for the sub-domain and an error

 have the same non-zero BFR-ID in the same sub-domain. If
 use the BFR-prefixes with the same BFR-ID
SHOULD

 be logged.

MUST NOT

5.  BIFT Calculation with BGP Signaling

As pointed out in
information.

[RFC8279]

, BIFTs are derived from the unicast FIB by adding BIER-specific

For each sub-domain, a BFR calculates the corresponding BIFTs by going through the BIER
prefixes whose BIER attribute includes a BIER TLV for the sub-domain. For a non-zero BFR-id in
[RFC8279]
the BIER TLV, a BIFT entry is created or updated. The entry's BFR Neighbor (BFR-NBR)
is the Nexthop in the BIER Nexthop sub-TLV in the corresponding Encapsulation sub-TLV or in
the top-level BIER TLV if the Encapsulation sub-TLV does not have a BIER Nexthop sub-TLV. If
there is no BIER Nexthop sub-TLV at all, the entry's BFR-NBR is the BIER prefix itself. The BIER
label or BIFT-id for the entry is derived from the label range in the MPLS Encapsulation sub-TLV
or from the BIFT-id range in the non-MPLS Encapsulation sub-TLV.

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9793

BGP Extensions for BIER

June 2025

BIER traffic is sent to the BFR-NBR either directly (BIER header directly follows a Layer 2 header)
if the BFR-NBR is directly connected or via a tunnel. Notice that, if a non-BFR BGP speaker re-
advertises a BIER prefix (in this case, it cannot update the BIER attribute since it is not capable),
or if a BFR BGP speaker re-advertises a BIER prefix without updating the BIER Nexthop sub-TLV,
the BFR receiving the prefix will tunnel BIER traffic -- the BGP speaker re-advertising the BIER
prefix will not see the BIER traffic for the BIER prefix.

How the tunnel is set up and chosen is outside the scope of this document. It can be any kind of
tunnel, e.g., MPLS Label Switched Path or IP/GRE, as long as the tunnel header can indicate that
the payload is BIER.

6.  Example of BIER Nexthop Usage and Handling

Consider a simple topology as follows:

                                      ----- BFER1
                                     /
           BFR1 --- non-BFR --- BFR2 ------ BFER2
                                     \
                                      ----- BFER3

The BFER1/2/3 each advertises a route for its loopback address with a BIER path attribute, listing
one BIER TLV for each sub-domain that it is in, with a non-zero BFR-ID and an MPLS
Encapsulation sub-TLV. A BIER Nexthop sub-TLV is not included in the one from BFER1 but is
included in the ones from BFER2/3. The BIER Nexthop sub-TLV encodes the BFR-prefix of BFER2
and BFER3, respectively.

When BFR2 receives the route, it calculates its BIFT entries. Because the route from BFER1 does
not include a BIER Nexthop, BFR2 uses BFR1's BFR-prefix as the next hop.

When BFR2 re-advertises the routes to the non-BFR, it adds a BIER Nexthop sub-TLV to the
BFER1 route and updates the BIER Nexthop sub-TLV in the BFER2/3 routes, all encoding BFR2's
own address. It also updates the MPLS Encapsulation sub-TLV to encode its own labels.

When the non-BFR receives the routes, since it does not support BIER, no BIER-specific action is
taken and the routes are re-advertised to BFR1 with the BIER path attribute unchanged.

When BFR1 receives the routes, it calculates the BIFT entries, using BFR2's address encoded in
the BIER Nexthop sub-TLV as the next hop. Because BFR2 is not directly connected, a tunnel
must be used.

7.  Operational Considerations

In this document, it is assumed that the BIER domain
Administrative Domain (AD), which may be composed of multiple Autonomous Systems. Use of
the BIER attribute in other scenarios is outside the scope of this document.

 is aligned with an

[RFC8279]

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9793

BGP Extensions for BIER

June 2025

BFR-prefixes are typically loopback addresses on the BFRs. They are distributed throughout the
AD, but they do not need to be distributed outside the AD for the BIER's purposes. This is
analogous to the Provider Edge router's loopback addresses that are distributed inside the AD,
but they do not need to be distributed outside the AD.

If prefixes are distributed outside of the AD with the BIER attribute attached and the
neighboring AD also deploying BIER, then the two BIER domains, which should be independent
of each other, may be incorrectly joined together and most likely have conflicting configurations,
causing security risks and operational troubles.

To prevent that, a boundary router of the AD that supports the BIER attribute
 support a
policy based on an External BGP (EBGP) session/group that indicates whether the attribute is
allowed; by default, it is NOT allowed. If it is not allowed, the BIER attribute
any EBGP peer of the session/group. If a BIER attribute is received from the peer, it
treated exactly as if it were an unrecognized non-transitive attribute. That is, it
ignored and not passed along to other BGP peers.

 be sent to
 be
 be quietly

MUST NOT

MUST

MUST

MUST

8.  IANA Considerations

IANA has assigned codepoint 41 to the BIER attribute in the "BGP Path Attributes" registry
<https://www.iana.org/assignments/bgp-parameters>

 as follows:

Value

Code

Reference

41

BIER

RFC 9793

Table 1

IANA has created the "BGP BIER TLV and Sub-TLV Types" registry within the "Border Gateway
Protocol (BGP) Parameters" registry group. The type field for the registry consists of 2 octets,
with possible values from 0 to 65535 (the value 0 is reserved). The allocation policy for this field
is First Come First Served

[RFC8126]
.

The five initial values have been allocated as follows:

Value

Name

Reference

RFC 9793

RFC 9793

Reserved

BIER TLV

0

1

2

3

4

MPLS Encapsulation sub-TLV

RFC 9793

non-MPLS Encapsulation sub-TLV

RFC 9793

BIER Nexthop sub-TLV

RFC 9793

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9793

BGP Extensions for BIER

June 2025

Value

Name

Reference

5-65535

Unassigned

Table 2

9.  Security Considerations

This document introduces no new security considerations beyond those already discussed in
[RFC4271] [RFC8279]
,

, and the operational considerations (Section 7) of this document.

10.  References

10.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC4271]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8279]

[RFC8296]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Rekhter, Y., Ed. Li, T., Ed.
(BGP-4)" RFC 4271 DOI 10.17487/RFC4271
editor.org/info/rfc4271>

, and

,

,

.

,
, January 2006,

S. Hares, Ed. "A Border Gateway Protocol 4

<https://www.rfc-

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Wijnands, IJ., Ed. Rosen, E., Ed. Dolganow, A. Przygienda, T.
"Multicast Using Bit Index Explicit Replication (BIER)" RFC 8279 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8279

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8279>

, November 2017,

, and
,

S. Aldrin

,

,

,

,

.

,

,

Wijnands, IJ., Ed. Rosen, E., Ed. Dolganow, A. Tantsura, J. Aldrin, S.
Meilik "Encapsulation for Bit Index Explicit Replication (BIER) in MPLS and
Non-MPLS Networks" RFC 8296 DOI 10.17487/RFC8296
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8296>

, January 2018,

, and

I.

,

,

,

,

.

<https://

10.2.  Informative References

[BIER-Prefix-Redistribute]

,

Zhang, Z. Wu, B. Zhang, Z. J. Wijnands, I. Liu, Y.
"BIER Prefix Redistribute" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-bier-
prefix-redistribute-08
draft-ietf-bier-prefix-redistribute-08>

, 23 February 2025,

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/

H. Bidgoli

, and

,

,

.

,

,

,

,

[RFC4760]

,

Bates, T. Chandra, R. Katz, D.
,
BGP-4" RFC 4760 DOI 10.17487/RFC4760
editor.org/info/rfc4760>

, and

,

,

.

Y. Rekhter "Multiprotocol Extensions for

,

, January 2007,

<https://www.rfc-

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9793

BGP Extensions for BIER

June 2025

[RFC7606]

[RFC8126]

,

K. Patel "Revised Error
, and
Chen, E., Ed. Scudder, J., Ed. Mohapatra, P.
Handling for BGP UPDATE Messages" RFC 7606 DOI 10.17487/RFC7606
,
2015,
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7606>

,

,

,

, August

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

.

,

,

, June

Acknowledgements

Thanks to

Eric Rosen

 and

Peter Psenak

 for their valuable comments on this document.

Contributors

This document has the following contributor:

Zheng (Sandy) Zhang
ZTE
Email:

zhang.zheng@zte.com.cn

Authors' Addresses

Xiaohu Xu
China Mobile
Email:

xuxiaohu@cmss.chinamobile.com

Mach(Guoyi) Chen
Huawei
Email:

mach.chen@huawei.com

Keyur Patel
Arrcus, Inc.
Email:

keyur@arrcus.com

IJsbrand Wijnands
Individual
Email:

ice@braindump.be

Tony Przygienda
Juniper
Email:

prz@juniper.net

Zhaohui Zhang (
Juniper
Email:

zzhang@juniper.net

editor
)

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

