Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9527
Standards Track
January 2024
2070-1721
D. Migault
Ericsson

T. Mrugalski
ISC

R. Weber
Akamai

RFC 9527
DHCPv6 Options for the Homenet Naming Authority

Abstract

This document defines DHCPv6 options so that a Homenet Naming Authority (HNA) can
automatically set the appropriate configuration and outsource the authoritative naming service
for the home network. In most cases, the outsourcing mechanism is transparent for the end user.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9527
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Migault, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9527

DHCPv6 Options for the HNA

January 2024

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  Procedure Overview

4.  DHCPv6 Options

4.1.  Registered Homenet Domain Option

4.2.  Forward Distribution Manager Option

4.3.  Reverse Distribution Manager Server Option

4.4.  Supported Transport

5.  DHCPv6 Behavior

5.1.  DHCPv6 Server Behavior

5.2.  DHCPv6 Client Behavior

5.3.  DHCPv6 Relay Agent Behavior

6.  IANA Considerations

6.1.  DHCPv6 Option Codes

6.2.  Supported Transport Parameter

7.  Security Considerations

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

8.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Scenarios and Impact on the End User

A.1.  Base Scenario

A.2.  Third-Party Registered Homenet Domain

A.3.  Third-Party DNS Infrastructure

A.4.  Multiple ISPs

Acknowledgments

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

3

3

3

4

4

5

6

7

7

7

7

7

8

8

8

9

9

9

10

10

10

11

11

12

12

12

13

Migault, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9527

DHCPv6 Options for the HNA

January 2024

1.  Introduction

[RFC9526]
outsources a Public Homenet Zone to a DNS Outsourcing Infrastructure (DOI).

 specifies how an entity designated as the Homenet Naming Authority (HNA)

This document describes how a network can provision the HNA with a specific DOI. This could be
particularly useful for a DOI partly managed by an ISP or to make home networks resilient to
HNA replacement. The ISP delegates an IP prefix and the associated reverse zone to the home
network. The ISP is thus aware of the owner of that IP prefix and, as such, becomes a natural
candidate for hosting the Homenet Reverse Zone -- that is, the Reverse Distribution Manager
(RDM) and potentially the Reverse Public Authoritative Servers.

In addition, ISPs often identify the line of the home network with a name. Such name is used for
their internal network management operations and is not a name the home network owner has
registered to. ISPs may leverage such infrastructure and provide the home network with a
specific domain name designated per a Registered Homenet Domain
reverse zone, ISPs are aware of who owns that domain name and may become a natural
candidate for hosting the Homenet Zone -- that is, the Distribution Manager (DM) and the Public
Authoritative Servers.

. Similarly to the

[RFC9526]

This document describes DHCPv6 options that enable an ISP to provide the necessary parameters
to the HNA to proceed. More specifically, the ISP provides the Registered Homenet Domain and
the necessary information on the DM and the RDM so the HNA can manage and upload the
Public Homenet Zone and the Reverse Public Homenet Zone as described in

[RFC9526]
.

The use of DHCPv6 options may make the configuration completely transparent to the end user
and provides a similar level of trust as the one used to provide the IP prefix, when provisioned
via DHCP.

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

The reader should be familiar with

[RFC9526]
.

3.  Procedure Overview

This section illustrates how an HNA receives the necessary information via DHCPv6 options to
outsource its authoritative naming service to the DOI. For the sake of simplicity, and similarly to
[RFC9526]
, this section assumes that the HNA and the home network DHCPv6 client are colocated
on the Customer Premises Equipment (CPE) router
mandatory, and the DHCPv6 client may remotely instruct the HNA with a protocol that will be

. Also, note that this is not

[RFC7368]

Migault, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9527

DHCPv6 Options for the HNA

January 2024

standardized in the future. In addition, this section assumes that the responsible entity for the
DHCPv6 server is provisioned with the DM and RDM information, which is associated with the
requested Registered Homenet Domain. This means a Registered Homenet Domain can be
associated with the DHCPv6 client.

This scenario is believed to be the most popular scenario. This document does not ignore
scenarios where the DHCPv6 server does not have privileged relations with the DM or RDM.
These cases are discussed in Appendix A. Such scenarios do not necessarily require configuration
for the end user and can also be zero configuration.

The scenario considered in this section is as follows:

1.

The HNA is willing to outsource the Public Homenet Zone or Homenet Reverse Zone. The
DHCPv6 client is configured to include in its Option Request Option (ORO) the Registered
Homenet Domain Option (OPTION_REGISTERED_DOMAIN), the Forward Distribution
Manager Option (OPTION_FORWARD_DIST_MANAGER), and the Reverse Distribution
Manager Option (OPTION_REVERSE_DIST_MANAGER) option codes.

2.

The DHCPv6 server responds to the DHCPv6 client with the requested DHCPv6 options based
on the identified homenet. The DHCPv6 client passes the information to the HNA.

3.

The HNA is authenticated (see "Securing the Control Channel" (Section 6.6) of
the DM and the RDM. The HNA builds the Homenet Zone (or the Homenet Reverse Zone) and
proceeds as described in
. The DHCPv6 options provide the necessary non-optional
parameters described in Appendix B of
configurations with additional parameters via means not yet defined. Appendix B of
[RFC9526]
 describes such parameters that may take some specific non-default value.

. The HNA may complement the

[RFC9526]

[RFC9526]

[RFC9526]

) by

4.  DHCPv6 Options

This section details the payload of the DHCPv6 options following the guidelines of

[RFC7227]
.

4.1.  Registered Homenet Domain Option

The Registered Domain Option (OPTION_REGISTERED_DOMAIN) indicates the fully qualified
domain name (FQDN) associated with the home network.

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   OPTION_REGISTERED_DOMAIN    |         option-len            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                                                               |
/                   Registered Homenet Domain                   /
|                                                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 1: Registered Domain Option

Migault, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9527

DHCPv6 Options for the HNA

January 2024

option-code (16 bits):

OPTION_REGISTERED_DOMAIN; the option code for the Registered

Homenet Domain (145).

option-len (16 bits):

Length in octets of the Registered Homenet Domain field as described in

[RFC8415]

.

Registered Homenet Domain (variable):
Section 10 of [RFC8415]
.

described in

The FQDN registered for the homenet encoded as

4.2.  Forward Distribution Manager Option

The Forward Distribution Manager Option (OPTION_FORWARD_DIST_MANAGER) provides the
HNA with the FQDN of the DM as well as the transport protocols for the communication between
the HNA and the DM. As opposed to IP addresses, the FQDN requires a DNS resolution before
establishing the communication between the HNA and the DM. However, the use of an FQDN
provides multiple advantages over IP addresses. Firstly, it makes the DHCPv6 option easier to
parse and smaller, especially when IPv4 and IPv6 addresses are expected to be provided. Then,
the FQDN can reasonably be seen as a more stable identifier than IP addresses as well as a
pointer to additional information that may be useful, in the future, to establish the
communication between the HNA and the DM.

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|  OPTION_FORWARD_DIST_MANAGER  |          option-len           |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|     Supported Transport       |                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+                               |
|                                                               |
/                  Distribution Manager FQDN                    /
|                                                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 2: Forward Distribution Manager Option

option-code (16 bits):

OPTION_FORWARD_DIST_MANAGER; the option code for the Forward

Distribution Manager Option (146).

option-len (16 bits):

Length in octets of the enclosed data as described in

[RFC8415]

.

Supported Transport (16 bits):

Each bit represents a supported transport, and a DM
modes. The bit for DNS over mutually authenticated TLS (DomTLS)

MUST

 be set.

Defines the Supported Transport by the DM (see Section 4.4).
 indicate the support of multiple

MAY

Distribution Manager FQDN (variable):

The FQDN of the DM encoded as described in

Section 10

of [RFC8415]

.

Migault, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9527

DHCPv6 Options for the HNA

January 2024

It is worth noting that the DHCPv6 option specifies the Supported Transport without specifying
any explicit port. Unless the HNA and the DM have agreed on using a specific port -- for example,
by configuration, or any out-of-band mechanism -- the default port is used and must be specified.
The specification of such default port may be defined in the specification of the designated
Supported Transport or in any other document. In the case of DomTLS, the default port value is
853 per DNS over TLS

 and DNS Zone Transfer over TLS

[RFC9103]
.

[RFC7858]

The need to associate the port value to each Supported Transport in the DHCPv6 option has been
balanced with the difficulty of handling a list of tuples (transport, port) and the possibility of
using a dedicated IP address for the DM in case the default port is already in use.

4.3.  Reverse Distribution Manager Server Option

The Reverse Distribution Manager Option (OPTION_REVERSE_DIST_MANAGER) provides the
HNA with the FQDN of the DM as well as the transport protocols for the communication between
the HNA and the DM.

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| OPTION_REVERSE_DIST_MANAGER   |          option-len           |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|     Supported Transport       |                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+                               |
|                                                               |
/              Reverse Distribution Manager FQDN                /
|                                                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 3: Reverse Distribution Manager Option

option-code (16 bits):

OPTION_REVERSE_DIST_MANAGER; the option code for the Reverse

Distribution Manager Option (147).

option-len (16 bits):

Length in octets of the option-data field as described in

[RFC8415]

.

Supported Transport (16 bits):

Defines the Supported Transport by the RDM (see Section 4.4).

Each bit represents a supported transport, and an RDM
modes. The bit for DomTLS

[RFC7858] MUST

 be set.

MAY

 indicate the support of multiple

Reverse Distribution Manager FQDN (variable):

The FQDN of the RDM encoded as described in

Section 10 of [RFC8415]

.

For the port number associated to the Supported Transport, the same considerations as described
in Section 4.2 apply.

Migault, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9527

DHCPv6 Options for the HNA

January 2024

4.4.  Supported Transport

The Supported Transport field of the DHCPv6 option indicates the Supported Transport protocols.
Each bit represents a specific transport mechanism. A bit set to 1 indicates the associated
transport protocol is supported. The corresponding bits are assigned as described in Table 2.

DNS over mutually authenticated TLS (DomTLS):

Indicates the support of DNS over TLS

[RFC7858]

 and DNS Zone Transfer over TLS

[RFC9103]

 as described in

[RFC9526]

.

As an example, the Supported Transport field expressing support for DomTLS looks as follows
and has a numeric value of 0x0001:

 0                   1
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|        must be zero         |1|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

5.  DHCPv6 Behavior

5.1.  DHCPv6 Server Behavior

 governs server operation regarding option assignment. As a

Section 18.3 of [RFC8415]
convenience to the reader, we mention here that the server will send option foo only if
configured with specific values for foo and if the client requested it. In particular, when
configured, the DHCPv6 server sends the Registered Homenet Domain Option, Distribution
Manager Option, and Reverse Distribution Manager Option when requested by the DHCPv6
client by including necessary option codes in its ORO.

5.2.  DHCPv6 Client Behavior

The DHCPv6 client includes the Registered Homenet Domain Option, Distribution Manager
Option, and Reverse Distribution Manager Option in an ORO as specified in Sections 18.2 and
21.7 of

[RFC8415]
.

Upon receiving a DHCPv6 option, as described in this document, in the Reply message, the HNA
SHOULD

 proceed as described in

[RFC9526]
.

5.3.  DHCPv6 Relay Agent Behavior

There are no additional requirements for the DHCPv6 Relay agents.

Migault, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9527

DHCPv6 Options for the HNA

January 2024

6.  IANA Considerations

6.1.  DHCPv6 Option Codes

IANA has assigned the following new DHCPv6 Option Codes in the "Option Codes" registry
maintained at

<https://www.iana.org/assignments/dhcpv6-parameters>
.

Value Description

Client
ORO

Singleton
Option

145

OPTION_REGISTERED_DOMAIN

Yes

No

146

OPTION_FORWARD_DIST_MANAGER

Yes

Yes

147

OPTION_REVERSE_DIST_MANAGER

Yes

Yes

Reference

RFC 9527,
Section 4.1

RFC 9527,
Section 4.2

RFC 9527,
Section 4.3

Table 1: Option Codes Registry

6.2.  Supported Transport Parameter

IANA has created and maintains a new registry called "Supported Transport" under the
"Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol for IPv6 (DHCPv6)" registry at
assignments/dhcpv6-parameters>
Distributed Manager Option (OPTION_FORWARD_DIST_MANAGER) or the Reverse Distribution
Manager Option (OPTION_REVERSE_DIST_MANAGER). The different parameters are defined in
Table 2 (Section 6.2).

. This registry contains Supported Transport parameters in the

<https://www.iana.org/

The Supported Transport field of the DHCPv6 option is a two-octet field that indicates the
Supported Transport protocols. Each bit represents a specific transport mechanism.

New entries
MUST
reference as shown in Table 2.

 specify the bit position, the transport protocol description, a mnemonic, and a

Changes to the format or policies of the registry are managed by the IETF via the IESG.

Future code points are assigned under RFC Required per
specified in Table 2 below.

[RFC8126]

. The initial registry is as

Bit Position (least to most
significant)

Transport Protocol
Description

Mnemonic

Reference

0

DNS over mutually
authenticated TLS

DomTLS

RFC 9527

Migault, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9527

DHCPv6 Options for the HNA

January 2024

Bit Position (least to most
significant)

Transport Protocol
Description

Mnemonic

Reference

1-15

Unassigned

Table 2: Supported Transport Registry

7.  Security Considerations

The security considerations in
 are to be considered. The trust associated with the
information carried by the DHCPv6 options described in this document is similar to the one
associated with the IP prefix, when configured via DHCPv6.

[RFC8415]

MAY

In some cases, the ISP
require relying on TLS to authenticate the HNA. As the use of TLS is mandatory, it is expected
that the HNA will be provisioned with a certificate. In some cases, the HNA may use a self-signed
certificate.

 identify the HNA by its wire line (i.e., physically), which may not

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC7858]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8415]

[RFC9103]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

,

Hu, Z. Zhu, L. Heidemann, J. Mankin, A. Wessels, D.
"Specification for DNS over Transport Layer Security (TLS)" RFC 7858 DOI
10.17487/RFC7858

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7858>

, May 2016,

P. Hoffman

, and

,

,

,

.

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

.

,

,

,

,

, June

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Mrugalski, T. Siodelski, M. Volz, B. Yourtchenko, A. Richardson, M. Jiang, S.
,
Lemon, T.
, and
(DHCPv6)" RFC 8415 DOI 10.17487/RFC8415
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc8415>

T. Winters "Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol for IPv6

, November 2018,

<https://www.rfc-

,

.

,

,

,

,

,

Toorop, W. Dickinson, S. Sahib, S. Aras, P.
over TLS" RFC 9103 DOI 10.17487/RFC9103
,
editor.org/info/rfc9103>

,
,

,

,

.

, and

A. Mankin "DNS Zone Transfer

,
<https://www.rfc-

, August 2021,

Migault, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9527

DHCPv6 Options for the HNA

January 2024

[RFC9526]

,

Migault, D. Weber, R. Richardson, M.
Public Names for Residential Networks" RFC 9526 DOI 10.17487/RFC9526
January 2024,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9526>

R. Hunter "Simple Provisioning of

, and
,

,

,

,

,

.

8.2.  Informative References

[CNAME-PLUS-DNAME]

Surý, O. "CNAME+DNAME Name Redirection" Work in Progress

,

,

Internet-Draft, draft-sury-dnsop-cname-plus-dname-01
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-sury-dnsop-cname-plus-dname-01>

.

<https://

,
, 15 July 2018,

[PD-REVERSE]

,

Andrews, M. "Automated Delegation of IP6.ARPA reverse zones with Prefix
,
,
Delegation" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-andrews-dnsop-pd-
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-
reverse-02
, 5 November 2013,
andrews-dnsop-pd-reverse-02>
.

[RFC1034]

[RFC2181]

[RFC6672]

[RFC7227]

[RFC7368]

Mockapetris, P. "Domain names - concepts and facilities" STD 13 RFC 1034 DOI
10.17487/RFC1034

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1034>

, November 1987,

,

,

,

.

Elz, R.
 and
10.17487/RFC2181

R. Bush "Clarifications to the DNS Specification" RFC 2181 DOI

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2181>

,
, July 1997,

,

.

Rose, S.
 and
10.17487/RFC6672

W. Wijngaards "DNAME Redirection in the DNS" RFC 6672 DOI

,

,

, June 2012,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6672>

,
.

,

S. Krishnan "Guidelines
,
Hankins, D. Mrugalski, T. Siodelski, M. Jiang, S.
,
for Creating New DHCPv6 Options" BCP 187 RFC 7227 DOI 10.17487/RFC7227
,
May 2014,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7227>

, and

,

.

,

,

,

,

J. Weil "IPv6 Home
Chown, T., Ed. Arkko, J. Brandt, A. Troan, O.
,
Networking Architecture Principles" RFC 7368 DOI 10.17487/RFC7368
2014,

, and
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7368>
.

,

,

,

, October

Appendix A.  Scenarios and Impact on the End User

This appendix details various scenarios and discusses their impact on the end user. This
appendix is not normative and limits the description of a limited scope of scenarios that are
assumed to be representative. Many other scenarios may be derived from these.

A.1.  Base Scenario

The base scenario, as described in Section 3, is one in which an ISP manages the DHCPv6 server,
DM, and RDM.

The end user subscribes to the ISP (foo), and at subscription time, it registers foo.example as its
Registered Homenet Domain.

In this scenario, the DHCPv6 server, DM, and RDM are managed by the ISP, so the DHCPv6 server
and such can provide authentication credentials of the HNA to enable secure authenticated
transaction with the DM and the Reverse DM.

Migault, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9527

DHCPv6 Options for the HNA

January 2024

The main advantage of this scenario is that the naming architecture is configured automatically
and transparently for the end user. The drawbacks are that the end user uses a Registered
Homenet Domain managed by the ISP and that it relies on the ISP naming infrastructure.

A.2.  Third-Party Registered Homenet Domain

This appendix considers the case where the end user wants its home network to use
example.com but does not want it to be managed by the ISP (foo) as a Registered Homenet
Domain, and the ISP manages the home network and still provides foo.example as a Registered
Homenet Domain.

When the end user buys the domain name example.com, it may request to redirect example.com
, or
to foo.example using static redirection with CNAME
CNAME+DNAME
domain name assigned by the ISP. Once the redirection has been configured, the HNA may be
changed, and the zone can be updated as described in Appendix A.1 without any additional
configuration from the end user.

. The only information the end user needs to know is the

[CNAME-PLUS-DNAME]

[RFC1034] [RFC2181]

[RFC6672]

, DNAME

The main advantage of this scenario is that the end user benefits from the zero configuration of
the base scenario in Appendix A.1. Then, the end user is able to register an unlimited number of
domain names provided by an unlimited number of different third-party providers for its home
network. The drawback of this scenario may be that the end user still needs to rely on the ISP
naming infrastructure. Note that this may be inconvenient in the case where the DNS servers
provided by the ISPs result in high latency.

A.3.  Third-Party DNS Infrastructure

This scenario involves the end user using example.com as a Registered Homenet Domain and not
relying on the authoritative servers provided by the ISP.

In this appendix, we limit the outsourcing of the DM and Public Authoritative Server(s) to a third
party. The Reverse Public Authoritative Server(s) and the RDM remain managed by the ISP as the
IP prefix is managed by the ISP.

Outsourcing to a third-party DM can be performed in the following ways:

1.

Updating the DHCPv6 server information. One can imagine a GUI interface that enables the
end user to modify its profile parameters. Again, this configuration update only needs to be
performed one time.

2.

Uploading the configuration of the DM to the HNA. In some cases, the provider of the CPE
router hosting the HNA may be the registrar, and the registrar may provide the CPE router
already configured. In other cases, the CPE router may request the end user to log into the
registrar to validate the ownership of the Registered Homenet Domain and agree on the
necessary credentials to secure the communication between the HNA and the DM. As
described in
limit the necessary interactions with the end user.

, such settings could be performed in an almost automatic way as to

[RFC9526]

Migault, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9527

DHCPv6 Options for the HNA

January 2024

A.4.  Multiple ISPs

This scenario involves an HNA connected to multiple ISPs.

Suppose the HNA has configured each of its interfaces independently with each ISP as described
in Appendix A.1. Each ISP provides a different Registered Homenet Domain.

The protocol and DHCPv6 options described in this document are fully compatible with an HNA
connected to multiple ISPs with multiple Registered Homenet Domains. However, the HNA
should be able to handle different Registered Homenet Domains. This is an implementation issue,
which is outside the scope of this document.

If an HNA is not able to handle multiple Registered Homenet Domains, the HNA may remain
connected to multiple ISPs with a single Registered Homenet Domain. In this case, one entity is
chosen to host the Registered Homenet Domain. This entity may be an ISP or a third party. Note
that having multiple ISPs can be motivation for bandwidth aggregation or connectivity failover.
In the case of connectivity failover, the failover concerns the access network, and a failure of the
access network may not impact the core network where the DM and Public Authoritative
Primaries are hosted. In that sense, choosing one of the ISPs even in a scenario of multiple ISPs
may make sense. However, for the sake of simplicity, this scenario assumes that a third party has
been chosen to host the Registered Homenet Domain. Configuration is performed as described in
Appendices A.2 and A.3.

With the configuration described in Appendix A.2, the HNA is expected to be able to handle
multiple Registered Homenet Domains as the third-party redirect to one of the ISP's servers. With
the configuration described in Appendix A.3, DNS zones are hosted and maintained by the third
party. A single DNS(SEC) Homenet Zone is built and maintained by the HNA. This latter
configuration is likely to match most HNA implementations.

The protocol and DHCPv6 options described in this document are fully compatible with an HNA
connected to multiple ISPs. Whether to configure the HNA or not, and how to configure the HNA,
depends on the HNA facilities. Appendices A.1 and A.2 require the HNA to handle multiple
Registered Homenet Domains, whereas Appendix A.3 does not have such a requirement.

Acknowledgments

,

Marcin Siodelski Bernie Volz

Ted Lemon
Mark Andrews Andrew Sullivan
,
 for their remarks on the architecture design. The designed solution has been
[PD-REVERSE]

We would like to thank
, and
design of the DHCPv6 options. We would also like to thank
Lorenzo Colliti
largely inspired by
We also thank
suggesting appropriate terminology.

 document
Michael Richardson

 for their reviews and comments and for

 as well as discussions with

 for their comments on the
, and

Mark Andrews's

Ray Hunter

Mark
.

 and

Contributors

The coauthors would like to thank
contributions to the early draft versions of this document.

Chris Griffiths

 and

Wouter Cloetens

 for providing significant

Migault, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9527

DHCPv6 Options for the HNA

January 2024

Authors' Addresses

Daniel Migault
Ericsson
8275 Trans Canada Route
Saint Laurent QC 4S 0B6
Canada
Email:

 daniel.migault@ericsson.com

Ralf Weber
Akamai
Email:

 ralf.weber@akamai.com

Tomek Mrugalski
Internet Systems Consortium, Inc.
PO Box 360
Newmarket NH 03857
,
United States of America
Email:

 tomasz.mrugalski@gmail.com

Migault, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

