Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9159
Standards Track
December 2021
2070-1721
C. Gomez
Universitat Politecnica de Catalunya

T. Savolainen
Unaffiliated

M. Spoerk
Graz University of Technology

S.M. Darroudi
Universitat Politecnica de Catalunya

RFC 9159
IPv6 Mesh over BLUETOOTH(R) Low Energy Using
the Internet Protocol Support Proﬁle (IPSP)

Abstract

RFC 7668 describes the adaptation of IPv6 over Low-Power Wireless Personal Area Network
(6LoWPAN) techniques to enable IPv6 over Bluetooth Low Energy (Bluetooth LE) networks that
follow the star topology. However, recent Bluetooth speciﬁcations allow the formation of
extended topologies as well. This document speciﬁes mechanisms that are needed to enable IPv6
mesh over Bluetooth LE links established by using the Bluetooth Internet Protocol Support Proﬁle
(IPSP). This document does not specify the routing protocol to be used in an IPv6 mesh over
Bluetooth LE links.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9159
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Gomez, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9159

IPv6 Mesh over Bluetooth LE

December 2021

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Terminology and Requirements Language

2.  Bluetooth LE Networks and the IPSP

3.  Speciﬁcation of IPv6 Mesh over Bluetooth LE Links

3.1.  Protocol Stack

3.2.  Subnet Model

3.3.  Link Model

3.3.1.  Stateless Address Autoconﬁguration

3.3.2.  Neighbor Discovery

3.3.3.  Header Compression

3.3.4.  Unicast and Multicast Mapping

4.  IANA Considerations

5.  Security Considerations

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

6.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Bluetooth LE Connection Establishment Example

Appendix B.  Node-Joining Procedure

Acknowledgements

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

Gomez, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9159

IPv6 Mesh over Bluetooth LE

December 2021

1.  Introduction

Bluetooth Low Energy (hereinafter, Bluetooth LE) was ﬁrst introduced in the Bluetooth 4.0
speciﬁcation. Bluetooth LE (which has been marketed as Bluetooth Smart) is a low-power wireless
technology designed for short-range control and monitoring applications. Bluetooth LE is
currently implemented in a wide range of consumer electronics devices, such as smartphones
and wearable devices. Given the high potential of this technology for the Internet of Things, the
Bluetooth Special Interest Group (Bluetooth SIG) and the IETF have produced speciﬁcations in
order to enable IPv6 over Bluetooth LE, such as the Internet Protocol Support Proﬁle (IPSP)
and
 was speciﬁcally developed and
follow the star topology. As a consequence,
optimized for that type of network topology. However, the functionality described in
RFC 7668
 is not suﬃcient and would fail to enable an IPv6 mesh over Bluetooth LE links. This
[RFC7668]
document speciﬁes mechanisms that are needed to enable IPv6 mesh over Bluetooth LE links.
This document does not specify the routing protocol to be used in an IPv6 mesh over Bluetooth LE
links.

, respectively. Bluetooth 4.0 only supports Bluetooth LE networks that

RFC 7668 [RFC7668]

RFC 7668 [RFC7668]

[IPSP]

1.1.  Terminology and Requirements Language

The key words "
", "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
", "
"
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

The terms "6LoWPAN Node" (6LN), "6LoWPAN Router" (6LR), and "6LoWPAN Border Router"
(6LBR) are deﬁned as in
peripheral (see Section 2) can both be adopted by a 6LN, a 6LR, or a 6LBR.

, with an addition that Bluetooth LE central and Bluetooth LE

[RFC6775]

2.  Bluetooth LE Networks and the IPSP

Bluetooth LE deﬁnes two Generic Access Proﬁle (GAP) roles of relevance herein: the Bluetooth LE
central role and the Bluetooth LE peripheral role. In Bluetooth 4.0, a device in the central role,
which is called "central" from now on, was able to manage multiple simultaneous connections
with a number of devices in the peripheral role, called "peripherals" hereinafter. Bluetooth 4.1
(now deprecated) introduced the possibility for a peripheral to be connected to more than one
central simultaneously, therefore allowing extended topologies beyond the star topology for a
[BTCorev4.1]
Bluetooth LE network
of link-layer connections, as well as a peripheral in others.

. In addition, a device may simultaneously be a central in a set

On the other hand, the IPSP enables discovery of IP-enabled devices and the establishment of a
link-layer connection for transporting IPv6 packets. The IPSP deﬁnes the Node and Router roles
for devices that consume/originate IPv6 packets and for devices that can route IPv6 packets,
respectively. Consistent with Bluetooth 4.1, Bluetooth 4.2
versions, a device may implement both roles simultaneously.

, and subsequent Bluetooth

[BTCorev4.2]

Gomez, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9159

IPv6 Mesh over Bluetooth LE

December 2021

This document assumes a mesh network composed of Bluetooth LE links, where link-layer
connections are established between neighboring IPv6-enabled devices (see Section 3.3.2, item 3.b,
and an example in Appendix A). The IPv6 forwarding devices of the mesh have to implement both
IPSP Node and Router roles, while simpler leaf-only nodes can implement only the Node role. In
an IPv6 mesh over Bluetooth LE links, a node is a neighbor of another node, and vice versa, if a
link-layer connection has been established between both by using the IPSP functionality for
discovery and link-layer connection establishment for IPv6 packet transport.

3.  Speciﬁcation of IPv6 Mesh over Bluetooth LE Links

3.1.  Protocol Stack

Figure 1 illustrates the protocol stack for IPv6 mesh over Bluetooth LE links. The core Bluetooth LE
protocol stack comprises two main sections: the Controller and the Host. The former includes the
Physical Layer and the Link Layer, whereas the latter is composed of the Logical Link Control and
Adaptation Protocol (L2CAP), the Attribute Protocol (ATT), and the Generic Attribute Proﬁle
(GATT). The Host and the Controller sections are connected by means of the Host-Controller
Interface (HCI). A device that supports the IPSP Node role instantiates one Internet Protocol
Support Service (IPSS), which runs atop GATT. The protocol stack shown in Figure 1 shows two
main diﬀerences with the IPv6 over Bluetooth LE stack in

[RFC7668]

:

a)

b)

the adaptation layer below IPv6 (labeled as "6Lo for IPv6 mesh over Bluetooth LE") is now
adapted for IPv6 mesh over Bluetooth LE links, and

the protocol stack for IPv6 mesh over Bluetooth LE links includes IPv6 routing
functionality.

                       +------------------------------------+
                       |             Application            |
          +---------+  +------------------------------------+
          |  IPSS   |  |            UDP/TCP/other           |
          +---------+  +------------------------------------+
          |  GATT   |  |             IPv6  |routing|        |
          +---------+  +------------------------------------+
          |  ATT    |  | 6Lo for IPv6 mesh over Bluetooth LE|
          +---------+--+------------------------------------+
          |                 Bluetooth LE L2CAP              |
  HCI - - +-------------------------------------------------+ - -
          |               Bluetooth LE Link Layer           |
          +-------------------------------------------------+
          |             Bluetooth LE Physical Layer         |
          +-------------------------------------------------+

Figure 1: Protocol Stack for IPv6 Mesh over Bluetooth LE Links

Bluetooth 4.2 deﬁnes a default MTU for Bluetooth LE of 251 bytes. Excluding the L2CAP header of 4
bytes, a protocol data unit (PDU) size of 247 bytes is available for the layer above L2CAP. (Note:
Earlier Bluetooth LE versions oﬀered a maximum amount of 23 bytes for the layer atop L2CAP.)

Gomez, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9159

IPv6 Mesh over Bluetooth LE

December 2021

The L2CAP provides a fragmentation and reassembly solution for transmitting or receiving larger
PDUs. At each link, the IPSP deﬁnes means for negotiating a link-layer connection that provides
an MTU of 1280 octets or higher for the IPv6 layer
size for IPv6 mesh over BLE links is 1280 octets.

. As per the present speciﬁcation, the MTU

[IPSP]

Similarly to
mesh over Bluetooth LE links. Bluetooth LE's fragmentation support provided by L2CAP is used.

, fragmentation functionality from 6LoWPAN standards is not used for IPv6

[RFC7668]

3.2.  Subnet Model

For IPv6 mesh over Bluetooth LE links, a multilink model has been chosen, as further illustrated in
Figure 2. As IPv6 over Bluetooth LE is intended for constrained nodes and for Internet of Things
use cases and environments, the complexity of implementing a separate subnet on each
peripheral-central link and routing between the subnets appears to be excessive. In this
speciﬁcation, the beneﬁts of treating the collection of point-to-point links between a central and
its connected peripherals as a single multilink subnet rather than a multiplicity of separate
[RFC4903]
subnets are considered to outweigh the multilink model's drawbacks as described in
With the multilink subnet model, the routers have to take on the responsibility of tracking the
multicast state and forwarding multicast in a loop-free manner. Note that the route-over
functionality deﬁned in
mesh over Bluetooth LE links.

 is essential to enabling the multilink subnet model for IPv6

[RFC6775]

.

                                                       /
                                                      /
         6LR           6LN        6LN                /
            \             \          \              /
             \             \          \            /
    6LN ----- 6LR --------- 6LR ------ 6LBR ----- |  Internet
     <--Link--> <---Link--->/<--Link->/           |
                           /         /             \
               6LN ---- 6LR ----- 6LR               \
                                                     \
                                                      \

  <------------ Subnet -----------------><---- IPv6 connection -->
                                               to the Internet

Figure 2: Example of an IPv6 Mesh over a Bluetooth LE Network Connected to the Internet

One or more 6LBRs are connected to the Internet. 6LNs are connected to the network through a
6LR or a 6LBR. Note that in some scenarios and/or for some time intervals, a 6LR may remain at
the edge of the network (e.g., the top left node in Figure 2). This may happen when a 6LR has no
neighboring 6LNs. A single global unicast preﬁx is used on the whole subnet.

IPv6 mesh over Bluetooth LE links
specify the routing protocol to be used in an IPv6 mesh over Bluetooth LE links.

 follow a route-over approach. This document does not

MUST

Gomez, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9159

IPv6 Mesh over Bluetooth LE

December 2021

3.3.  Link Model

3.3.1.  Stateless Address Autoconﬁguration

6LN, 6LR, and 6LBR IPv6 addresses in an IPv6 mesh over Bluetooth LE links are conﬁgured as per
Section 3.2.2 of [RFC7668]

.

Multihop Duplicate Address Detection (DAD) functionality as deﬁned in
and updated by

, or some substitute mechanism (see Section 3.3.2),

Section 8.2 of [RFC6775]
 be supported.

[RFC8505]

MAY

3.3.2.  Neighbor Discovery

[RFC6775]

"Neighbor Discovery Optimization for IPv6 over Low-Power Wireless Personal Area Networks
(6LoWPANs)"
, subsequently updated by "Registration Extensions for IPv6 over Low-
Power Wireless Personal Area Network (6LoWPAN) Neighbor Discovery"
neighbor discovery functionality adapted for use in several 6LoWPAN topologies, including the
mesh topology. The route-over functionality of

[RFC8505] MUST

 be supported.

[RFC8505]

[RFC6775]

 and

, describes the

The following aspects of the Neighbor Discovery optimizations for 6LoWPAN
are applicable to Bluetooth LE 6LNs:

[RFC6775] [RFC8505]

1.

MUST

A Bluetooth LE 6LN
 register its non-link-local addresses with its routers by sending a
Neighbor Solicitation (NS) message with the Extended Address Registration Option (EARO)
and process the Neighbor Advertisement (NA) accordingly. The EARO option includes a
Registration Ownership Veriﬁer (ROVR) ﬁeld
. In the case of Bluetooth LE, by
default, the ROVR ﬁeld is ﬁlled with the 48-bit device address used by the Bluetooth LE node
converted into 64-bit Modiﬁed EUI-64 format
RFC 8928 [RFC8928] MAY
registration and multihop DAD formats and procedures deﬁned in
unless an alternative mechanism oﬀering equivalent protection is used.

 be placed in the ROVR ﬁeld. If a cryptographic ID is used, address
 be used

. Optionally, a cryptographic ID (see

[RFC8928] MUST

[RFC4291]

[RFC8505]

)

[RFC8505]

, a 6LN link-local address does not need to be unique in the multilink subnet.
As per
A link-local address only needs to be unique from the perspective of the two nodes that use it
to communicate (e.g., the 6LN and the 6LR in an NS/NA exchange). Therefore, the exchange of
Extended Duplicate Address Request (EDAR) and Extended Duplicate Address Conﬁrmation
(EDAC) messages between the 6LR and a 6LBR, which ensures that an address is unique across
the domain covered by the 6LBR, does not need to take place for link-local addresses.

If the 6LN registers multiple addresses that are not based on the Bluetooth device address
using the same compression context, the header compression eﬃciency may decrease, since
only the last registered address can be fully elided (see

Section 3.2.4 of [RFC7668]

).

2.

For sending Router Solicitations and processing Router Advertisements, the hosts that
participate in an IPv6 mesh over BLE
, respectively, follow Sections 5.3 and 5.4 of
[RFC6775]

Section 5.6 of [RFC8505]

, and

MUST

.

3.

The router behavior for 6LRs and 6LBRs is described in
[RFC8505]
. However, as per this speciﬁcation:
a.
Routers
SHALL NOT

 use multicast NSs to discover other routers' link-layer addresses.

Section 6 of [RFC6775]

 and updated by

Gomez, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9159

IPv6 Mesh over Bluetooth LE

December 2021

b. As per

Section 6.2 of [RFC6775]

, in a dynamic conﬁguration scenario, a 6LR comes up as a
non-router and waits to receive a Router Advertisement for conﬁguring its own interface
address ﬁrst before setting its interfaces to advertising interfaces and turning into a router.
In order to support such an operation in an IPv6 mesh over Bluetooth LE links, a 6LR ﬁrst
uses the IPSP Node role only. Once the 6LR has established a connection with another node
currently running as a router and receives a Router Advertisement from that router, the
6LR conﬁgures its own interface address, turns into a router, and runs as an IPSP Router. In
contrast with a 6LR, a 6LBR uses the IPSP Router role since the 6LBR is initialized; that is,
the 6LBR uses both the IPSP Node and IPSP Router roles at all times. See an example in
Appendix B.

4.

Border router behavior is described in

Section 7 of [RFC6775]

 and updated by

[RFC8505]

.

 deﬁnes substitutable mechanisms for distributing preﬁxes and context

), as well as for duplicate address detection across a

Section 8.1 of [RFC6775]

[RFC6775]
information (
route-over 6LoWPAN (
related message formats. Implementations of this speciﬁcation
features described in Sections 8.1 and 8.2 of
alternative ("substitute") mechanism.

Section 8.2 of [RFC6775]

[RFC8505]

[RFC6775]

).

 updates those mechanisms and the

MUST
, as updated by

 either support the
[RFC8505]
 or some

3.3.3.  Header Compression

Header compression as deﬁned in RFC 6282
for IPv6 datagrams on top of IEEE 802.15.4, is
on top of Bluetooth LE. All headers
encoding formats.

MUST

[RFC6282]
REQUIRED

, which speciﬁes the compression format

 as the basis for IPv6 header compression

 be compressed according to RFC 6282

[RFC6282]

To enable eﬃcient header compression, when the 6LBR sends a Router Advertisement, it
include a 6LoWPAN Context Option (6CO)
a Preﬁx Information Option (PIO)
that 6CO is not needed for context-based compression when the context is pre-provisioned or
provided by out-of-band means as, in these cases, the in-band indication (6CO) becomes
superﬂuous.

 matching each address preﬁx advertised via
 for use in stateless address autoconﬁguration. Note

[RFC4861]

[RFC6775]

MAY

[RFC8505]

[RFC7668]

 for header compression, which exploited the star

), cannot be generalized in an IPv6 mesh over Bluetooth LE links. Still, a subset of

The speciﬁc optimizations of
topology and Address Registration Option (ARO) (note that the latter has been updated by EARO
as per
those optimizations can be applied in some cases in such a network. These cases comprise link-
local interactions, non-link-local packet transmissions originated by a 6LN (i.e., the ﬁrst hop from
a 6LN), and non-link-local packets intended for a 6LN that are originated or forwarded by a
neighbor of that 6LN (i.e., the last hop toward a 6LN). For all other packet transmissions, context-
based compression

 be used.

MAY

 fully elide the source Interface
When a device transmits a packet to a neighbor, the sender
Identiﬁer (IID) if the source IPv6 address is the link-local address based on the sender's Bluetooth
device address (SAC=0, SAM=11). The sender also
 fully elide the destination IPv6 address if it
is the link-local address based on the neighbor's Bluetooth device address (DAC=0, DAM=11).

MUST

MUST

Gomez, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9159

IPv6 Mesh over Bluetooth LE

December 2021

When a 6LN transmits a packet with a non-link-local source address that the 6LN has registered
with EARO in the next-hop router for the indicated preﬁx, the source address
 be fully elided
if it is the latest address that the 6LN has registered for the indicated preﬁx (SAC=1, SAM=11). If the
source non-link-local address is not the latest registered by the 6LN and the ﬁrst 48 bits of the IID
 be carried
match the latest address are registered by the 6LN, then the last 16 bits of the IID
inline (SAC=1, SAM=10). Otherwise, if the ﬁrst 48 bits of the IID do not match, then the 64 bits of the
IID

 be fully carried inline (SAC=1, SAM=01).

SHALL

SHALL

MUST

MUST

When a router transmits a packet to a neighboring 6LN with a non-link-local destination address,
the router
 fully elide the destination IPv6 address if the destination address is the latest
registered by the 6LN with EARO for the indicated context (DAC=1, DAM=11). If the destination
address is a non-link-local address and not the latest registered and if the ﬁrst 48 bits of the IID
match those of the latest registered address, then the last 16 bits of the IID
(DAC=1, DAM=10). Otherwise, if the ﬁrst 48 bits of the IID do not match, then the 64 bits of the IID
SHALL

 be fully carried in-line (DAC=1, DAM=01).

 be carried inline

SHALL

3.3.4.  Unicast and Multicast Mapping

The Bluetooth LE Link Layer does not support multicast. Hence, traﬃc is always unicast between
two Bluetooth LE neighboring nodes. If a node needs to send a multicast packet to several
neighbors, it has to replicate the packet and unicast it on each link. However, this may not be
energy eﬃcient, and particular care must be taken if the node is battery powered. A router (i.e., a
6LR or a 6LBR)
multicast packets to neighbors that have not registered as listeners for multicast groups to which
the packets are destined.

 keep track of neighboring multicast listeners, and it

MUST NOT

 forward

MUST

4.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

5.  Security Considerations

The security considerations in

[RFC7668]

 apply.

IPv6 mesh over BLE requires a routing protocol to ﬁnd end-to-end paths. Unfortunately, the
routing protocol may generate additional opportunities for threats and attacks to the network.

 provides a systematic overview of threats and attacks on the IPv6 Routing

RFC 7416 [RFC7416]
Protocol for Low-Power and Lossy Networks (RPL), as well as countermeasures. In that
document, described threats and attacks comprise threats due to failures to authenticate, threats
due to failure to keep routing information, threats and attacks on integrity, and threats and
attacks on availability. Reported countermeasures comprise conﬁdentiality attack, integrity
attack, and availability attack countermeasures.

While this speciﬁcation does not state the routing protocol to be used in IPv6 mesh over Bluetooth
LE links, the guidance of
such guidance may partly apply for other routing protocols as well.

 is useful when RPL is used in such scenarios. Furthermore,

[RFC7416]

Gomez, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9159

IPv6 Mesh over Bluetooth LE

December 2021

The ROVR can be derived from the Bluetooth device address. However, such a ROVR can be
spoofed; therefore, any node connected to the subnet and aware of a registered-address-to-ROVR
mapping could perform address theft and impersonation attacks. Use of Address Protected
Neighbor Discovery

 provides protection against such attacks.

[RFC8928]

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

[BTCorev4.2]

[IPSP]

[RFC2119]

[RFC4291]

[RFC4861]

[RFC6282]

[RFC6775]

[RFC7668]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8505]

Bluetooth "Core Speciﬁcation 4.2"
www.bluetooth.com/speciﬁcations/specs/core-speciﬁcation-4-2/>
.

, 2 December 2014,

<https://

,

Bluetooth "Internet Protocol Support Proﬁle 1.0"
www.bluetooth.com/speciﬁcations/specs/internet-protocol-support-proﬁle-1-0/>
.

, 16 December 2014,

<https://

,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
,
rfc2119>
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

Hinden, R.
10.17487/RFC4291

 and

S. Deering "IP Version 6 Addressing Architecture" RFC 4291 DOI

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4291>
.

,
, February 2006,

,

,

Narten, T. Nordmark, E. Simpson, W.
,
IP version 6 (IPv6)" RFC 4861 DOI 10.17487/RFC4861
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4861>

, and

,

,

H. Soliman "Neighbor Discovery for
, September 2007,

<https://

,

P. Thubert "Compression Format for IPv6 Datagrams over IEEE

 and

Hui, J., Ed.
802.15.4-Based Networks" RFC 6282 DOI 10.17487/RFC6282
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6282>

,
,

,

, September 2011,

,

Shelby, Z., Ed. Chakrabarti, S. Nordmark, E.
Discovery Optimization for IPv6 over Low-Power Wireless Personal Area
, November 2012,
Networks (6LoWPANs)" RFC 6775 DOI 10.17487/RFC6775
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6775>

,
C. Bormann "Neighbor

, and

,

,

,

,

Nieminen, J. Savolainen, T. Isomaki, M. Patil, B. Shelby, Z.
over BLUETOOTH(R) Low Energy" RFC 7668 DOI 10.17487/RFC7668
2015,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7668>

, and

,

,

,

,

,

C. Gomez "IPv6
, October

,

,
,
Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
.
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

Thubert, P., Ed. Nordmark, E. Chakrabarti, S.
Extensions for IPv6 over Low-Power Wireless Personal Area Network (6LoWPAN)
Neighbor Discovery" RFC 8505 DOI 10.17487/RFC8505
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8505>

C. Perkins "Registration

, November 2018,

<https://

, and

,

,

,

,

Gomez, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9159

IPv6 Mesh over Bluetooth LE

December 2021

[RFC8928]

,

R. Struik "Address-Protected Neighbor
Thubert, P., Ed. Sarikaya, B. Sethi, M.
, and
Discovery for Low-Power and Lossy Networks" RFC 8928 DOI 10.17487/RFC8928
,
November 2020,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8928>
.

,

,

,

6.2.  Informative References

[BTCorev4.1]

[RFC4903]

[RFC7416]

Bluetooth "Core Speciﬁcation 4.1"
www.bluetooth.com/speciﬁcations/specs/core-speciﬁcation-4-1/>
.

, 3 December 2013,

<https://

,

Thaler, D. "Multi-Link Subnet Issues" RFC 4903 DOI 10.17487/RFC4903
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4903>

,

,

,

, June 2007,

,

,

Tsao, T. Alexander, R. Dohler, M. Daza, V. Lozano, A.
Security Threat Analysis for the Routing Protocol for Low-Power and Lossy
Networks (RPLs)" RFC 7416 DOI 10.17487/RFC7416
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7416>

, January 2015,

<https://

, and

,

,

,

,

M. Richardson, Ed. "A

,

Appendix A.  Bluetooth LE Connection Establishment Example

This appendix provides an example of Bluetooth LE connection establishment and use of IPSP
roles in an IPv6 mesh over BLE that uses dynamic conﬁguration. The example follows text in
Section 3.3.2, item 3.b.

The example assumes a network with one 6LBR, two 6LRs, and three 6LNs, as shown in Figure 3.
Connectivity between the 6LNs and the 6LBR is only possible via the 6LRs.

The following text describes the diﬀerent steps in the example as time evolves. Note that other
sequences of events that may lead to the same ﬁnal scenario are also possible.

At the beginning, the 6LBR starts running as an IPSP router, whereas the rest of devices are not
yet initialized (Step 1). Next, the 6LRs start running as IPSP nodes, i.e., they use Bluetooth LE
advertisement packets to announce their presence and support of IPv6 capabilities (Step 2). The
6LBR (already running as an IPSP router) discovers the presence of the 6LRs and establishes one
Bluetooth LE connection with each 6LR (Step 3). After establishment of those link-layer
connections (and after reception of Router Advertisements from the 6LBR), the 6LRs start
operating as routers and also initiate the IPSP Router role (Step 4). (Note: whether the IPSP Node
role is kept running simultaneously is an implementation decision). Then, 6LNs start running the
IPSP Node role (Step 5). Finally, the 6LRs discover the presence of the 6LNs and establish
connections with the latter (Step 6).

Gomez, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9159

IPv6 Mesh over Bluetooth LE

December 2021

Step 1
******
                                     6LBR
                                (IPSP: Router)

                           6LR                 6LR
                   (not initialized)     (not initialized)

             6LN                 6LN                  6LN
    (not initialized)      (not initialized)     (not initialized)

Step 2
******
                                     6LBR
                                (IPSP: Router)

                           6LR                 6LR
                      (IPSP: Node)         (IPSP: Node)

             6LN                 6LN                  6LN
    (not initialized)      (not initialized)     (not initialized)

Step 3
******

                                     6LBR
                                (IPSP: Router)
  Bluetooth LE connection -->   /            \
                               /              \
                           6LR                 6LR
                      (IPSP: Node)         (IPSP: Node)

             6LN                 6LN                  6LN
    (not initialized)      (not initialized)     (not initialized)

Gomez, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9159

IPv6 Mesh over Bluetooth LE

December 2021

Step 4
******

                                     6LBR
                                (IPSP: Router)
                                /            \
                               /              \
                           6LR                 6LR
                      (IPSP: Router)      (IPSP: Router)

             6LN                 6LN                  6LN
    (not initialized)      (not initialized)     (not initialized)

Step 5
******

                                     6LBR
                                (IPSP: Router)
                                /            \
                               /              \
                           6LR                 6LR
                      (IPSP: Router)      (IPSP: Router)

             6LN                   6LN                6LN
         (IPSP: Node)         (IPSP: Node)        (IPSP: Node)

Step 6
******

                                     6LBR
                                (IPSP: Router)
                                /            \
                               /              \
                           6LR                 6LR
                     (IPSP: Router)       (IPSP: Router)
                      /           \       /            \
                     /             \     /              \
                    /               \   /                \
                 6LN                 6LN                  6LN
            (IPSP: Node)         (IPSP: Node)         (IPSP: Node)

Figure 3: Example of Connection Establishment and Use of IPSP Roles in an IPv6 Mesh over
Bluetooth LE Links

Gomez, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9159

IPv6 Mesh over Bluetooth LE

December 2021

Appendix B.  Node-Joining Procedure

This appendix provides a diagram that illustrates the node-joining procedure. First of all, the
joining node advertises its presence in order to allow establishment of Bluetooth LE connections
with neighbors that already belong to a network. The neighbors typically run as a 6LR or as a
6LBR. After Bluetooth LE connection establishment, the joining node starts acting as a 6LN.

Figure 4 shows the sequence of messages that are exchanged by the 6LN and a neighboring 6LR
that already belongs to the network after the establishment of a Bluetooth LE connection
between both devices. Initially, the 6LN sends a Router Solicitation (RS) message (1). Then, the 6LR
replies with an RA, which includes the PIO (2). After discovering the non-link-local preﬁx in use in
the network, the 6LN creates its non-link-local address and registers that address with EARO (3) in
the 6LR, and then multihop DAD is performed (4). The next step is the transmission of the NA
message sent by the 6LR in response to the NS previously sent by the 6LN (5). If the non-link-local
address of the 6LN has been successfully validated, the 6LN can operate as a member of the
network it has joined.

            (1)                 6LN ----(RS)-------> 6LR
            (2)                 6LN <---(RA-PIO)---- 6LR
            (3)                 6LN ----(NS-EARO)--> 6LR
            (4)                 [Multihop DAD procedure]
            (5)                 6LN <---(NA)-------- 6LR

Figure 4: Message Exchange Diagram for a Joining Node

Acknowledgements

The Bluetooth, Bluetooth Smart, and Bluetooth Smart Ready marks are registered trademarks
owned by Bluetooth SIG, Inc.

The authors of this document are grateful to all authors of
borrows many concepts (albeit with necessary extensions) from

[RFC7668]

[RFC7668]

.

, since this document

The authors also thank
Alain Michaud Mark Powell Martin Turon Bilhanan Silverajan Rahul
,
Jadhav Pascal Thubert Acee Lindem Catherine Meadows
reviews and comments, which helped improve the document.

Dominique Barthel

 for their

, and

,

,

,

,

,

,

 has been supported in part by the Spanish Government Ministerio de Economia y

Carles Gomez
Competitividad through projects TEC2012-32531, TEC2016-79988-P, PID2019-106808RA-I00, and
FEDER and Secretaria d'Universitats i Recerca del Departament d'Empresa i Coneixement de la
Generalitat de Catalunya 2017 through grant SGR 376.

Gomez, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9159

IPv6 Mesh over Bluetooth LE

December 2021

Contributors

Carlo Alberto Boano
this document.

 (Graz University of Technology) contributed to the design and validation of

Authors' Addresses

Carles Gomez
Universitat Politecnica de Catalunya
C/Esteve Terradas, 7
08860 Castelldefels
Spain
Email:

 carlesgo@entel.upc.edu

Seyed Mahdi Darroudi
Universitat Politecnica de Catalunya
C/Esteve Terradas, 7
08860 Castelldefels
Spain
Email:

 sm.darroudi@entel.upc.edu

Teemu Savolainen
Unaﬃliated
Email:

 tsavo.stds@gmail.com

Michael Spoerk
Graz University of Technology
Inﬀeldgasse 16/I
8010 Graz
Austria
Email:

 michael.spoerk@tugraz.at

Gomez, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

