Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9390
Standards Track
April 2023
2070-1721
M. Jones
Individual

M. Liebsch
NEC

L. Morand
Orange

RFC 9390
Diameter Group Signaling

Abstract

In large network deployments, a single Diameter node can support over a million concurrent
Diameter sessions. In some use cases, Diameter nodes need to apply the same operation to a
large group of Diameter sessions concurrently. The Diameter base protocol commands operate
on a single session so these use cases can result in many thousands of command exchanges
enforcing the same operation on each session in the group. In order to reduce signaling, it is
desirable to enable bulk operations on all (or part of) the sessions managed by a Diameter node
using a single or a few command exchanges. This document specifies the Diameter protocol
extensions to achieve this signaling optimization.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9390
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9390

Diameter Group Signaling

April 2023

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  Protocol Overview

3.1.  Building and Modifying Session Groups

3.2.  Issuing Group Commands

3.3.  Permission Considerations

4.  Protocol Description

4.1.  Session Grouping Capability Discovery

4.1.1.  Capability Discovery Based on the Application Id

4.1.2.  Capability Discovery Based on AVP Presence

4.2.  Session Grouping

4.2.1.  Group Assignment at Session Initiation

4.2.2.  Removing a Session from a Session Group

4.2.3.  Mid-session Group Assignment Modifications

4.3.  Deleting a Session Group

4.4.  Performing Group Operations

4.4.1.  Sending Group Commands

4.4.2.  Receiving Group Commands

4.4.3.  Error Handling for Group Commands

4.4.4.  Single-Session Fallback

5.  Operation with Proxy Agents

6.  Commands Formatting

6.1.  Formatting Example: Group Re-Auth-Request

7.  Attribute-Value Pairs (AVPs)

7.1.  Session-Group-Info AVP

7.2.  Session-Group-Control-Vector AVP

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9390

Diameter Group Signaling

April 2023

7.3.  Session-Group-Id AVP

7.4.  Group-Response-Action AVP

7.5.  Session-Group-Capability-Vector AVP

8.  Result-Code AVP Values

9.  IANA Considerations

9.1.  AVP Codes

9.2.  New Registries

10. Security Considerations

11. Normative References

Appendix A.  Session Management -- Exemplary Session State Machine

A.1.  Use of Groups for the Authorization Session State Machine

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

In large network deployments, a single Diameter node can support over a million concurrent
Diameter sessions. In some use cases, Diameter nodes need to apply the same operation to a
large group of Diameter sessions concurrently. For example, a policy decision point may need to
modify the authorized quality of service for all active users having the same type of subscription.
The Diameter base protocol commands operate on a single session so these use cases can result
in many thousands of command exchanges enforcing the same operation on each session in the
group. In order to reduce signaling, it is desirable to enable bulk operations on all (or part of) the
sessions managed by a Diameter node using a single or a few command exchanges.

This document describes mechanisms for grouping Diameter sessions and applying Diameter
commands, such as performing re-authentication, re-authorization, termination, and abortion of
sessions to a group of sessions. This document does not define a new Diameter application.
Instead, it defines mechanisms, commands, and Attribute-Value Pairs (AVPs) that may be used by
any Diameter application that requires management of groups of sessions.

These mechanisms take the following design goals and features into account:

•

minimal impact to existing applications

•

extension of existing commands' Command Code Format (CCF) with optional AVPs to enable
grouping and group operations

•

fallback to single-session operation

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9390

Diameter Group Signaling

April 2023

•

implicit discovery of capability to support grouping and group operations in case no external
mechanism is available to discover a Diameter peer's capability to support session grouping
and session group operations

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

This document uses terminology defined in

[RFC6733]
.

3.  Protocol Overview

3.1.  Building and Modifying Session Groups

In order to accommodate bulk operations on Diameter sessions, the concept of session groups is
introduced. Once sessions are added to a group, a command acting on the group will affect all the
member sessions.

The client and the server can assign a new Diameter session to a group, e.g., in case the
subscription profile of the associated user has similar characteristics as the profile of other users
whose Diameter session has been assigned to one or multiple groups. A single command can be
issued and applied to all sessions associated with one or more such groups, e.g., to adjust
common profile or policy settings.

The assignment of a Diameter session to a group can be changed during an ongoing session (mid-
session). For example, if a user's subscription profile changes mid-session, a Diameter server may
remove a session from an existing group and assign this session to a different group that is more
appropriate for the new subscription profile.

In the case of mobile users, the user's session may get transferred mid-session to a new Diameter
client during handover and assigned to a different group, which is maintained at the new
Diameter client.

It may be required to delete a session group, e.g., at the expiry of a promotional period that
applied to multiple subscriber profiles. Deletion of such group requires subsequent individual
treatment of each of the assigned sessions. A node may decide to assign some of these sessions to
any other existing or new group.

3.2.  Issuing Group Commands

Changes in the network condition may result in the Diameter server's decision to close all
sessions in a given group. For example, the server issues a single Session Termination Request
(STR) command, including the identifier of the group of sessions that are to be terminated. The
Diameter client treats the STR as a group command and initiates the termination of all sessions

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9390

Diameter Group Signaling

April 2023

associated with the identified group. Subsequently, the client confirms the successful termination
of these sessions to the server by sending a single Session Termination Answer (STA) command,
which includes the identifier of the group.

3.3.  Permission Considerations

Permission considerations in the context of this document apply to the permission of Diameter
nodes to build new session groups, to assign/remove a session to/from a session group, and to
delete an existing session group.

When a client or server decides to create a new session group, e.g., to group all sessions that
share certain characteristics, this node builds a session group identifier according to the rules
described in Section 7.3 and becomes the owner of the group.

After the creation of a session group, a session can be added to this session group by either the
client or the server. However, a session can only be removed from a session group by the
Diameter node (client or server) that has assigned this session to the session group.

A session group can only be deleted by the owner of the session group, resulting in individual
treatment of the sessions that were assigned to this session group.

Diameter applications with implicit support for session groups
permission model. For example, a more constrained model could require that a client not
remove a session from a group that is owned by the server. Details about enforcing a more
constrained permission model are out of scope of this specification.

 define a more constrained

MAY

4.  Protocol Description

4.1.  Session Grouping Capability Discovery

Diameter nodes
advertised support for session grouping and group operations.

SHOULD NOT

 perform group operations with peer nodes unless the node has

4.1.1.  Capability Discovery Based on the Application Id

Newly defined Diameter applications may intrinsically support Diameter session grouping and
group operations. In these cases, there is no need of a specific discovery mechanism for the
support of session grouping capability besides the discovery of the Application Id assigned to the
application advertised during the capability exchange phase described in
[RFC6733]
.

Section 5.3 of

System-specific and deployment-specific means, as well as out-of-band mechanisms for capability
discovery, can be used to announce nodes' support for session grouping and session group
operations. In such case, the optional Session-Group-Capability-Vector AVP, as described in
Section 4.1.2, can be omitted in Diameter messages being exchanged between nodes.

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9390

Diameter Group Signaling

April 2023

4.1.2.  Capability Discovery Based on AVP Presence

If no other mechanism for capability discovery is deployed to enable Diameter nodes to learn
about nodes' capability to support session grouping and group commands for a given
application, a Diameter node
Diameter application messages exchanged with the other Diameter nodes to announce its
capability to support session grouping and session group operations for the advertised
application. Implementations following the specification as per this document
MUST
BASE_SESSION_GROUP_CAPABILITY flag of the Session-Group-Capability-Vector AVP.

 append the Session-Group-Capability-Vector AVP to any

SHOULD

 set the

When a Diameter node receives at least one Session-Group-Capability-Vector AVP from a node
with the BASE_SESSION_GROUP_CAPABILITY flag set, the receiving Diameter node discovers the
supported session grouping capability of the sending Diameter node for the advertised
application and
with the peer identity / Application Id pair (see

 cache this information for the lifetime of the routing table entry associated
Section 2.7 of [RFC6733]

MUST

).

4.2.  Session Grouping

This specification does not limit the number of session groups to which a single session is
assigned. It is left to the implementation of an application to determine such limitations. If an
application facilitates a session to belong to multiple session groups, the application
maintain consistency of associated application session states for these multiple session groups.

MUST

Either Diameter node (client or server) can initiate the assignment of a session to a single or
multiple session groups. Modification of a group by removing or adding a single or multiple user
sessions can be initiated and performed mid-session by either Diameter node responsible for the
session assignment to this group. Although Diameter is a peer-to-peer protocol, Diameter
Authentication, Authorization, and Accounting (AAA) applications typically assign the role of a
"Diameter client" to the Diameter node initiating the Diameter session and the role of "Diameter
server" to the node authorizing the Diameter session. This specification does not restrict group
creation, assignment, or deletion actions to a specific role. In the following sections, "Diameter
node" is used to refer to either role. Section 5 describes particularities about session grouping
and performing group commands when relay agents or proxies are deployed.

Any Diameter node that has advertised support of session grouping and group operations
MUST
store and maintain the group assignment as part of the session's state. A list of all known session
groups is locally maintained on each node, with each group pointing to individual sessions being
assigned to the group. Each Diameter node
assigned to a session group.

 also keep a record about sessions that it has

MUST

4.2.1.  Group Assignment at Session Initiation

To assign a session to a group at session initiation, a Diameter client sends a service-specific
[RFC7155]
request, e.g., Network Access Server Requirements (NASREQ) AA-Request
 be identified by a unique
one or more session group identifiers. Each of these groups
Session-Group-Id contained in a separate Session-Group-Info AVP, as specified in Section 7.

MUST

, containing

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9390

Diameter Group Signaling

April 2023

The client may choose one or multiple session groups from a list of existing session groups.
Alternatively, the client may decide to create a new group to which the session is assigned and
identify itself in the <DiameterIdentity> portion of the Session-Group-Id AVP, as per Section 7.3.
For all assignments of a session to an active session group made by the client or the server, the
SESSION_GROUP_STATUS flag in the Session-Group-Info AVP, which identifies the session group,
MUST
just been created or is still active.

 be set. A set SESSION_GROUP_STATUS flag indicates that the identified session group has

MUST

 set the SESSION_GROUP_ALLOCATION_ACTION flag of the Session-Group-

The client
Control-Vector AVP in each appended Session-Group-Info AVP to indicate that the session
contained in the request should be assigned to the identified session group.

The client may also indicate in the request that it supports assignment of the session to one or
more groups by the server. In such case, the client
the request, including the Session-Group-Control-Vector AVP with the
SESSION_GROUP_ALLOCATION_ACTION flag set but no Session-Group-Id AVP.

 include the Session-Group-Info AVP in

MUST

If the Diameter server receives a command request from a Diameter client and the command
includes at least one Session-Group-Info AVP with the SESSION_GROUP_ALLOCATION_ACTION
flag in the Session-Group-Control-Vector AVP set, the server can accept or reject the request for
group assignment. Reasons for rejection may be, e.g., lack of resources for managing additional
groups. When rejected, the session

 be assigned to any session group.

MUST NOT

If the Diameter server accepts the client's request for a group assignment, the server
MUST
the new session to each (one or more) of the identified session groups when present in the
Session- Group-Info AVP. If one or multiple identified session groups are not already stored by
the server, the server
known session groups. When sending the response to the client, e.g., a service-specific
authorization response, as per NASREQ AA-Answer
Session-Group-Info AVPs received in the client's request.

 store the one or more newly identified groups to its local list of

, the server

 include all

[RFC7155]

MUST

MUST

 assign

 add to the response the additional Session-Group-Info AVPs, each identifying a session

In addition to the one or multiple session groups identified in the client's request, the server may
decide to assign the new session to one or multiple additional groups. In such case, the server
MUST
group to which the new session is assigned by the server. Each of the Session-Group-Info AVPs
added by the server
Session-Group-Control-Vector AVP.

 have the SESSION_GROUP_ALLOCATION_ACTION flag set in the

MUST

MUST

, and

If the Diameter server rejects the client's request for a group assignment, the server sends the
response to the client, e.g., a service-specific authorization response, as per NASREQ AA-Answer
[RFC7155]
 include all Session-Group-Info AVPs received in the client's request (if any)
while clearing the SESSION_GROUP_ALLOCATION_ACTION flag of the Session-Group-Control-
Vector AVP. The server
despite rejecting the group assignment. The response sent to the client will then indicate success
in the result code. In this case, the session is treated as a single session without assignment to any
session group by the Diameter nodes.

 still accept the client's request for the identified session to proceed

MAY

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9390

Diameter Group Signaling

April 2023

If the assignment of the session to one or some of the multiple identified session groups fails, the
session group assignment is treated as a failure. In such case, the session is treated as a single
session without assignment to any session group by the Diameter nodes. The server sends the
response to the client and
assignment failed. The SESSION_GROUP_ALLOCATION_ACTION flag of included Session-Group-
Info AVPs

 include those Session-Group-Info AVPs for which the group

 be cleared.

MUST

MAY

If the Diameter server receives a command request from a Diameter client and the command
includes a Session-Group-Info AVP that does not include a Session-Group-Id AVP, the server
decide to assign the session to one or multiple session groups. For each session group to which
the server assigns the new session, the server includes a Session-Group-Info AVP with the
Session-Group-Id AVP, identifying a session group in the response sent to the client. Each of the
Session-Group-Info AVPs included by the server
SESSION_GROUP_ALLOCATION_ACTION flag of the Session-Group-Control-Vector AVP set.

 have the

MUST

MAY

If the Diameter server receives a command request from a Diameter client and the command
 assign the new session to
does not contain any Session-Group-Info AVPs, the server
any session group but treat the request the same as for a single session. The server
MUST NOT
return any Session-Group-Info AVP in the command response.

MUST NOT

If the Diameter client receives a response to its previously issued request from the server and the
response includes at least one Session-Group-Info AVP with the
SESSION_GROUP_ALLOCATION_ACTION flag of the associated Session-Group-Control-Vector AVP
set, the client
Session-Group-Info AVPs. If the Diameter client fails to add the session to one or more session
groups as identified in one or multiple Session-Group-Info AVPs, the client
 terminate the
session. The client
requesting the assignment of the session to a session group.

 add the new session to all session groups as identified in one or multiple

 send a subsequent request for session initiation to the server without

MUST

MUST

MAY

If the Diameter client receives a response to its previously issued request from the server and
one or more Session-Group-Info AVPs have the SESSION_GROUP_ALLOCATION_ACTION flag of
the associated Session-Group-Control-Vector AVP cleared, the client
assignment of the session to one or multiple groups. If the response from the server indicates
success in the result code but only the assignment of the session to a session group has been
rejected by the server, the client treats the session as a single session without group assignment.

 terminate the

MUST

If a Diameter client sends a request for session initiation containing one or more Session-Group-
Info AVPs but the response from the Diameter server does not contain a Session-Group-Info AVP,
the Diameter client
The Diameter client
MUST NOT
request group assignment for other new sessions.

 proceed as if the request was processed without group assignments.

 retry to request group assignment for this session but

 try to

MUST

MAY

4.2.2.  Removing a Session from a Session Group

When a Diameter client decides to remove a session from a particular session group, the client
sends a service-specific re-authorization request to the server and adds one Session-Group-Info
AVP to the request for each session group from which the client wants to remove the session. The
session that is to be removed from a group is identified in the Session-Id AVP of the command

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9390

Diameter Group Signaling

April 2023

request. The SESSION_GROUP_ALLOCATION_ACTION flag of the Session-Group-Control-Vector
AVP in each Session-Group-Info AVP
session group identified in the associated Session-Group-Id AVP.

 be cleared to indicate removal of the session from the

MUST

When a Diameter client decides to remove a session from all session groups to which the session
has been previously assigned, the client sends a service-specific re-authorization request to the
server and adds a single Session-Group-Info AVP to the request that has the
SESSION_GROUP_ALLOCATION_ACTION flag cleared and the Session-Group-Id AVP omitted. The
Session-Id AVP in the re-authorization request identifies the session that is to be removed from
all groups to which it had been previously assigned.

If the Diameter server receives a request from the client that has at least one Session-Group-Info
AVP appended with the SESSION_GROUP_ALLOCATION_ACTION flag cleared, the server
remove the session from the session group identified in the associated Session-Group-Id AVP. If
the request includes at least one Session-Group-Info AVP with the
SESSION_GROUP_ALLOCATION_ACTION flag cleared and no Session-Id AVP present, the server
 remove the session from all session groups to which the session has been previously
MUST
assigned. The server
AVPs received in the request.

 include in its response to the requesting client all Session-Group-Id

MUST

MUST

When the Diameter server decides to remove a session from one or multiple particular session
groups or from all session groups to which the session has been assigned beforehand, the server
sends a Re-Auth-Request (RAR) or a service-specific server-initiated request to the client,
indicating the session in the Session-Id AVP of the request. The client sends a Re-Auth-Answer
(RAA) or a service-specific answer to respond to the server's request. The client subsequently
sends a service-specific re-authorization request containing one or multiple Session-Group-Info
AVPs, each indicating a session group to which the session had been previously assigned. To
indicate removal of the indicated session from one or multiple session groups, the server sends a
service-specific authorization response to the client, containing a list of Session-Group-Info AVPs
with the SESSION_GROUP_ALLOCATION_ACTION flag cleared and the Session-Group-Id AVP
identifying the session group from which the session should be removed. The server
MAY
with the service-specific authorization response a list of Session-Group-Info AVPs with the
SESSION_GROUP_ALLOCATION_ACTION flag set and the Session-Group-Id AVP identifying
session groups to which the session remains subscribed. If the server decides to remove the
identified session from all session groups to which the session has been previously assigned, the
server includes in the service-specific authorization response at least one Session-Group-Info AVP
with the SESSION_GROUP_ALLOCATION_ACTION flag cleared and Session-Group-Id AVP absent.

 include

4.2.3.  Mid-session Group Assignment Modifications

Either Diameter node (client or server) can modify the group membership of an active Diameter
session according to the specified permission considerations.

To update an assigned group mid-session, a Diameter client sends a service-specific re-
authorization request to the server, containing one or multiple Session-Group-Info AVPs with the
SESSION_GROUP_ALLOCATION_ACTION flag set and the Session-Group-Id AVP present,
identifying the session group to which the session should be assigned. With the same message,

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9390

Diameter Group Signaling

April 2023

MAY

 send one or multiple Session-Group-Info AVPs with the

the client
SESSION_GROUP_ALLOCATION_ACTION flag cleared and the Session-Group-Id AVP identifying
the session group from which the identified session is to be removed. To remove the session from
all previously assigned session groups, the client includes at least one Session-Group-Info AVP
with the SESSION_GROUP_ALLOCATION_ACTION flag cleared and no Session-Group-Id AVP
present. When the server received the service-specific re-authorization request, it
its locally maintained view of the session groups for the identified session according to the
appended Session-Group-Info AVPs. The server sends a service-specific authorization response to
the client containing one or multiple Session-Group-Info AVPs with the
SESSION_GROUP_ALLOCATION_ACTION flag set and the Session-Group-Id AVP identifying the
new session group to which the identified session has been assigned.

 update

MUST

When a Diameter server decides to update assigned groups mid-session, it sends a Re-Auth-
Request (RAR) message or a service-specific request to the client identifying the session for which
the session group lists are to be updated. The client responds with a Re-Auth-Answer (RAA)
message or a service-specific answer. The client subsequently sends a service-specific re-
authorization request containing one or multiple Session-Group-Info AVPs with the
SESSION_GROUP_ALLOCATION_ACTION flag set and the Session-Group-Id AVP identifying the
session group to which the session had been previously assigned. The server responds with a
service-specific authorization response and includes one or multiple Session-Group-Info AVPs
with the SESSION_GROUP_ALLOCATION_ACTION flag set and the Session-Group-Id AVP
identifying the session group to which the identified session is to be assigned. With the same
response message, the server
SESSION_GROUP_ALLOCATION_ACTION flag cleared and the Session-Group-Id AVP identifying
the session groups from which the identified session is to be removed. When a server wants to
remove the session from all previously assigned session groups, it sends at least one Session-
Group-Info AVP with the response having the SESSION_GROUP_ALLOCATION_ACTION flag
cleared and no Session-Group-Id AVP present.

 send one or multiple Session-Group-Info AVPs with the

MAY

4.3.  Deleting a Session Group

To explicitly delete a session group and release the associated Session-Group-Id value, the owner
of a session group appends a single Session-Group-Info AVP with the SESSION_GROUP_STATUS
flag cleared and the Session-Group-Id AVP identifying the session group that is to be deleted. The
SESSION_GROUP_ALLOCATION_ACTION flag of the associated Session-Group-Control-Vector AVP
MUST

 be cleared.

A session group is implicitly deleted and its identifier is released after the last session has been
removed from this session group.

4.4.  Performing Group Operations

4.4.1.  Sending Group Commands

Either Diameter node (client or server) can request the recipient of a request to process an
associated command for all sessions assigned to one or multiple groups by identifying these
groups in the request. The sender of the request appends for each group to which the command

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9390

Diameter Group Signaling

April 2023

applies a Session-Group-Info AVP including the Session-Group-Id AVP to identify the associated
session group. Both the SESSION_GROUP_ALLOCATION_ACTION flag and the
 be set.
SESSION_GROUP_STATUS flag

MUST

If the Command Code Format (CCF) of the request mandates a Session-Id AVP, the Session-Id AVP
 identify one of the single sessions that is assigned to at least one of the groups being
MUST
identified in the appended Session-Group-Id AVPs.

MUST

 indicate to the receiver how multiple resulting transactions

The sender of the request
associated with a group command are to be treated by appending a single instance of a Group-
Response-Action AVP. For example, when a server sends a Re-Auth-Request (RAR) or a service-
specific server-initiated request to the client, it indicates to the client to follow the request
according to one of three possible procedures. When the server sets the Group-Response-Action
AVP to ALL_GROUPS (1), the client sends a single RAR message for all identified groups. When the
server sets the Group-Response-Action AVP to PER_GROUP (2), the client sends a single RAR
message for each identified group individually. When the server sets the Group-Response-Action
AVP to PER_SESSION (3), the client follows up with a single RAR message per impacted session. If
a session is included in more than one of the identified session groups, the client sends only one
RAR message for that session.

If the sender sends a request including the Group-Response-Action AVP set to ALL_GROUPS (1) or
PER_GROUP (2), it has to expect some delay before receiving one or more corresponding
answers, as the answers will only be sent back when the request is processed for all the sessions
or all the sessions of a session group. If the processing of the request is delay sensitive, the sender
SHOULD NOT
answer can be sent before the complete process of the request for all the sessions or if the
request timeout timer is high enough, the sender
ALL_GROUPS (1) or PER_GROUP (2).

 set the Group-Response-Action AVP to ALL_GROUPS (1) or PER_GROUP (2). If the

 set the Group-Response-Action AVP to

MAY

If the sender wants the receiver of the request to process the associated command for a single
session, the sender does not append any group identifier; it identifies only the relevant session in
the Session-Id AVP.

4.4.2.  Receiving Group Commands

A Diameter node receiving a request to process a command for a group of sessions identifies the
relevant groups according to the included Session-Group-Id AVP in the Session-Group-Info AVP
and processes the group command according to the included Group-Response-Action AVP. If the
received request identifies multiple groups in multiple, included Session-Group-Id AVPs, the
receiver
assigned to more than one of the identified groups, the receiver
command only once per session.

 process the associated command for each of these groups. If a session has been

 process the associated

SHOULD

MUST

4.4.3.  Error Handling for Group Commands

When a Diameter node receives a request to process a command for one or more session groups
and the result of processing the command is an error that applies to all sessions in the identified
 be returned to the source of the request. In such case,
groups, an associated protocol error

MUST

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9390

Diameter Group Signaling

April 2023

the sender of the request
which have been identified in the group command,
described in Section 4.3.

MUST

 fall back to single-session processing and the session groups,

MUST

 be deleted according to the procedure

When a Diameter node receives a request to process a command for one or more session groups
and the result of processing the command succeeds for some sessions identified in one or
multiple session groups but fails for one or more sessions, the Result-Code AVP in the response
message

 indicate DIAMETER_LIMITED_SUCCESS, as per

Section 7.1.2 of [RFC6733]
.

SHOULD

 be identified by including their Session-Id AVP in the Failed-AVP AVP, as per

In the case of limited success, the sessions for which the processing of the group command failed
MUST
[RFC6733]
identified sessions for which the group command failed. In addition, each of these sessions
be removed from all session groups to which the group command applied. To remove sessions
from a session group, the Diameter client performs the procedure described in Section 4.2.2.

 fall back to single-session operation for each of the

. The sender of the request

Section 7.5 of

MUST

MUST

4.4.4.  Single-Session Fallback

Either Diameter node can fall back to single-session operation by ignoring and omitting the
optional group-session-specific AVPs. Fallback to single-session operation is performed by
processing the Diameter command solely for the session identified in the mandatory Session-Id
AVP. In such case, the response to the group command
but only the Session-Id identifying the session for which the command has been processed.

 include any group identifier

MUST NOT

5.  Operation with Proxy Agents

MUST

In the case of a present stateful Proxy Agent between a Diameter client and a Diameter server,
 perform the same mechanisms per this specification to advertise session
the Proxy Agent
grouping and group operation capabilities towards the client and the server, respectively. The
Proxy Agent
 update and maintain consistency of its local session states as per the result of
the group commands that are operated between a Diameter client and a server. In such case, the
 act as a
 act as a Diameter server in front of the Diameter client and
Proxy Agent
Diameter client in front of the Diameter server. Therefore, the client and the server behavior
described in Section 4 applies respectively to the stateful Proxy Agent.

MUST

MUST

MUST

MUST

 maintain consistency of session

If a stateful Proxy Agent manipulates session groups, it
groups between a client and a server. This applies to a deployment where the Proxy Agent
utilizes session grouping and performs group operations with, for example, a Diameter server,
whereas the Diameter client is not aware of session groups. In such case, the Proxy Agent must
reflect the states associated with the session groups as individual session operations towards the
client and ensure the client has a consistent view of each session. The same applies to a
deployment where all nodes, the Diameter client and server, as well as the Proxy Agent are
group aware, but the Proxy Agent manipulates groups, e.g., to adopt different administrative
policies that apply to the client's domain and the server's domain.

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9390

Diameter Group Signaling

April 2023

Stateless Proxy Agents do not maintain any session states (only transaction states are
maintained). Consequently, the notion of a session group is transparent for any stateless Proxy
Agent present between a Diameter client and a Diameter server handling session groups.
Session-group-related AVPs being defined as an optional AVP are ignored by stateless Proxy
Agents and should not be removed from the Diameter commands. If they are removed by the
Proxy Agent for any reason, the Diameter client and Diameter server will discover the absence of
the session-group-related AVPs and will fall back to single-session processing, as described in
Section 4.

6.  Commands Formatting

This document does not specify new Diameter commands to enable group operations but relies
on command extensibility and capability provided by the Diameter Base protocol. This section
provides the guidelines to extend the CCF of existing Diameter commands with optional AVPs to
enable the recipient of the command to apply the command to all sessions associated with the
identified group or groups.

6.1.  Formatting Example: Group Re-Auth-Request

A request for re-authentication of one or more groups of users is issued by appending one or
multiple Session-Group-Id AVPs, as well as appending a single instance of a Group-Response-
Action AVP to the Re-Auth-Request (RAR). One or multiple Session-Group-Id AVPs identify one or
more associated groups for which group re-authentication has been requested. The Group-
Response-Action AVP identifies the expected means to perform and respond to the group
command. The recipient of the group command initiates re-authentication for all users
associated with the identified group or groups. Furthermore, the sender of the group re-
authentication request appends a Group-Response-Action AVP to provide more information to
the receiver of the command about how to accomplish the group operation.

The value of the mandatory Session-Id AVP
 identify a session associated with a single user,
which is assigned to at least one of the groups being identified in the appended Session-Group-Id
AVPs.

MUST

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9390

Diameter Group Signaling

April 2023

      <RAR>  ::= < Diameter Header: 258, REQ, PXY >
                 < Session-Id >
                 { Origin-Host }
                 { Origin-Realm }
                 { Destination-Realm }
                 { Destination-Host }
                 { Auth-Application-Id }
                 { Re-Auth-Request-Type }
                 [ User-Name ]
                 [ Origin-State-Id ]
               * [ Proxy-Info ]
               * [ Route-Record ]
                 [ Session-Group-Capability-Vector ]
               * [ Session-Group-Info ]
                 [ Group-Response-Action ]
               * [ AVP ]

7.  Attribute-Value Pairs (AVPs)

Attribute Name

AVP Code Value
Type

AVP Flag rules

MUST MAY

SHOULD

NOT

MUST

NOT

Session-Group-Info

671 Grouped

Session-Group-Control-
Vector

672 Unsigned32

Session-Group-Id

673 UTF8String

Group-Response-Action

674 Unsigned32

Session-Group-Capability-
Vector

675 Unsigned32

Table 1: AVPs for the Diameter Group Signaling

7.1.  Session-Group-Info AVP

P

P

P

P

P

V

V

V

V

V

The Session-Group-Info AVP (AVP Code 671) is of type Grouped. It contains the identifier of the
session group, as well as an indication of the node responsible for session group identifier
assignment.

   Session-Group-Info ::= < AVP Header: 671 >
                          < Session-Group-Control-Vector >
                          [ Session-Group-Id ]
                        * [ AVP ]

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9390

Diameter Group Signaling

April 2023

7.2.  Session-Group-Control-Vector AVP

The Session-Group-Control-Vector AVP (AVP Code 672) is of type Unsigned32 and contains a 32-bit
flag field to control the group assignment at session-group-aware nodes. For defined flags, only
numeric values that are 2x (power of two, where 0<=x<32) are allowed.

The following control flags are defined in this document:

SESSION_GROUP_ALLOCATION_ACTION (0x00000001)

This flag indicates the action to be performed for the identified session. When this flag is set,
it indicates that the identified Diameter session is to be assigned to the session group
identified by the Session-Group-Id AVP or the session's assignment to the session group
identified in the Session-Group-Id AVP is still valid. When the flag is cleared, the identified
Diameter session is to be removed from at least one session group. When the flag is cleared
and the Session-Group-Info AVP identifies a particular session group in the associated
Session-Group-Id AVP, the session is to be removed solely from the identified session group.
When the flag is cleared and the Session-Group-Info AVP does not identify a particular
session group (Session-Group-Id AVP is absent), the identified Diameter session is to be
removed from all session groups to which it has been previously assigned.

SESSION_GROUP_STATUS (0x00000010)

This flag indicates the status of the session group identified in the associated Session-Group-
Id AVP. The flag is set when the identified session group has just been created or is still active.
If the flag is cleared, the identified session group is deleted and the associated Session-Group-
Id is released. If the Session-Group-Info AVP does not include a Session-Group-Id AVP, this
flag is meaningless and

 be ignored by the receiver.

MUST

7.3.  Session-Group-Id AVP

The Session-Group-Id AVP (AVP Code 673) is of type UTF8String and identifies a group of
Diameter sessions.

MUST

 be globally unique. The Session-Group-Id includes a mandatory
The Session-Group-Id
portion and an implementation-defined portion delimited by the ";" character. The Session-
Group-Id
remainder of the Session-Group-Id is implementation defined and
recommended for the implementation-defined portion of the Session-Id AVP in
[RFC6733]
.

 begin with the identity of the Diameter node that owns the session group. The

 follow the format

Section 8.8 of

MUST

MAY

7.4.  Group-Response-Action AVP

The Group-Response-Action AVP (AVP Code 674) is of type Unsigned32 and contains a 32-bit
address space representing values indicating how the node
response to a command that impacts multiple sessions. The following values are defined by this
document:

 issue follow-up exchanges in

SHOULD

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9390

Diameter Group Signaling

April 2023

ALL_GROUPS (1)

Follow-up message exchanges associated with a group command should be performed with a
single message exchange for all impacted groups.

PER_GROUP (2)

Follow-up message exchanges associated with a group command should be performed with a
separate message exchange for each impacted group.

PER_SESSION (3)

Follow-up message exchanges associated with a group command should be performed with a
separate message exchange for each impacted session.

7.5.  Session-Group-Capability-Vector AVP

The Session-Group-Capability-Vector AVP (AVP Code 675) is of type Unsigned32 and contains a 32-
bit flag field to indicate capabilities in the context of session-group assignment and group
operations. For defined flags, only numeric values that are 2x (power of two, where 0<=x<32) are
allowed. The value of (0) is reserved.

The following capability is defined in this document:

BASE_SESSION_GROUP_CAPABILITY (0x00000001)

This flag indicates the capability to support session grouping and session group operations
according to this specification.

8.  Result-Code AVP Values

This document does not define new Result-Code
which are extended to support group commands. Documents specifying new applications, which
will have intrinsic support for group commands, may specify new Result-Codes.

 values for existing applications,

[RFC6733]

9.  IANA Considerations

This section contains the namespaces that have either been created in this specification or had
their values assigned to existing namespaces managed by IANA.

9.1.  AVP Codes

IANA has registered the following new AVPs from the "AVP Codes" registry defined in
The AVPs are defined in Section 7.

[RFC6733]
.

•

Session-Group-Info

•

Session-Group-Control-Vector

•

Session-Group-Id

•

Group-Response-Action

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9390

Diameter Group Signaling

April 2023

•

Session-Group-Capability-Vector

9.2.  New Registries

IANA has created the following two new registries.

•

The "Session-Group-Control-Vector AVP Values (code 672)" registry for control bits. Two
initial assignments are described in Section 7.2. The registration assignment policy is
Specification Required.

•

The "Session-Group-Capability-Vector AVP Values (code 675)" registry. One initial assignment
is described in Section 7.5. The registration assignment policy is Standards Action.

10.  Security Considerations

The security considerations of the Diameter protocol itself are discussed in
AVPs defined in this document
requirements of the Diameter base protocol. In particular, the Session-Group-Info AVP (including
the Session-Group-Control-Vector and the Session-Group-Id AVPs) should be considered as a
security-sensitive AVP in the same manner as the Session-Id AVP in the Diameter base protocol
[RFC6733]
.

 take into consideration the security issues and

. Use of the

[RFC6733]

MUST

The management of session groups relies upon the existing trust relationship between the
Diameter client and the Diameter server managing the groups of sessions. This document defines
a mechanism that allows a client or a server to act on multiple sessions at the same time using
only one command. If the Diameter client or server is compromised, an attacker could launch
DoS attacks by terminating or applying change operations to a large number of sessions with a
limited set of commands using the session group management concept.

[RFC6733]

, transport connections between Diameter

According to the Diameter base protocol
peers are protected by TLS/TCP, DTLS / Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP), or
alternative security mechanisms that are independent of Diameter, such as IPsec. However, the
lack of end-to-end security features makes it difficult to establish trust in the session-group-
related information received from non-adjacent nodes. Any Diameter agent in the message path
can potentially modify the content of the message and therefore the information sent by the
Diameter client or the server. There is ongoing work on the specification of end-to-end security
features for Diameter. Such features would enable the establishment of a trust relationship
between non-adjacent nodes, and the security required for session group management would
normally rely on this end-to-end security. However, there is no assumption in this document that
such end-to-end security mechanism will be available. It is only assumed that the solution
defined on this document relies on the security framework provided by the Diameter-based
protocol.

In some cases, a Diameter Proxy Agent can act on behalf of a client or a server. In such case, the
security requirements that normally apply to a client (or a server) apply equally to the Proxy
Agent.

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9390

Diameter Group Signaling

April 2023

11.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC6733]

[RFC7155]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Fajardo, V., Ed. Arkko, J. Loughney, J.
, and
Protocol" RFC 6733 DOI 10.17487/RFC6733
editor.org/info/rfc6733>

,

.

,

,

G. Zorn, Ed. "Diameter Base
, October 2012,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Zorn, G., Ed. "Diameter Network Access Server Application" RFC 7155 DOI
10.17487/RFC7155

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7155>

, April 2014,

,

,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Appendix A.  Session Management -- Exemplary Session State
Machine

A.1.  Use of Groups for the Authorization Session State Machine

 defines a set of finite state machines that represent the life cycle of

Section 8.1 of [RFC6733]
Diameter sessions, which must be observed by all Diameter implementations that make use of
the authentication and/or authorization portion of a Diameter application. This section defines,
for example, additional state transitions related to the processing of the group commands that
may impact multiple sessions.

The group membership is a session state, and therefore only those state machines from
[RFC6733]
[RFC6733]
(e.g., Mobile IPv4 or NASREQ).

 in which the server is maintaining session state are relevant in this document. As in
, the term 'service-specific' below refers to a message defined in a Diameter application

The following state machine is observed by a client when the state is maintained on the server.
[RFC6733]
State transitions that are unmodified from

 are not repeated here.

The Diameter group command in the following tables is differentiated from a single-session-
related command by a preceding 'G' (Group). A Group Re-Auth Request, which applies to one or
multiple session groups, has been exemplarily described in Section 6.1. Such Group RAR
command is denoted as 'GRAR' in the following table. The same notation applies to other
commands, as per

[RFC6733]
.

Additionally, the following acronyms are used in the tables below.

GASR:

Group-Abort-Session-Request

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9390

Diameter Group Signaling

April 2023

GASA:

Group-Abort-Session-Answer

GSTA:

Group-Session-Termination-Answer

GSTR:

Group-Session-Termination-Request

CLIENT, STATEFUL

State

Event

Idle

Client or Device Requests access

GASR received with Group-Response-
Action = ALL_GROUPS, session is assigned
to received group(s) and client will comply
with request to end the session

GASR received with Group-Response-
Action = PER_GROUPS, session is assigned
to received group(s) and client will comply
with request to end the session

GASR received with Group-Response-
Action = PER_SESSION, session is assigned
to received group(s) and client will comply
with request to end the session

Open

Open

Open

Open

Action

Send service-specific
authorization req
optionally including
groups

New
State

Pending

Send GASA Result-Code
= SUCCESS, Send GSTR

Discon

Send GASA with Result-
Code = SUCCESS, Send
GSTR per group

Discon

Send GASA with Result-
Code = SUCCESS, Send
STR per session

Discon

GASR received, client will not comply with
request to end all sessions in received
group(s)

Send GASA with Result-
Code != SUCCESS

Open

Discon

GSTA received

Discon. user/device

Idle

Open

Open

GRAR received with Group-Response-
Action = ALL_GROUPS, session is assigned
to received group(s) and client will
perform subsequent re-auth

Send GRAA, Send
service-specific group
re-auth req

Pending

GRAR received with Group-Response-
Action = PER_GROUP, session is assigned to
received group(s) and client will perform
subsequent re-auth

Send GRAA, Send
service-specific group
re-auth req per group

Pending

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9390

Diameter Group Signaling

April 2023

CLIENT, STATEFUL

State

Event

Action

Open

GRAR received with Group-Response-
Action = PER_SESSION, session is assigned
to received group(s) and client will
perform subsequent re-auth

Send GRAA, Send
service-specific re-auth
req per session

New
State

Pending

Open

GRAR received and client will not perform
subsequent re-auth

Pending

Successful service-specific group re-
authorization answer received

Send GRAA with Result-
Code != SUCCESS,
Discon. user/device

Idle

Provide service

Open

Pending

Failed service-specific group re-
authorization answer received

Discon. user/device

Idle

Table 2: Group Authorization Session State Machine for Stateful Client

The following state machine is observed by a server when it is maintaining the state for the
session. State transitions that are unmodified from

 are not repeated here.

[RFC6733]

SERVER, STATEFUL

State

Event

Action

Idle

Service-specific authorization
request received, and user is
authorized

Send successful service-
specific answer optionally
including groups

Open

Server wants to terminate group(s)

Send GASR

Discon

GASA received

Cleanup

Any

GSTR received

Send GSTA, Cleanup

Open

Server wants to reauth group(s)

Send GRAR

Pending

GRAA received with Result-Code =
SUCCESS

Update session(s)

New
State

Open

Discon

Idle

Idle

Pending

Open

Pending

GRAA received with Result-Code !=
SUCCESS

Cleanup session(s)

Idle

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9390

Diameter Group Signaling

April 2023

SERVER, STATEFUL

State

Event

Action

Open

Open

Service-specific group re-
authorization request received and
user is authorized

Send successful service-
specific group re-auth
answer

Service-specific group re-
authorization request received and
user is not authorized

Send failed service-specific
group re-auth answer,
Cleanup

Table 3: Group Authorization Session State Machine for Stateful Server

Acknowledgments

New
State

Open

Idle

The authors of this document want to thank
comments to early draft versions of this document. Furthermore, the authors thank
Donovan
WG document, which helped a lot to improve this specification.

 for the thorough review and comments on advanced versions of the

 for their valuable
Steve

Eric McMurry

Ben Campbell

Mark Bales

 and

 and

Authors' Addresses

Mark Jones
Individual
Email:

 mark@azu.ca

Marco Liebsch
NEC Laboratories Europe GmbH
Kurfuersten-Anlage 36
D-69115 Heidelberg
Germany
Email:

 marco.liebsch@neclab.eu

Lionel Morand
Orange Labs
38/40 rue du General Leclerc
92794 Issy-Les-Moulineaux Cedex 9
France
Email:

 lionel.morand@orange.com

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

