Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9322
Standards Track
November 2022
2070-1721
T. Mizrahi
Huawei

F. Brockners
Cisco

S. Bhandari
Thoughtspot

B. Gafni
Nvidia

M. Spiegel
Barefoot Networks

RFC 9322
In Situ Operations, Administration, and Maintenance
(IOAM) Loopback and Active Flags

Abstract

In situ Operations, Administration, and Maintenance (IOAM) collects operational and telemetry
information in packets while they traverse a path between two points in the network. This
document defines two new flags in the IOAM Trace Option headers, specifically the Loopback
and Active flags.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9322
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in effect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Mizrahi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9322

IOAM Flags

November 2022

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Conventions

2.1.  Requirements Language

2.2.  Terminology

3.  New IOAM Trace Option Flags

4.  Loopback in IOAM

4.1.  Loopback: Encapsulating Node Functionality

4.1.1.  Loopback Packet Selection

4.2.  Receiving and Processing Loopback

4.3.  Loopback on the Return Path

4.4.  Terminating a Looped-Back Packet

5.  Active Measurement with IOAM

6.  IANA Considerations

7.  Performance Considerations

8.  Security Considerations

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

[RFC9197]

IOAM
into in-flight data packets.

 is used for monitoring traffic in the network by incorporating IOAM data fields

Mizrahi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9322

IOAM Flags

November 2022

IOAM data may be represented in one of four possible IOAM options: Pre-allocated Trace,
Incremental Trace, Proof of Transit (POT), and Edge-to-Edge. This document defines two new
flags in the Pre-allocated and Incremental Trace options: the Loopback and Active flags.

The Loopback flag is used to request that each transit device along the path loops back a
truncated copy of the data packet to the sender. The Active flag indicates that a packet is used for
active measurement. The term "active measurement" in the context of this document is as
defined in

[RFC7799]
.

2.  Conventions

2.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.2.  Terminology

Abbreviations used in this document:

IOAM:

In situ Operations, Administration, and Maintenance

OAM:

Operations, Administration, and Maintenance

[RFC6291]

3.  New IOAM Trace Option Flags

This document defines two new flags in the Pre-allocated and Incremental Trace options:

Bit 1 "Loopback" (L-bit):

When set, the Loopback flag triggers the sending of a copy of a packet

back towards the source, as further described in Section 4.

Bit 2 "Active" (A-bit):

When set, the Active flag indicates that a packet is an active measurement
. The

packet rather than a data packet, where "active" is used in the sense defined in
packet may be an IOAM probe packet or a replicated data packet (the second and third use
cases of Section 5).

[RFC7799]

4.  Loopback in IOAM

The Loopback flag is used to request that each transit device along the path loops back a
truncated copy of the data packet to the sender. Loopback allows an IOAM encapsulating node to
trace the path to a given destination and to receive per-hop data about both the forward and

Mizrahi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9322

IOAM Flags

November 2022

return paths. Loopback is intended to provide an accelerated alternative to Traceroute that
allows the encapsulating node to receive responses from multiple transit nodes along the path in
less than one round-trip time (RTT) and by sending a single packet.

As illustrated in Figure 1, an IOAM encapsulating node can push an IOAM encapsulation that
includes the Loopback flag onto some or all of the packets it forwards using one of the IOAM
encapsulation types, e.g.,
decapsulating node both create copies of the packet and loop them back to the encapsulating
node. The decapsulating node also terminates the IOAM encapsulation and then forwards the
packet towards the destination. The two IOAM looped-back copies are terminated by the
encapsulating node.

[IOAM-IPV6-OPTIONS]

. The IOAM transit node and the

[IOAM-NSH]

 or

+--------+     +--------+     +--------+     +--------+     +--------+
|        |     |  IOAM  |.....|  IOAM  |.....|  IOAM  |     |        |
+--------+     +--------+     +--------+     +--------+     +--------+
| L2/L3  |<===>| L2/L3  |<===>| L2/L3  |<===>| L2/L3  |<===>| L2/L3  |
+--------+     +--------+     +--------+     +--------+     +--------+
  Source      Encapsulating    Transit      Decapsulating   Destination
                   Node           Node           Node

               <------------  IOAM-Domain  ----------->

                    IOAM encap. with Loopback flag
Data packet  ------->============================>----------->
                                  |             |
                 IOAM looped back |             |
                    <=============+             |
                                IOAM looped back|
                    <===========================+

Figure 1: Loopback in IOAM

Loopback can be used only if a return path from transit nodes and destination nodes towards the
source (encapsulating node) exists. Specifically, loopback is only applicable in encapsulations in
which the identity of the encapsulating node is available in the encapsulation header. If an
encapsulating node receives a looped-back packet that was not originated from the current
encapsulating node, the packet is dropped.

4.1.  Loopback: Encapsulating Node Functionality

The encapsulating node either generates synthetic packets with an IOAM trace option that has
the Loopback flag set or sets the Loopback flag in a subset of the in-transit data packets.
Loopback is used either proactively or on-demand, i.e., when a failure is detected. The
encapsulating node also needs to ensure that sufficient space is available in the IOAM header for
loopback operation, which includes transit nodes adding trace data on the original path and
again on the return path.

Mizrahi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9322

IOAM Flags

November 2022

An IOAM trace option that has the Loopback flag set
significant bit of IOAM-Trace-Type and '0' in the rest of the bits of IOAM-Trace-Type. Thus, every
transit node that processes this trace option only adds a single data field, which is the Hop_Lim
and node_id data field. A transit node that receives a packet with an IOAM trace option that has
the Loopback flag set and the IOAM-Trace-Type is not equal to '1' in the most significant bit and
'0' in the rest of the bits
single data field per hop is to minimize the impact of amplification attacks.

 loop back a copy of the packet. The reason for allowing only a

 have the value '1' in the most

MUST NOT

MUST

IOAM encapsulating nodes
data packets that already include an IOAM encapsulation. This requirement is intended to
prevent IOAM Loopback nesting where looped-back packets may be subject to loopback in a
nested IOAM-Domain.

 push an IOAM encapsulation with the Loopback flag onto

MUST NOT

4.1.1.  Loopback Packet Selection

If an IOAM encapsulating node incorporates the Loopback flag into all the traffic it forwards, it
may lead to an excessive amount of looped back packets, which may overload the network and
the encapsulating node. Therefore, an IOAM encapsulating node that supports the Loopback flag
 support the ability to incorporate the Loopback flag selectively into a subset of the packets
MUST
that are forwarded by it.

Various methods of packet selection and sampling have been previously defined, such as
[RFC7014]
apply loopback to a subset of the forwarded traffic.

. Similar techniques can be applied by an IOAM encapsulating node to

[RFC5475]

 and

SHOULD NOT

The subset of traffic that is forwarded or transmitted with a Loopback flag
 exceed 1/
N of the interface capacity on any of the IOAM encapsulating node's interfaces. This requirement
applies to the total traffic that incorporates a Loopback flag, including traffic that is forwarded by
the IOAM encapsulating node and probe packets that are generated by the IOAM encapsulating
node. In this context, N is a parameter that can be configurable by network operators. If there is
an upper bound, M, on the number of IOAM transit nodes in any path in the network, then
configuring N such that N >> M (i.e., N is much greater than M) is
is that a packet that includes the Loopback flag triggers a looped-back packet from each IOAM
transit node along the path for a total of M looped-back packets. Thus, if N >> M, then the number
of looped-back packets is significantly lower than the number of data packets forwarded by the
 that the default value of N satisfies N>100 to be
IOAM encapsulating node. It is
used in the absence of explicit operator configuration or if there is no prior knowledge about the
network topology or size.

. The rationale

RECOMMENDED

RECOMMENDED

An IOAM-Domain in which the Loopback flag is used
expected to be a return path from each of the IOAM transit and IOAM decapsulating nodes; if this
expectation does not apply, or if the encapsulating node's identity is not available in the
 enable the Loopback flag to be set.
encapsulation header, then configuration

 be configured such that there is

MUST NOT

MUST

Mizrahi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9322

IOAM Flags

November 2022

4.2.  Receiving and Processing Loopback

A Loopback flag that is set indicates to the transit nodes processing this option that they are to
create a copy of the received packet and send the copy back to the source of the packet. In this
context, the source is the IOAM encapsulating node and it is assumed that the source address is
available in the encapsulation header. Thus, the source address of the original packet is used as
the destination address in the copied packet. If IOAM is used over an encapsulation that does not
include the address of the encapsulating node, then the transit/decapsulating node does not loop
back a copy of the original packet. The address of the node performing the copy operation is used
as the source address; the specific method of source address assignment is encapsulation specific,
e.g., if an IPv6 encapsulation is used, then the source address can be assigned as specified in
[RFC6724]
removed before transmitting the looped-back packet back towards the encapsulating node.
Creating the copy that is looped back, and specifically the truncation, may require some
encapsulation-specific updates in the encapsulation header. The original packet continues
towards its destination. The L-bit
back towards the source.

. The copy is also truncated, i.e., any payload that resides after the IOAM option(s) is

 be cleared in the copy of the packet that a node sends

MUST

An IOAM node that supports the reception and processing of the Loopback flag
ability to limit the rate of the looped-back packets. The rate of looped-back packets
SHOULD
limited so that the number of looped-back packets is significantly lower than the number of
packets that are forwarded by the device. The looped-back data rate
the interface capacity on any of the IOAM node's interfaces. Using N>100 is
Depending on the IOAM node's architecture considerations, the loopback response rate may be
limited to a lower number in order to avoid overloading the IOAM node.

.
RECOMMENDED

SHOULD NOT

 exceed 1/N of

MUST

 be

 support the

4.3.  Loopback on the Return Path

On its way back towards the source, the copied packet is processed like any other packet with
IOAM information, including adding requested data at each transit node (assuming there is
sufficient space).

4.4.  Terminating a Looped-Back Packet

Once the return packet reaches the IOAM-Domain boundary, IOAM decapsulation occurs as with
any other packet containing IOAM information. Note that the looped-back packet does not have
the L-bit set. The IOAM encapsulating node that initiated the original loopback packet recognizes
a received packet as an IOAM looped-back packet by checking the Node ID in the Hop_Lim/
node_id field that corresponds to the first hop. If the Node ID and IOAM-Namespace match the
current IOAM node, it indicates that this is a looped-back packet that was initiated by the current
IOAM node and processed accordingly. If there is no match in the Node ID, the packet is
processed like a conventional IOAM-encapsulated packet.

Note that an IOAM encapsulating node may be either an endpoint (such as an IPv6 host) or a
switch/router that pushes a tunnel encapsulation onto data packets. In both cases, the
functionality that was described above avoids IOAM data leaks from the IOAM-Domain.

Mizrahi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9322

IOAM Flags

November 2022

Specifically, if an IOAM looped-back packet reaches an IOAM boundary node that is not the IOAM
node that initiated the loopback, the node does not process the packet as a loopback; the IOAM
encapsulation is removed, preventing IOAM information from leaking out from the IOAM-
Domain. Since the packet does not have any payload, it is terminated.

5.  Active Measurement with IOAM

Active measurement methods
facilitate measurement. This section presents use cases of active measurement using the IOAM
Active flag.

 make use of synthetically generated packets in order to

[RFC7799]

The Active flag indicates that a packet is used for active measurement. An IOAM decapsulating
node that receives a packet with the Active flag set in one of its Trace options must terminate the
packet. The Active flag is intended to simplify the implementation of decapsulating nodes by
indicating that the packet should not be forwarded further. It is not intended as a replacement
for existing active OAM protocols, which may run in higher layers and make use of the Active
flag.

An example of an IOAM deployment scenario is illustrated in Figure 2. The figure depicts two
endpoints: a source and a destination. The data traffic from the source to the destination is
forwarded through a set of network devices, including an IOAM encapsulating node (which
incorporates one or more IOAM options), a decapsulating node (which removes the IOAM
options), and optionally one or more transit nodes. The IOAM options are encapsulated in one of
the IOAM encapsulation types, e.g.,

[IOAM-IPV6-OPTIONS]
.

[IOAM-NSH]

 or

+--------+     +--------+     +--------+     +--------+     +--------+
|        |     |  IOAM  |.....|  IOAM  |.....|  IOAM  |     |        |
+--------+     +--------+     +--------+     +--------+     +--------+
| L2/L3  |<===>| L2/L3  |<===>| L2/L3  |<===>| L2/L3  |<===>| L2/L3  |
+--------+     +--------+     +--------+     +--------+     +--------+
  Source      Encapsulating    Transit      Decapsulating   Destination
                  Node           Node           Node

               <------------  IOAM-Domain  ----------->

Figure 2: Network Using IOAM

This document focuses on three possible use cases of active measurement using IOAM. These use
cases are described using the example of Figure 2.

Mizrahi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9322

IOAM Flags

November 2022

Endpoint active measurement:

synthetic probe packets are sent between the source and destination, traversing the IOAM-
Domain. Since the probe packets are sent between the endpoints, these packets are treated as
data packets by the IOAM-Domain and do not require special treatment at the IOAM layer.
Specifically, the Active flag is not used in this case and the IOAM layer does not need to be
aware that an active measurement mechanism is used at a higher layer.

IOAM active measurement using probe packets within the IOAM-Domain:

probe packets are generated and transmitted by the IOAM encapsulating node and are
expected to be terminated by the decapsulating node. IOAM data related to probe packets may
be exported by one or more nodes along its path by an exporting protocol that is outside the
scope of this document (e.g.,
has its Active flag set, indicating that the decapsulating node must terminate them. The
specification of these probe packets and the processing of these packets by the encapsulating
and decapsulating nodes is outside the scope of this document.

). Probe packets include a Trace Option that

[IOAM-RAWEXPORT]

IOAM active measurement using replicated data packets:

probe packets are created by the encapsulating node by selecting some or all of the en route
data packets and replicating them. A selected data packet and its (possibly truncated) copy is
forwarded with one or more IOAM options while the original packet is forwarded normally
without IOAM options. To the extent possible, the original data packet and its replica are
forwarded through the same path. The replica includes a Trace Option that has its Active flag
set, indicating that the decapsulating node should terminate it. The current document defines
the role of the Active flag in allowing the decapsulating node to terminate the packet, but the
replication functionality and the functionality of the decapsulating node in this context is
outside the scope of this document.

If the volume of traffic that incorporates the Active flag is large, it may overload the network and
the IOAM node(s) that process the active measurement packet. Thus, the rate of the traffic that
includes the Active flag
node's interfaces. Using N>100 is
. Depending on the IOAM node's architecture
considerations, the rate of Active-enabled IOAM packets may be limited to a lower number in
order to avoid overloading the IOAM node.

 exceed 1/N of the interface capacity on any of the IOAM

RECOMMENDED

SHOULD NOT

6.  IANA Considerations

IANA has allocated the following bits in the "IOAM Trace-Flags" registry as follows:

Bit 1

"Loopback" (L-bit)

Bit 2

"Active" (A-bit)

This document is specified as the "Reference" in the registry for both bits.

Note that bit 0 is the most significant bit in the "IOAM Trace-Flags" registry. This bit was allocated
by

 as the 'Overflow' bit.

[RFC9197]

Mizrahi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9322

IOAM Flags

November 2022

7.  Performance Considerations

Each of the flags that are defined in this document may have performance implications. When
using the loopback mechanism, a copy of the data packet is sent back to the sender (thus,
generating more traffic than originally sent by the endpoints). Using active measurement with
the Active flag requires the use of synthetic (overhead) traffic.

Each of the mechanisms that use the flags above has a cost in terms of the network bandwidth
and may potentially load the node that analyzes the data. Therefore, it
 be possible to use
each of the mechanisms on a subset of the data traffic; an encapsulating node needs to be able to
set the Loopback and Active flags selectively in a way that considers the effect on the network
performance, as further discussed in Sections 4.1.1 and 5.

MUST

Transit and decapsulating nodes that support loopback need to be able to limit the looped-back
packets (as discussed in Section 4.2) so as to ensure that the mechanisms are used at a rate that
does not significantly affect the network bandwidth and does not overload the source node in the
case of loopback.

8.  Security Considerations

The security considerations of IOAM in general are discussed in
attacker may try to use the functionality that is defined in this document to attack the network.

. Specifically, an

[RFC9197]

IOAM is assumed to be deployed in a restricted administrative domain, thus limiting the scope of
the threats above and their effect. This is a fundamental assumption with respect to the security
aspects of IOAM as further discussed in
security threats should still be considered and mitigated. Specifically, an attacker may attempt to
overload network devices by injecting synthetic packets that include an IOAM Trace Option with
one or more of the flags defined in this document. Similarly, an on-path attacker may maliciously
set one or more of the flags of transit packets.

. However, even given this limited scope,

[RFC9197]

Loopback flag:

an attacker that sets this flag, either in synthetic packets or transit packets, can potentially
cause an amplification since each device along the path creates a copy of the data packet and
sends it back to the source. The attacker can potentially leverage the Loopback flag for a DDoS
attack as multiple devices send looped-back copies of a packet to a single victim.

Active flag:

the impact of synthetic packets with the Active flag is no worse than synthetic data packets in
which the Active flag is not set. By setting the Active flag in en route packets, an attacker can
prevent these packets from reaching their destination since the packet is terminated by the
decapsulating device. However, note that an on-path attacker may achieve the same goal by
changing the destination address of a packet. Another potential threat is amplification; if an
attacker causes transit switches to replicate more packets than they are intended to replicate

Mizrahi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9322

IOAM Flags

November 2022

(either by setting the Active flag or by sending synthetic packets), then traffic is amplified,
causing bandwidth degradation. As mentioned in Section 5, the specification of the replication
mechanism is not within the scope of this document. A specification that defines the
replication functionality should also address the security aspects of this mechanism.

Some of the security threats that were discussed in this document may be worse in a wide area
network in which there are nested IOAM-Domains. For example, if there are two nested IOAM-
Domains that use loopback, then a looped-back copy in the outer IOAM-Domain may be
forwarded through another (inner) IOAM-Domain and may be subject to loopback in that (inner)
IOAM-Domain, causing the amplification to be worse than in the conventional case.

In order to mitigate the performance-related attacks described in Section 7, it should be possible
for IOAM-enabled devices to selectively apply the mechanisms that use the flags defined in this
document to a subset of the traffic and to limit the performance of synthetically generated
packets to a configurable rate. Specifically, IOAM nodes should be able to:

•

Limit the rate of IOAM packets with the Loopback flag (IOAM encapsulating nodes) as
discussed in Section 4.1.1.

•

Limit the rate of looped back packets (IOAM transit and decapsulating nodes) as discussed in
Section 4.2.

•

Limit the rate of IOAM packets with the Active flag (IOAM encapsulating nodes) as discussed
in Section 5.

As defined in Section 4, transit nodes that process a packet with the Loopback flag only add a
single data field and truncate any payload that follows the IOAM option(s), thus significantly
limiting the possible impact of an amplification attack.

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC8174]

[RFC9197]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Brockners, F., Ed. Bhandari, S., Ed.
,
Operations, Administration, and Maintenance (IOAM)" RFC 9197 DOI 10.17487/
RFC9197

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9197>

T. Mizrahi, Ed. "Data Fields for In Situ

, May 2022,

, and

,
,

,

.

9.2.  Informative References

[IOAM-IPV6-OPTIONS]

Mizrahi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9322

IOAM Flags

November 2022

 and

Bhandari, S., Ed.
Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-ippm-ioam-ipv6-options-09
,
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-ippm-ioam-ipv6-options-09>

F. Brockners, Ed. "In-situ OAM IPv6 Options" Work in

, 11 October 2022,

,

,

.

[IOAM-NSH]

 and

S. Bhandari, Ed. "Network Service Header (NSH)

Brockners, F., Ed.
,
Encapsulation for In-situ OAM (IOAM) Data" Work in Progress Internet-Draft,
,
draft-ietf-sfc-ioam-nsh-11
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/
html/draft-ietf-sfc-ioam-nsh-11>

, 30 September 2022,

.

,

[IOAM-RAWEXPORT]

Spiegel, M. Brockners, F. Bhandari, S.

,

,

R. Sivakolundu "In-situ OAM

,

raw data export with IPFIX" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-spiegel-
ippm-ioam-rawexport-06
, 21 February 2022,
html/draft-spiegel-ippm-ioam-rawexport-06>

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/
.

,

, and
,

[RFC5475]

[RFC6291]

[RFC6724]

[RFC7014]

[RFC7799]

,

Zseby, T. Molina, M. Duffield, N. Niccolini, S.
, and
Filtering Techniques for IP Packet Selection" RFC 5475 DOI 10.17487/RFC5475
,
March 2009,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5475>

F. Raspall "Sampling and

,
.

,

,

,

,

,

Andersson, L. van Helvoort, H. Bonica, R. Romascanu, D.
"Guidelines for the Use of the "OAM" Acronym in the IETF" BCP 161 RFC 6291
DOI 10.17487/RFC6291

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6291>

, and
,

S. Mansfield

, June 2011,

,

,

,

,

.

,

,

Thaler, D., Ed. Draves, R. Matsumoto, A.
T. Chown "Default Address
Selection for Internet Protocol Version 6 (IPv6)" RFC 6724 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6724

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6724>

, September 2012,

, and

,

,

,

.

,

D'Antonio, S. Zseby, T. Henke, C.
RFC 7014 DOI 10.17487/RFC7014
info/rfc7014>

,

,

.

L. Peluso "Flow Selection Techniques"

,

,

, and
, September 2013,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

Morton, A. "Active and Passive Metrics and Methods (with Hybrid Types In-
Between)" RFC 7799 DOI 10.17487/RFC7799
,
editor.org/info/rfc7799>

<https://www.rfc-

, May 2016,

,
,

.

Acknowledgments

The authors thank
Greg Mirsky

Martin Duke Tommy Pauly Donald Eastlake Paul Kyzivat Bernard Aboba

,

,

,

,

,

, and other members of the IPPM working group for many helpful comments.

Contributors

The Editors would like to recognize the contributions of the following individuals to this
document.

Mizrahi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9322

IOAM Flags

November 2022

Ramesh Sivakolundu
Cisco Systems, Inc.
170 West Tasman Dr.
San Jose CA 95134
,
United States of America
Email:

 sramesh@cisco.com

Carlos Pignataro
Cisco Systems, Inc.
7200-11 Kit Creek Road
Research Triangle Park NC 27709
,
United States of America
Email:

 cpignata@cisco.com

Aviv Kfir
Nvidia
Email:

 avivk@nvidia.com

Jennifer Lemon
Broadcom
270 Innovation Drive
San Jose CA 95134
,
United States of America
Email:

 jennifer.lemon@broadcom.com

Authors' Addresses

Tal Mizrahi
Huawei
Israel
Email:

 tal.mizrahi.phd@gmail.com

Frank Brockners
Cisco Systems, Inc.
3rd Floor
Hansaallee 249
40549 Duesseldorf
Germany
Email:

 fbrockne@cisco.com

Mizrahi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9322

IOAM Flags

November 2022

Shwetha Bhandari
Thoughtspot
3rd Floor
Indiqube Orion
Garden Layout
HSR Layout
24th Main Rd
Bangalore 560 102
Karnataka
India
Email:

 shwetha.bhandari@thoughtspot.com

Barak Gafni
Nvidia
Suite 100
350 Oakmead Parkway
Sunnyvale CA 94085
,
United States of America
Email:

 gbarak@nvidia.com

Mickey Spiegel
Barefoot Networks, an Intel company
4750 Patrick Henry Drive
Santa Clara CA 95054
,
United States of America
Email:

 mickey.spiegel@intel.com

Mizrahi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

