Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9430
9202
Standards Track
July 2023
2070-1721
O. Bergmann
TZI

J. Preuß Mattsson
Ericsson

G. Selander
Ericsson

RFC 9430
Extension of the Datagram Transport Layer Security
(DTLS) Profile for Authentication and Authorization
for Constrained Environments (ACE) to Transport
Layer Security (TLS)

Abstract

This document updates "Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS) Profile for Authentication
and Authorization for Constrained Environments (ACE)" (RFC 9202) by specifying that the profile
applies to TLS as well as DTLS.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9430
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Bergmann, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9430

CoAP-DTLS Extension to TLS

July 2023

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  Specific Changes to RFC 9202

4.  Connection Establishment

5.  IANA Considerations

6.  Security Considerations

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

 defines an architecture for lightweight authentication between the Client, Resource

The Authentication and Authorization for Constrained Environments (ACE) framework
[RFC9200]
Server (RS), and Authorization Server (AS), where the Client and RS may be constrained.
"Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS) Profile for Authentication and Authorization for
Constrained Environments (ACE)"
transport layer security between the nodes in the ACE architecture but works equally well for
Transport Layer Security (TLS)
Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP) over UDP
deploying ACE in networks controlled by other entities (such as the Internet), UDP might be
blocked on the path between the Client and the Resource Server, and the Client might have to fall
back to CoAP over TCP
 for NAT or firewall traversal. This dual support for security
over TCP as well as UDP is already supported by the Object Security for Constrained RESTful
Environments (OSCORE) profile

. For many constrained implementations, the

 only specifies the use of DTLS

 is the first choice, but when

[RFC9203]
.

[RFC8323]

[RFC9202]

[RFC8446]

[RFC7252]

[RFC9147]

 for

[RFC9202]

This document updates
only impacts the transport layer security channel between the Client and Resource Server. The
same access rights are valid in case transport layer security is provided by either DTLS or TLS.
The same access token can be used by either DTLS or TLS between a given (Client, RS) pair.

 by specifying that the profile applies to TLS as well as DTLS. It

Bergmann, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9430

CoAP-DTLS Extension to TLS

July 2023

Therefore, the value coap_dtls in the ace_profile parameter of an Authorization Server to
Client (AS-to-Client) response or in the ace_profile claim of an access token indicates that either
DTLS or TLS can be used for transport layer security.

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

Readers are expected to be familiar with the terms and concepts described in
[RFC9202]
.

[RFC9200]

 and

3.  Specific Changes to RFC 9202

The main changes to
"DTLS/TLS" throughout the document. This essentially impacts the use of secure transport, as
described in Sections 3.2.2, 3.3.2, 4, and 5.

 specified in this document are limited to replacing "DTLS" with

[RFC9202]

In addition to this, the Client and Resource Server behavior is updated to describe the case where
either or both DTLS and TLS may be available, as described in the following section.

4.  Connection Establishment

Following the procedures defined in
Authorization Server in order to establish a security association with a specific Resource Server.
The ace_profile parameter in the Client-to-AS request and AS-to-Client response is used to
determine the ACE profile that the Client uses towards the Resource Server.

, a Client can retrieve an access token from an

[RFC9202]

The ace_profile parameter indicates the use of the DTLS profile for ACE, as defined in
[RFC9202]
If this fails, the Client

. Therefore, the Client typically first tries using DTLS to connect to the Resource Server.

 try to connect to the Resource Server via TLS.

MAY

As resource-constrained devices are not expected to support both transport layer security
mechanisms, Clients and Resource Servers
that implements either TLS or DTLS but not both might fail in establishing a secure
communication channel with the Resource Server altogether. Nonconstrained Clients and
Resource Servers

 support both TLS and DTLS.

 support DTLS and

SHOULD

SHOULD

MAY

 support TLS. A Client

Note that a communication setup with an a priori unknown Resource Server typically employs
an initial unauthorized resource request, as illustrated in
exchange succeeds, the Client
 first use the same underlying transport protocol for the
establishment of the security association to the Resource Server (i.e., DTLS for UDP, and TLS for
TCP).

Section 2 of [RFC9202]

. If this message

SHOULD

Bergmann, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9430

CoAP-DTLS Extension to TLS

July 2023

As a consequence, the selection of the transport protocol used for the initial unauthorized
resource request also depends on the transport layer security mechanism supported by the
Client. Clients that support either DTLS or TLS but not both
underlying the supported transport layer security mechanism for an initial unauthorized
resource request to the Resource Server, as in

Section 2 of [RFC9202]
.

SHOULD

 use the transport protocol

5.  IANA Considerations

In the "ACE Profiles" registry, the Description and Reference fields have been updated as follows
for coap_dtls:

Name:

coap_dtls

Description:

Profile for delegating client Authentication and Authorization for Constrained
Environments by establishing a Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS) or Transport
Layer Security (TLS) channel between resource-constrained nodes.

CBOR Value:

1

Reference:

[RFC9202]

, RFC 9430

6.  Security Considerations

The security consideration and requirements in
[RFC8996] [RFC9325]
 also apply to this document.

[RFC9202]

, TLS 1.3

[RFC8446]

, and BCP 195

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC7252]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8323]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Shelby, Z. Hartke, K.
,
(CoAP)" RFC 7252 DOI 10.17487/RFC7252
editor.org/info/rfc7252>

, and

,

,

,

.

C. Bormann "The Constrained Application Protocol

, June 2014,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

,

,

Bormann, C. Lemay, S. Tschofenig, H. Hartke, K. Silverajan, B.
,
Ed. "CoAP (Constrained Application Protocol) over TCP, TLS, and WebSockets"
RFC 8323 DOI 10.17487/RFC8323
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/
info/rfc8323>

, February 2018,

B. Raymor,
,

, and

,

,

.

Bergmann, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9430

CoAP-DTLS Extension to TLS

July 2023

[RFC8446]

[RFC9147]

[RFC9200]

[RFC9202]

Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
,
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>

, August 2018,

,

.

,

Rescorla, E. Tschofenig, H.
Security (DTLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 9147 DOI 10.17487/RFC9147
2022,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9147>

N. Modadugu "The Datagram Transport Layer

, April

, and

,
.

,

,

,

,

Seitz, L. Selander, G. Wahlstroem, E. Erdtman, S.
,
"Authentication and Authorization for Constrained Environments Using the
OAuth 2.0 Framework (ACE-OAuth)" RFC 9200 DOI 10.17487/RFC9200
2022,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9200>
.

H. Tschofenig

, and

,

,

, August

,

Gerdes, S. Bergmann, O. Bormann, C. Selander, G.
,
,
Transport Layer Security (DTLS) Profile for Authentication and Authorization
for Constrained Environments (ACE)" RFC 9202 DOI 10.17487/RFC9202
,
2022,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9202>

L. Seitz "Datagram

, and

,
.

,

, August

7.2.  Informative References

[RFC8996]

[RFC9203]

[RFC9325]

Moriarty, K.
DOI 10.17487/RFC8996

 and

S. Farrell "Deprecating TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1" BCP 195 RFC 8996
,

,

,

,

, March 2021,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8996>

.

,

,

Palombini, F. Seitz, L. Selander, G.
Constrained RESTful Environments (OSCORE) Profile of the Authentication and
Authorization for Constrained Environments (ACE) Framework" RFC 9203 DOI
10.17487/RFC9203

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9203>

M. Gunnarsson "The Object Security for

, August 2022,

, and

,
.

,

,

,

, and

Sheffer, Y. Saint-Andre, P.
,
Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)"
BCP 195 RFC 9325 DOI 10.17487/RFC9325
editor.org/info/rfc9325>

T. Fossati "Recommendations for Secure Use of

, November 2022,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

,

Acknowledgments

The authors would like to thank

Marco Tiloca

 for reviewing this specification.

Authors' Addresses

Olaf Bergmann
Universität Bremen TZI
D-28359 Bremen
Germany
Email:

 bergmann@tzi.org

Bergmann, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9430

CoAP-DTLS Extension to TLS

July 2023

John Preuß Mattsson
Ericsson AB
SE-
Sweden
Email:

164 80 Stockholm

 john.mattsson@ericsson.com

Göran Selander
Ericsson AB
SE-
Sweden
Email:

164 80 Stockholm

 goran.selander@ericsson.com

Bergmann, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

