Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9036
5222
Standards Track
June 2021
2070-1721
R. Gellens
Core Technology Consulting

RFC 9036
Changing the Location-to-Service Translation (LoST)
Location Proﬁles Registry Policy

Abstract

This document changes the policy of the "Location-to-Service Translation (LoST) Location
Proﬁles" IANA registry established by RFC 5222 from Standards Action to Speciﬁcation Required.
This allows standards development organizations (SDOs) other than the IETF to add new values.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9036

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Gellens

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9036

LoST Proﬁles Registry Policy

June 2021

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Document Scope

3.  Security Considerations

4.  IANA Considerations

5.  References

5.1.  Normative References

5.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

[RFC5222]

The Location-to-Service Translation (LoST) Protocol
conveying location (e.g., in a mapping request and a service boundary result).
established an IANA registry of location proﬁles
This requires a Standards Track RFC for any new registry values. The National Emergency
Number Association (NENA) is a standards development organization (SDO) that makes
signiﬁcant use of LoST in its emergency call speciﬁcations (e.g.,
) and has identiﬁed a
need for additional location proﬁles. This document changes the registry policy to Speciﬁcation
Required, allowing other SDOs such as NENA to add values.

 with a registry policy of Standards Action.

 uses a location proﬁle when

[RFC5222]

[NENA-i3]

[reg]

2.  Document Scope

This document changes the policy of the "Location-to-Service Translation (LoST) Location
Proﬁles" IANA registry
Required (as deﬁned in

 from Standards Action to Speciﬁcation
). This allows SDOs other than the IETF to add new values.

[reg]
[RFC8126]

 established by

[RFC5222]

3.  Security Considerations

No new security considerations are identiﬁed by this change in registry policy.

Gellens

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9036

LoST Proﬁles Registry Policy

June 2021

4.  IANA Considerations

IANA has changed the policy of the "Location-to-Service Translation (LoST) Location Proﬁles"
registry (established by
as a reference for the registry. The Expert Reviewer is designated per
should verify that:

) to Speciﬁcation Required. IANA has also added this document

. The reviewer

[RFC5222]

[RFC8126]

•

the proposed new value is speciﬁed by the IETF, NENA, or a similar SDO in which location
proﬁles are in scope;

•

the proposed new value has a clear need (which includes there not being an existing proﬁle
that meets the need); and

•

the proﬁle speciﬁcation is unambiguous and interoperable.

5.  References

5.1.  Normative References

[reg]

[RFC5222]

[RFC8126]

,

IANA "Location-to-Service Translation (LoST) Location Proﬁles" <https://
www.iana.org/assignments/lost-location-proﬁles>

,

.

,

, and
Hardie, T. Newton, A. Schulzrinne, H.
,
Service Translation Protocol" RFC 5222 DOI 10.17487/RFC5222
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5222>

,

,

.

,

H. Tschofenig "LoST: A Location-to-

, August 2008,

,
Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

.

,

,

, June

5.2.  Informative References

[NENA-i3]

National Emergency Number Association (NENA) "Detailed Functional and
Interface Standards for the NENA i3 Solution" NENA i3 Solution - Stage 3, NENA-
STA-010.2-2016

<https://www.nena.org/page/i3_Stage3>

, September 2016,

,

,

.

Acknowledgements

Many thanks to
suggestion to clarify that "clear need" includes there not being an existing proﬁle.

 for his helpful review and suggestions and to

Ted Hardie

Guy Caron

 for his

Gellens

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9036

LoST Proﬁles Registry Policy

June 2021

Author's Address

Randall Gellens
Core Technology Consulting
United States of America
Email:
URI:

 rg+ietf@coretechnologyconsulting.com
 http://www.coretechnologyconsulting.com

Gellens

Standards Track

Page 4

