Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9294
Standards Track
August 2022
2070-1721
K. Talaulikar,
Arrcus Inc.

P. Psenak
Cisco Systems

 Ed.

J. Tantsura
Microsoft

RFC 9294
Application-Specific Link Attributes Advertisement
Using the Border Gateway Protocol - Link State
(BGP‑LS)

Abstract

Extensions have been defined for link-state routing protocols that enable distribution of
application-specific link attributes for existing as well as newer applications such as Segment
Routing (SR). This document defines extensions to the Border Gateway Protocol - Link State (BGP-
LS) to enable the advertisement of these application-specific attributes as a part of the topology
information from the network.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9294
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Talaulikar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9294

App-Specific Link Attributes Using BGP-LS

August 2022

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

2.  Application-Specific Link Attributes TLV

3.  Application-Specific Link Attributes

4.  Procedures

4.1.  Illustration for IS-IS

5.  Deployment Considerations

6.  IANA Considerations

7.  Manageability Considerations

8.  Security Considerations

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

The Border Gateway Protocol - Link State (BGP-LS)
state topology information from link-state routing protocols (viz., IS-IS
[RFC2328]
(PCE) via BGP. The controller or PCE gets the end-to-end topology information across IGP
domains so it can perform path computations for use cases like end-to-end traffic engineering
(TE).

) to an application like a controller or Path Computation Engine

 enables the distribution of the link-

, and OSPFv3

[RFC1195]

[RFC7752]

[RFC5340]

, OSPFv2

The link-state topology information distributed via BGP-LS includes link attributes that were
originally defined for MPLS TE (i.e., using RSVP-TE
In recent years, applications, such as Segment Routing (SR) Policy
Alternates (LFA)

, which also make use of link attributes, have been introduced.

 and Loop-Free

 or GMPLS

[RFC8402]

[RFC4202]

[RFC5286]

[RFC3209]

 applications).

Talaulikar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9294

App-Specific Link Attributes Using BGP-LS

August 2022

 and

[RFC8920]

 define extensions for IS-IS and OSPF, respectively, that enable

[RFC8919]
advertising application-specific link attributes for these and other future applications. This has
resulted in the need for a similar BGP-LS extension to include this additional link-state topology
information from the link-state routing protocols.

This document defines the BGP-LS extensions for the advertisement of application-specific link
attributes. It describes the advertisement of these link attributes as top-level TLVs (i.e., as TLVs of
the BGP-LS Attribute) and as sub-TLVs of the (top-level) Application-Specific Link Attributes
(ASLA) TLV. The document also describes the procedures for the advertisement of these
attributes from the underlying IGPs and discusses their deployment aspects.

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Application-Specific Link Attributes TLV

[RFC7752]

 specifies the Link Network Layer Reachability Information (NLRI) for the

BGP-LS
advertisement of links and their attributes using the BGP-LS Attribute. The ASLA TLV is an
optional top-level BGP-LS Attribute TLV that is introduced for Link NLRIs. It is defined such that
it may act as a container for certain existing and future link attributes that require application-
specific definition.

The format of this TLV is as follows and is similar to the corresponding ASLA sub-TLVs defined
for OSPF and IS-IS in

, respectively.

[RFC8920]

[RFC8919]

 and

    0                   1                   2                   3
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |              Type             |             Length            |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   | SABM Length   | UDABM Length  |            Reserved           |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |     Standard Application Identifier Bit Mask (variable)      //
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |    User-Defined Application Identifier Bit Mask (variable)   //
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                      Link Attribute sub-TLVs                 //
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 1: Application-Specific Link Attributes TLV

where:

Type:

1122

Talaulikar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9294

App-Specific Link Attributes Using BGP-LS

August 2022

Length:

variable

SABM Length:

1-octet field that carries the Standard Application Identifier Bit Mask Length in

octets as defined in

[RFC8920]

.

UDABM Length:

1-octet field that carries the User-Defined Application Identifier Bit Mask

Length in octets as defined in

[RFC8920]

.

Reserved:

2-octet field that

MUST

 be set to zero on transmission and

MUST

 be ignored on

reception.

Standard Application Identifier Bit Mask:

An optional set of bits (of size 0, 4, or 8 octets as

indicated by the SABM Length), where each bit represents a single standard application as
defined in

[RFC8919]

.

User-Defined Application Identifier Bit Mask:

An optional set of bits (of size 0, 4, or 8 octets as

indicated by the UDABM Length), where each bit represents a single user-defined application
as defined in

[RFC8920]

[RFC8919]

 and

.

Link Attribute sub-TLVs:

BGP-LS Attribute TLVs corresponding to the Link NLRI that are

application-specific (including existing ones as specified in Section 3) are included as sub-TLVs
of the ASLA TLV.

The semantics associated with the standard and user-defined bit masks as well as the encoding
scheme for application-specific attributes are as specified in

[RFC8920]
.

The ASLA TLV and its sub-TLVs can only be added to the BGP-LS Attribute associated with the
Link NLRI of the node that originates the underlying IGP link attribute TLVs and sub-TLVs. The
procedures for originating link attributes in the ASLA TLV from underlying IGPs are specified in
Section 4.

3.  Application-Specific Link Attributes

Several BGP-LS Attribute TLVs corresponding to the Link NLRI are defined in BGP-LS
and more may be added in the future. Those attributes that have been determined to be, and
advertised as, application-specific in the underlying IGPs are also encoded similarly in BGP-LS.

[RFC7752]
,

The following table lists the currently defined BGP-LS Attribute TLVs corresponding to Link NLRI
that can have application-specific semantics based on the underlying IGP specifications
[RFC8919] [RFC8920]
applications in BGP-LS by the respective reference documents.

. These were originally defined with semantics for RSVP-TE and GMPLS

TLV Code Point Description

Reference Document

1088

1092

1096

Administrative group (color)

[RFC7752]

TE Default Metric

Shared Risk Link Group

[RFC7752]

[RFC7752]

Talaulikar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9294

App-Specific Link Attributes Using BGP-LS

August 2022

TLV Code Point Description

Reference Document

1114

1115

1116

1117

1118

1119

1120

1173

Unidirectional Link Delay

[RFC8571]

Min/Max Unidirectional Link Delay

[RFC8571]

Unidirectional Delay Variation

[RFC8571]

Unidirectional Link Loss

[RFC8571]

Unidirectional Residual Bandwidth

[RFC8571]

Unidirectional Available Bandwidth

[RFC8571]

Unidirectional Utilized Bandwidth

[RFC8571]

Extended Administrative Group

[RFC9104]

Table 1: Existing BGP-LS TLVs Identified as Application-Specific

All the BGP-LS Attribute TLVs listed in the table above are
level TLV in the BGP-LS Attribute when used to carry link attributes specific to RSVP-TE.

 to be advertised as a top-

REQUIRED

BGP-LS Attribute TLVs corresponding to Link NLRI that are advertised in the underlying IGP as
application-specific are

 to be encoded within an ASLA TLV.

REQUIRED

Link attributes that do not have application-specific semantics
the ASLA TLV.

MUST NOT

 be advertised within

When the same application-specific link attributes are advertised both within the ASLA TLV and
as top-level TLVs in the BGP-LS Attribute, the attributes advertised within the ASLA TLV take
precedence for the applications indicated in the ASLA TLV encoding.

4.  Procedures

The BGP-LS originator learns of the association of an application-specific attribute to one or more
applications from the underlying IGP protocol Link State Advertisements (LSAs) or Link State
Packets (LSPs) from which it is advertising the topology information.
specify the mechanisms for advertising application-specific link attributes in OSPF and IS-IS,
respectively.

[RFC8919]

[RFC8920]

 and

Application-specific link attributes received from an IGP node without the use of ASLA encodings
continue to be encoded using the respective BGP-LS top-level TLVs listed in Table 1 as specified in
their respective reference documents.

While the ASLA encoding in OSPF is similar to that of BGP-LS, the encoding in IS-IS differs and
requires additional procedures when conveying information into BGP-LS. One of these
differences arises from the presence of the L-flag in the IS-IS encoding. Another difference arises

Talaulikar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9294

App-Specific Link Attributes Using BGP-LS

August 2022

due to the requirement to collate information from two types of IS-IS encodings for application-
specific link information (i.e., the IS-IS ASLA sub-TLV and the IS-IS Application-Specific Shared
Risk Link Group (SRLG) TLV)

 and to carry them together in the BGP-LS ASLA TLV.

[RFC8919]

A BGP-LS originator node that is advertising link-state information from the underlying IGP
using ASLA encodings determines their BGP-LS encoding based on the following rules:

1.

Application-specific link attributes received from an OSPF node using an ASLA sub-TLV or
from an IS-IS node using either an ASLA sub-TLV or an Application-Specific SRLG TLV
MUST
be encoded in the BGP-LS ASLA TLV as sub-TLVs. Exceptions to this rule are specified in (2)
(F) and (2)(G) below.

2.

In the case of IS-IS, the specific procedures below are to be followed:
A.

When application-specific link attributes are received from a node with the L-flag set in
the IS-IS ASLA sub-TLV and when application bits (other than RSVP-TE) are set in the
application bit masks, then the application-specific link attributes advertised in the
corresponding legacy IS-IS TLVs and sub-TLVs
TLV as sub-TLVs with the application bits (other than the RSVP-TE bit) copied from the IS-IS
ASLA sub-TLV. The link attributes advertised in the legacy IS-IS TLVs and sub-TLVs are also
advertised in BGP-LS top-level TLVs as per
. The same
procedure also applies for the advertisement of the SRLG values from the IS-IS
Application-Specific SRLG TLV.

 be encoded within the BGP-LS ASLA

[RFC7752] [RFC8571]
,

[RFC9104]

, and

MUST

B.

When the IS-IS ASLA sub-TLV has the RSVP-TE application bit set, then the link attributes
 be encoded using the respective BGP-LS
for the corresponding IS-IS ASLA sub-TLVs
[RFC9104]
[RFC7752] [RFC8571]
top-level TLVs as per
,
Application-Specific SRLG TLV has the RSVP-TE application bit set, then the SRLG values
[RFC7752]
.
within it

 be encoded using the top-level BGP-LS SRLG TLV (1096) as per

. Similarly, when the IS-IS

MUST
, and

MUST

C.

The SRLGs advertised in one or more IS-IS Application-Specific SRLG TLVs and the other
link attributes advertised in one or more IS-IS ASLA sub-TLVs are
on a per-application basis, only for those applications that meet all the following criteria:

REQUIRED

 to be collated,

▪

their bit is set in the SABM or UDABM in one of the two types of IS-IS encodings (e.g., IS-
IS ASLA sub-TLV)

▪

the other encoding type (e.g., IS-IS Application Specific SRLG TLV) has an advertisement
with zero-length application bit masks

▪

there is no corresponding advertisement of that other encoding type (following the
example, IS-IS Application Specific SRLG TLV) with that specific application bit set

For each such application, its collated information
with that application's bit set in the SABM or UDABM. See the illustration in Section 4.1.

 be carried in a BGP-LS ASLA TLV

MUST

D.

If the resulting set of collated link attributes and SRLG values is common across multiple
applications, they
 be advertised in a common BGP-LS ASLA TLV instance where the
bits for all such applications would be set in the application bit mask.

MAY

E.

Both the SRLG values from IS-IS Application-Specific SRLG TLVs and the link attributes
from IS-IS ASLA sub-TLVs, with the zero-length application bit mask,
into a BGP-LS ASLA TLV with a zero-length application bit mask, independent of the
collation described above.

MUST

 be advertised

Talaulikar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9294

App-Specific Link Attributes Using BGP-LS

August 2022

F. [RFC8919]

 allows the advertisement of the Maximum Link Bandwidth within an IS-IS ASLA
sub-TLV even though it is not an application-specific attribute. However, when originating
 be encoded only in the top-
the Maximum Link Bandwidth into BGP-LS, the attribute
level BGP-LS Maximum Link Bandwidth TLV (1089) and
 be advertised within
the BGP-LS ASLA TLV.

MUST NOT

MUST

G. [RFC8919]

 also allows the advertisement of the Maximum Reservable Link Bandwidth and
the Unreserved Bandwidth within an IS-IS ASLA sub-TLV even though these attributes are
specific to RSVP-TE application. However, when originating the Maximum Reservable Link
Bandwidth and Unreserved Bandwidth into BGP-LS, these attributes
only in the BGP-LS top-level Maximum Reservable Link Bandwidth TLV (1090) and
Unreserved Bandwidth TLV (1091), respectively, and not within the BGP-LS ASLA TLV.

 be encoded

MUST

These rules ensure that a BGP-LS originator performs the advertisement for all application-
specific link attributes from the IGP nodes that support the ASLA extension. Furthermore, it also
ensures that the top-level BGP-LS TLVs defined for RSVP-TE and GMPLS applications continue to
be used for advertisement of their application-specific attributes.

A BGP-LS speaker would normally advertise all the application-specific link attributes
corresponding to RSVP-TE and GMPLS applications as existing top-level BGP-LS TLVs while for
other applications they are encoded in the ASLA TLV(s) with appropriate applicable bit mask
setting. An application-specific attribute value received via a sub-TLV within the ASLA TLV has
precedence over the value received via a top-level TLV.

4.1.  Illustration for IS-IS

This section illustrates the procedure for the advertisement of application-specific link attributes
from IS-IS into BGP-LS.

Consider the following advertisements for a link in IS-IS. We start with this set:

a.

IS-IS ASLA sub-TLV with the S, F, and X bits set on it that carries certain application-specific
link attributes

b.

IS-IS Application-Specific SRLG TLV with zero-length bit masks with a set of application-
specific SRLGs

c.

IS-IS Application-Specific SRLG TLV with the X bit set on it with a set of application-specific
SRLGs

The corresponding BGP-LS advertisements for that link are determined as follows:

First, based on rule (1), the advertisements are conveyed to BGP-LS to get the following "updated
set":

1.

ASLA with the S, F, and X bits set on it that carries link attributes from IS-IS advertisement (a)

2.

ASLA SRLG with zero-length bit masks with a set of SRLGs from IS-IS advertisement (b)

3.

ASLA SRLG with the X bit set on it with a set of SRLGs from IS-IS advertisement (c)

Talaulikar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9294

App-Specific Link Attributes Using BGP-LS

August 2022

Next, we apply the rules from (2) to this "updated set", because all of them were sourced from IS-
IS, to derive a new set.

The next rule that applies is (2)(c), and it is determined that collation is required for applications
S and F; therefore, we get the following "final set":

1.

ASLA with the S bit set on it that carries link attributes from IS-IS advertisement (a) and
SRLGs from IS-IS advertisement (b) (this is collation for application S based on (2)(c))

2.

ASLA with the F bit set on it that carries link attributes from IS-IS advertisement (a) and
SRLGs from IS-IS advertisement (b) (this is collation for application F based on (2)(c))

3.

ASLA with the X bit set on it that carries link attributes from IS-IS advertisement (a)
(remaining application not affected by collation based on (2)(c))

4.

ASLA with zero-length bit masks with SRLGs from IS-IS advertisement (b) (not affected by (2)
(c) and therefore carried forward unchanged from the "updated set")

5.

ASLA with the X bit set on it with SRLGs from IS-IS advertisement (c) (not affected by (2)(c)
and therefore carried forward unchanged from the "updated set")

Implementations may optionally perform further consolidation by processing the "final set"
above based on (2)(d) to determine the following "consolidated final set":

1.

ASLA with the S and F bits set on it that carries application-specific link attributes from IS-IS
advertisement (a) and SRLGs from IS-IS advertisement (b) (this is the consolidation of items 1
and 2 of the "final set" based on (2)(d))

2.

ASLA with the X bit set on it that carries certain application-specific link attributes from IS-IS
advertisement (a) (it is unaffected by this consolidation)

3.

ASLA with zero-length bit masks with a set of application-specific SRLGs from IS-IS
advertisement (b) (this is retained based on (2)(e) and is unaffected by any further
consolidation)

4.

ASLA with the X bit set on it with a set of application-specific SRLGs from IS-IS advertisement
(c) (it is unaffected by this consolidation)

Further optimization (e.g., combining (2) and (4) from the "consolidated final set" above into a
single BGP-LS ASLA TLV) may be possible while ensuring that the semantics are preserved
between the IS-IS and BGP-LS advertisements. Such optimizations are outside the scope of this
document.

5.  Deployment Considerations

BGP-LS sources the link-state topology information (including the extensions introduced by this
document) from the underlying link-state IGP protocols. The various deployment aspects related
to the advertisement and use of application-specific link attributes are discussed in the
Deployment Considerations sections of
compatibility aspects described in those documents associated with application-specific link

. The IGP backward-

[RFC8919]

[RFC8920]

 and

Talaulikar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9294

App-Specific Link Attributes Using BGP-LS

August 2022

attributes along with the BGP-LS procedures specified in this document enable backward
compatibility in deployments of existing implementations of
[RFC9104]

 for applications such as RSVP-TE, SR Policy, and LFA.

[RFC7752] [RFC8571]
,

, and

It is recommended that only nodes supporting this specification are selected as originators of
BGP-LS information when advertising the link-state information from the IGPs in deployments
supporting application-specific link attributes.

BGP-LS consumers that do not support this specification can continue to use the existing top-level
TLVs for link attributes for existing applications as discussed above. However, they would be
able to support neither the application-specific link attributes nor newer applications that may
be encoded only using the ASLA TLV.

6.  IANA Considerations

IANA has assigned a code point from the "BGP-LS Node Descriptor, Link Descriptor, Prefix
Descriptor, and Attribute TLVs" registry as described in the following table. There is no "IS-IS
TLV/Sub-TLV" value for this entry.

TLV Code Point Description

Reference

1122

Application-Specific Link Attributes

RFC 9294

Table 2: ASLA TLV Code Point Allocation

7.  Manageability Considerations

[RFC7752]

The protocol extensions introduced in this document augment the existing IGP topology
information defined in
do not affect the BGP protocol operations and management other than as discussed in the
[RFC7752]
Manageability Considerations section of
[RFC7752]
tests in the Fault Management section of
this document.

. Specifically, the malformed NLRI attribute
 now encompass the BGP-LS TLVs defined in

. Procedures and protocol extensions defined in this document

The extensions specified in this document do not specify any new configuration or monitoring
aspects in BGP or BGP-LS. The specification of BGP models is an ongoing work based on
BGP-MODEL]
.

[IDR-

8.  Security Considerations

Security considerations for acquiring and distributing BGP-LS information are discussed in
[RFC7752]
traffic engineering, apply.

. Specifically, the considerations related to topology information, which are related to

Talaulikar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9294

App-Specific Link Attributes Using BGP-LS

August 2022

The TLVs introduced in this document are used to propagate the application-specific link
attributes IGP extensions defined in
. It is assumed that the IGP
instances originating these TLVs will support all the required security (as described in
and

[RFC8920]

[RFC8919]

[RFC8920]

 and

).

[RFC8919]

This document defines a new way to advertise link attributes. Tampering with the information
defined in this document may affect applications using it, including impacting traffic
engineering, which uses various link attributes for its path computation. As the advertisements
defined in this document limit the scope to specific applications, the impact of tampering is
similarly limited in scope. The advertisement of the link attribute information defined in this
document presents no significant additional risk beyond that associated with the existing link
attribute information already supported in

[RFC7752]
.

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC7752]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8571]

[RFC8919]

[RFC8920]

[RFC9104]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Gredler, H., Ed. Medved, J. Previdi, S. Farrel, A.
Distribution of Link-State and Traffic Engineering (TE) Information Using BGP"
,
RFC 7752 DOI 10.17487/RFC7752
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 2016,
rfc7752>

S. Ray "North-Bound

, and

,
.

,

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Ginsberg, L., Ed. Previdi, S. Wu, Q. Tantsura, J.
,
(BGP-LS) Advertisement of IGP Traffic Engineering Performance Metric
Extensions" RFC 8571 DOI 10.17487/RFC8571
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc8571>

, March 2019,

, and

,

.

<https://www.rfc-

C. Filsfils "BGP - Link State

,

,

J. Drake "IS-IS
Ginsberg, L. Psenak, P. Previdi, S. Henderickx, W.
,
Application-Specific Link Attributes" RFC 8919 DOI 10.17487/RFC8919
2020,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8919>
.

, and

,

,

,

, October

,

J. Drake "OSPF
Psenak, P., Ed. Ginsberg, L. Henderickx, W. Tantsura, J.
,
,
Application-Specific Link Attributes" RFC 8920 DOI 10.17487/RFC8920
2020,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8920>
.

, and

,

,

, October

,

,

Tantsura, J. Wang, Z. Wu, Q.
Engineering Extended Administrative Groups Using the Border Gateway
Protocol - Link State (BGP-LS)" RFC 9104 DOI 10.17487/RFC9104
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9104>
.

K. Talaulikar "Distribution of Traffic

, and

,

,

, August 2021,

Talaulikar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9294

App-Specific Link Attributes Using BGP-LS

August 2022

9.2.  Informative References

[IDR-BGP-MODEL]

Jethanandani, M. Patel, K. Hares, S.
,

,

Service Provider Networks" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-idr-bgp-
model-14
model-14>

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-idr-bgp-

, 3 July 2022,

,

.

J. Haas "BGP YANG Model for
, and
,

,

[RFC1195]

[RFC2328]

[RFC3209]

[RFC4202]

[RFC5286]

[RFC5340]

[RFC8402]

,

Callon, R. "Use of OSI IS-IS for routing in TCP/IP and dual environments" RFC
1195 DOI 10.17487/RFC1195
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
,
rfc1195>

, December 1990,

.

,

,

Moy, J. "OSPF Version 2" STD 54 RFC 2328 DOI 10.17487/RFC2328
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2328>

.

,

,

, April 1998,

,

G. Swallow "RSVP-TE:
Awduche, D. Berger, L. Gan, D. Li, T. Srinivasan, V.
,
Extensions to RSVP for LSP Tunnels" RFC 3209 DOI 10.17487/RFC3209
December 2001,

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3209>

, and

,

.

,

,

,

 and

Kompella, K., Ed.
Generalized Multi-Protocol Label Switching (GMPLS)" RFC 4202 DOI 10.17487/
RFC4202

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4202>

Y. Rekhter, Ed. "Routing Extensions in Support of

, October 2005,

,

,

.

 and

Atlas, A., Ed.
Alternates" RFC 5286 DOI 10.17487/RFC5286
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc5286>

A. Zinin, Ed. "Basic Specification for IP Fast Reroute: Loop-Free
<https://www.rfc-

, September 2008,

,

.

Coltun, R. Ferguson, D. Moy, J.
10.17487/RFC5340

,
, July 2008,

,

, and

A. Lindem "OSPF for IPv6" RFC 5340 DOI

,

,

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5340>

.

,

Filsfils, C., Ed. Previdi, S., Ed. Ginsberg, L. Decraene, B. Litkowski, S.
Shakir "Segment Routing Architecture" RFC 8402 DOI 10.17487/RFC8402
2018,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8402>

,

,

,

,

.

,

, and

R.
, July

Acknowledgements

,

,

The authors would like to thank
Patel Paul Wouters Rudy Selderslaghs Kristy Paine
feedback on this document. The authors would like to thank
AD review and comments that improved this document. The authors would also like to thank
John Scudder
 for his detailed review and feedback on clarifying the procedures along with the
example in Section 4.

Les Ginsberg Baalajee S. Amalesh Maity Acee Lindem Keyur
,
,
Shraddha Hegde
 for their review and
, and
Alvaro Retana
 for his very detailed

,

,

,

Talaulikar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9294

App-Specific Link Attributes Using BGP-LS

August 2022

Authors' Addresses

editor
)

Ketan Talaulikar (
Arrcus Inc.
India
Email:

 ketant.ietf@gmail.com

Peter Psenak
Cisco Systems
Slovakia
Email:

 ppsenak@cisco.com

Jeff Tantsura
Microsoft
Email:

 jefftant.ietf@gmail.com

Talaulikar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

