Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9018
7873
Standards Track
April 2021
2070-1721

Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:
O. Sury
Internet Systems Consortium

W. Toorop
NLnet Labs

D. Eastlake 3rd
Futurewei Technologies

M. Andrews
Internet Systems Consortium

RFC 9018
Interoperable Domain Name System (DNS) Server
Cookies

Abstract

DNS Cookies, as speciﬁed in RFC 7873, are a lightweight DNS transaction security mechanism
that provide limited protection to DNS servers and clients against a variety of denial-of-service
ampliﬁcation, forgery, or cache-poisoning attacks by oﬀ-path attackers.

This document updates RFC 7873 with precise directions for creating Server Cookies so that an
anycast server set including diverse implementations will interoperate with standard clients,
with suggestions for constructing Client Cookies in a privacy-preserving fashion, and with
suggestions on how to update a Server Secret. An IANA registry listing the methods and
associated pseudorandom function suitable for creating DNS Server Cookies has been created
with the method described in this document as the ﬁrst and, as of the time of publication, only
entry.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9018

.

Sury, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9018

Interoperable DNS Server Cookies

April 2021

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Terminology and Deﬁnitions

2.  Changes to RFC 7873

3.  Constructing a Client Cookie

4.  Constructing a Server Cookie

4.1.  The Version Sub-Field

4.2.  The Reserved Sub-Field

4.3.  The Timestamp Sub-Field

4.4.  The Hash Sub-Field

5.  Updating the Server Secret

6.  Cookie Algorithms

7.  IANA Considerations

8.  Security and Privacy Considerations

8.1.  Client Cookie Construction

8.2.  Server Cookie Construction

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Test Vectors

A.1.  Learning a New Server Cookie

Sury, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9018

Interoperable DNS Server Cookies

April 2021

A.2.  The Same Client Learning a Renewed (Fresh) Server Cookie

A.3.  Another Client Learning a Renewed Server Cookie

A.4.  IPv6 Query with Rolled Over Secret

Appendix B.  Implementation Status

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

[RFC7873]

DNS Cookies, as speciﬁed in
, are a lightweight DNS transaction security mechanism
that provide limited protection to DNS servers and clients against a variety of denial-of-service
ampliﬁcation, forgery, or cache-poisoning attacks by oﬀ-path attackers. This document speciﬁes a
means of producing interoperable cookies so that an anycast server set including diverse
implementations can be easily conﬁgured to interoperate with standard clients. Also, single-
implementation or non-anycast services can beneﬁt from a well-studied standardized algorithm
for which the behavioral and security characteristics are more widely known.

The threats considered for DNS Cookies and the properties of the DNS Security features other
than DNS Cookies are discussed in

.
[RFC7873]

Section 6 of [RFC7873]

In
by each DNS server in a set of anycast servers." However, how precisely a Server Cookie is
calculated from this Server Secret is left to the implementation.

, for simplicity, it is "

RECOMMENDED

 that the same Server Secret be used

This guidance has led to a gallimaufry of DNS Cookie implementations, calculating the Server
Cookie in diﬀerent ways. As a result, DNS Cookies are impractical to deploy on multi-vendor
anycast networks because even when all DNS Software shares the same secret, as
Section 6 of [RFC7873]
RECOMMENDED
cannot generally be validated by another.

, the Server Cookie constructed by one implementation

 in

There is no need for DNS client (resolver) Cookies to be interoperable across diﬀerent
implementations. Each client need only be able to recognize its own cookies. However, this
document does contain recommendations for constructing Client Cookies in a client-protecting
fashion.

1.1.  Terminology and Deﬁnitions

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

Sury, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9018

Interoperable DNS Server Cookies

April 2021

Note: "IP address" is used herein as a length-independent term covering both IPv4 and IPv6
addresses.

2.  Changes to RFC 7873

Appendices A.1 and B.1 of
and Server Cookies, respectively. These algorithms
MUST NOT
too weak when evaluated against modern security standards.

[RFC7873]

 provide example "simple" algorithms for computing Client

 be used as the resulting cookies are

Appendix B.2 of [RFC7873]
algorithm is replaced by the interoperable speciﬁcation in Section 4 of this document, which
MUST

 provides an example "more complex" server algorithm. This

 be used by Server Cookie implementations.

This document has suggestions on Client Cookie construction in Section 3. The previous example
in

Appendix A.2 of [RFC7873] NOT RECOMMENDED

 is

.

3.  Constructing a Client Cookie

The Client Cookie acts as an identiﬁer for a given client and its IP address and needs to be
unguessable. In order to provide minimal authentication of the targeted server, a client
a diﬀerent Client Cookie for each diﬀerent Server IP address. This complicates a server's ability
to spoof answers for other DNS servers. The Client Cookie

 have 64 bits of entropy.

SHOULD

MUST

 use

When a server does not support DNS Cookies, the client
that same server again. Instead, it is recommended that the client does not send a Client Cookie
to that server for a certain period (for example, ﬁve minutes) before it retries with a new Client
Cookie.

 send the same Client Cookie to

MUST NOT

When a server does support DNS Cookies, the client should store the Client Cookie alongside the
Server Cookie it registered for that server.

Except for when the Client IP address changes, there is no need to change the Client Cookie often.
It is then reasonable to change the Client Cookie only if it has been compromised or after a
relatively long implementation-deﬁned period of time. The time period should be no longer than
a year, and in any case, Client Cookies are not expected to survive a program restart.

Client-Cookie = 64 bits of entropy

Previously, the recommended algorithm to compute the Client Cookie included the Client IP
address as an input to a hashing function. However, when implementing the DNS Cookies,
several DNS vendors found it impractical to include the Client IP as the Client Cookie is typically
computed before the Client IP address is known. Therefore, the requirement to put the Client IP
address as input was removed.

Sury, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9018

Interoperable DNS Server Cookies

April 2021

However, for privacy reasons, in order to prevent tracking of devices across links and to not
circumvent IPv6 Privacy Extensions
after the Client IP address has changed.

 reuse a Client or Server Cookie

[RFC8981]

MUST NOT

, clients

One way to satisfy this requirement for non-reuse is to register the Client IP address alongside
the Server Cookie when it receives the Server Cookie. In subsequent queries to the server with
that Server Cookie, the socket
registered) when it received the Server Cookie. Failure to bind
Cookie.

 be bound to the Client IP address that was also used (and

 then result in a new Client

MUST

MUST

4.  Constructing a Server Cookie

The Server Cookie is eﬀectively a Message Authentication Code (MAC). The Server Cookie, when
it occurs in a COOKIE option in a request, is intended to weakly assure the server that the request
came from a client that is both at the source IP address of the request and using the Client Cookie
included in the option. This assurance is provided by the Server Cookie that the server (or any
other server from the anycast set) sent to that client in an earlier response and that appears as
the Server Cookie ﬁeld in the weakly authenticated request (see

Section 5.2 of [RFC7873]

).

DNS Cookies do not provide protection against "on-path" adversaries (see
An on-path observer that has seen a Server Cookie for a client can abuse that Server Cookie to
spoof request for that client within the time span a Server Cookie is valid (see Section 4.3).

Section 9 of [RFC7873]

).

The Server Cookie is calculated from the Client Cookie, a series of Sub-Fields speciﬁed below, the
Client IP address, and a Server Secret that is known only to the server or only to the set of servers
at the same anycast address.

For calculation of the Server Cookie, a pseudorandom function is
property that an attacker that does not know the Server Secret, cannot ﬁnd (any information
about) the Server Secret, and cannot create a Server Cookie for any combination of the Client
Cookie, the series of Sub-Fields speciﬁed below, and the client IP address, for which it has not
seen a Server Cookie before. Because DNS servers need to use the pseudorandom function in
order to verify Server Cookies, it is
pseudorandom function described in
document ﬁts these recommendations.

 that it be eﬃcient to calculate. The
 and introduced in Section 4.4 of this

RECOMMENDED
[SipHash-2-4]

RECOMMENDED

 with the

Changing the Server Secret regularly is
RECOMMENDED
function is used, it need not be changed too frequently. Once a month, for example, would be
adequate. See Section 5 on operator and implementation guidelines for updating a Server Secret.

 but, when a secure pseudorandom

Sury, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9018

Interoperable DNS Server Cookies

April 2021

The 128-bit Server Cookie consists of the following Sub-Fields: a 1-octet Version Sub-Field, a 3-
octet Reserved Sub-Field, a 4-octet Timestamp Sub-Field, and an 8-octet Hash Sub-Field.

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|    Version    |                   Reserved                    |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                           Timestamp                           |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                             Hash                              |
|                                                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

4.1.  The Version Sub-Field

The Version Sub-Field prescribes the structure and Hash calculation formula. This document
deﬁnes Version 1 to be the structure and way to calculate the Hash Sub-Field as deﬁned in this
section.

4.2.  The Reserved Sub-Field

The value of the Reserved Sub-Field is reserved for future versions of server-side cookie
construction. On construction, it
server
received value as described in Section 4.4.

 enforce those ﬁelds to be zero, and the Hash should be computed with the

 be set to zero octets. On Server Cookie veriﬁcation, the

MUST NOT

MUST

4.3.  The Timestamp Sub-Field

 be checked by the server to be within a
The Timestamp value prevents Replay Attacks and
deﬁned period of time. The DNS server
 allow cookies within a 1-hour period in the past
and a 5-minute period into the future to allow operation of low-volume clients and some limited
time skew between the DNS servers in the anycast set.

SHOULD

MUST

The Timestamp value speciﬁes a date and time in the form of a 32-bit unsigned number of
seconds elapsed since 1 January 1970 00:00:00 UTC, ignoring leap seconds, in network byte order.
All comparisons involving these ﬁelds
.
[RFC1982] [RFC1982]
time window less than 68 years, at any time in the future (2038, 2106, 2256, 22209, or later.)

 speciﬁes how the diﬀerences should be handled. This handles any relative

 use "Serial number arithmetic", as deﬁned in

MUST

The DNS server
the client is more than half an hour old, but it

SHOULD

 generate a new Server Cookie at least if the received Server Cookie from

MAY

 generate a new cookie more often than that.

Sury, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9018

Interoperable DNS Server Cookies

April 2021

4.4.  The Hash Sub-Field

It's important that all the DNS servers use the same algorithm for computing the Server Cookie.
This document deﬁnes the Version 1 of the server-side algorithm to be:

Hash = SipHash-2-4(
    Client Cookie | Version | Reserved | Timestamp | Client-IP,
    Server Secret )

where "|" indicates concatenation.

Notice that Client-IP is used for hash generation even though it is not included in the cookie value
itself. Client-IP can be either 4 bytes for IPv4 or 16 bytes for IPv6. The length of all the
concatenated elements (the input into
an IPv4 Client-IP or precisely 32 bytes in case of an IPv6 Client-IP.

 be either precisely 20 bytes in case of

[SipHash-2-4] MUST

)

MUST

 be precisely 24 bytes: 8 bytes for the Client Cookie plus 16 bytes for the

When a DNS server receives a Server Cookie version 1 for validation, the length of the received
COOKIE option
Server Cookie. Veriﬁcation of the length of the received COOKIE option is
the length of the input into
and precisely 32 bytes in the case of an IPv6 Client-IP. This ensures that the input into
[SipHash-2-4]
data substitution attacks. More speciﬁcally, this prevents a 36-byte COOKIE option coming from
an IPv4 Client-IP to be validated as if it were coming from an IPv6 Client-IP.

 is an injective function of the elements making up the input, and thereby prevents

 to be precisely 20 bytes in the case of an IPv4 Client-IP

[SipHash-2-4]

REQUIRED

 to guarantee

The Server Secret
consistent results.

MUST

 be conﬁgurable to make sure that servers in an anycast network return

5.  Updating the Server Secret

Changing the Server Secret regularly is
RECOMMENDED
able to verify the Server Cookies constructed by all other servers in that anycast set at all times.
Therefore, it is vital that the Server Secret is shared among all servers before it is used to
generate Server Cookies on any server.

. All servers in an anycast set must be

Also, to maximize maintaining established relationships between clients and servers, an old
Server Secret should be valid for veriﬁcation purposes for a speciﬁc period.

To facilitate this, deployment of a new Server Secret

MUST

 be done in three stages:

Stage 1

The new Server Secret is deployed on all the servers in an anycast set by the operator.

Each server learns the new Server Secret but keeps using the previous Server Secret to
generate Server Cookies.

Sury, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9018

Interoperable DNS Server Cookies

April 2021

Server Cookies constructed with both the new Server Secret and the previous Server Secret
are considered valid when verifying.

After stage 1 is completed, all the servers in the anycast set have learned the new Server
Secret and can verify Server Cookies constructed with it, but keep generating Server Cookies
with the old Server Secret.

Stage 2

This stage is initiated by the operator after the Server Cookie is present on all members in the
anycast set.

When entering Stage 2, servers start generating Server Cookies with the new Server Secret.
The previous Server Secret is not yet removed/forgotten.

Server Cookies constructed with both the new Server Secret and the previous Server Secret
are considered valid when verifying.

Stage 3

This stage is initiated by the operator when it can be assumed that most clients have obtained
a Server Cookie derived from the new Server Secret.

With this stage, the previous Server Secret can be removed and
for verifying.

MUST NOT

 be used anymore

RECOMMENDED

It is
3, at least a period of time equal to the longest TTL in the zones served by the server plus 1
hour.

 that the operator wait, after initiating Stage 2 and before initiating Stage

The operator
SHOULD
Server Cookie, which

 wait at least longer than the period clients are allowed to use the same
SHOULD

 be 1 hour (see Section 4.3).

6.  Cookie Algorithms

[SipHash-2-4]
REQUIRED
for DNS Cookies to ensure interoperability between the DNS Implementations.

 is a pseudorandom function suitable as a Message Authentication Code. It is
 that a compliant DNS server use SipHash-2-4 as a mandatory and default algorithm

The construction method and pseudorandom function used in calculating and verifying the
Server Cookies are determined by the initial version byte and by the length of the Server Cookie.
Additional pseudorandom or construction algorithms for Server Cookies might be added in the
future.

7.  IANA Considerations

IANA has created a registry under the "Domain Name System (DNS) Parameters" heading as
follows:

Sury, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9018

Interoperable DNS Server Cookies

April 2021

Registry Name:

DNS Server Cookie Methods

Assignment Policy:

Expert Review

Reference:

[RFC9018],

[RFC7873]

Note:

A Server Cookie method (construction and pseudorandom algorithm) is determined by

the Version in the ﬁrst byte of the cookie and by the cookie size. Server Cookie size is limited
to the inclusive range of 8 to 32 bytes.

Version

Size Method

0

1

1

1

8-32

Reserved

8-15

Unassigned

16

SipHash-2-4 [RFC9018] Section 4

17-32

Unassigned

2-239

8-32

Unassigned

240-254

8-32

Reserved for Private Use

255

8-32

Reserved

Table 1: DNS Server Cookie Methods

8.  Security and Privacy Considerations

DNS Cookies provide limited protection to DNS servers and clients against a variety of denial-of-
service ampliﬁcation, forgery, or cache-poisoning attacks by oﬀ-path attackers. They provide no
protection against on-path adversaries that can observe the plaintext DNS traﬃc. An on-path
adversary that can observe a Server Cookie for a client and server interaction can use that
Server Cookie for denial-of-service ampliﬁcation, forgery, or cache-poisoning attacks directed at
that client for the lifetime of the Server Cookie.

8.1.  Client Cookie Construction

, it was

[RFC7873]

RECOMMENDED

In
function of the Client IP address, the Server IP address, and a secret quantity known only to the
client. The Client IP address was included to ensure that a client could not be tracked if its IP
address changes due to privacy mechanisms or otherwise.

 to construct a Client Cookie by using a pseudorandom

In this document, we changed Client Cookie construction to be just 64 bits of entropy newly
created for each new upstream server the client connects to. As a consequence, additional care
needs to be taken to prevent tracking of clients. To prevent tracking, a new Client Cookie for a
server

 be created whenever the Client IP address changes.

MUST

Sury, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9018

Interoperable DNS Server Cookies

April 2021

Unfortunately, tracking Client IP address changes is impractical with servers that do not support
DNS Cookies. To prevent tracking of clients with non-DNS Cookie-supporting servers, a client
MUST NOT
prevent the creation of a new Client Cookie for each query to a non-DNS Cookie-supporting
server, it is
example ﬁve minutes.

 send a previously sent Client Cookie to a server not known to support DNS Cookies. To

 to not send a Client Cookie to that server for a certain period, for

RECOMMENDED

Summarizing:

•

In order to provide minimal authentication, a client
each diﬀerent Server IP address.

MUST

 use a diﬀerent Client Cookie for

•

To prevent tracking of clients, a new Client Cookie
address changes.

MUST

 be created when the Client IP

•

To prevent tracking of clients by a non-DNS Cookie-supporting server, a client
send a previously sent Client Cookie to a server in the absence of an associated Server
Cookie.

MUST NOT

Note that it is infeasible for a client to detect a change in the public IP address when the client is
behind a routing device performing Network Address Translation (NAT). A server may track the
public IP address of that routing device performing the NAT. Preventing tracking of the public IP
of a NAT-performing routing device is beyond the scope of this document.

8.2.  Server Cookie Construction

 did not give a precise recipe for constructing Server Cookies, but it did recommend

[RFC7873]
usage of a pseudorandom function strong enough to prevent the guessing of cookies. In this
document, SipHash-2-4 is assigned as the pseudorandom function to be used for version 1 Server
Cookies. SipHash-2-4 is considered suﬃciently strong for the immediate future, but predictions
about future development in cryptography and cryptanalysis are beyond the scope of this
document.

The precise structure of version 1 Server Cookies is deﬁned in this document. A portion of the
structure is made up of unhashed data elements that are exposed in cleartext to an on-path
observer. These unhashed data elements are taken along as input to the SipHash-2-4 function of
which the result is the other portion of the Server Cookie, so the unhashed portion of the Server
Cookie cannot be changed by an on-path attacker without also recalculating the hashed portion
for which the Server Secret needs to be known.

One of the elements in the unhashed portion of version 1 Server Cookies is a Timestamp used to
prevent Replay Attacks. Servers verifying version 1 Server Cookies need to have access to a
reliable time value, one that cannot be altered by an attacker, to compare with the Timestamp
value. Furthermore, all servers participating in an anycast set that validate version 1 Server
Cookies need to have their clocks synchronized.

For an on-path adversary observing a Server Cookie (as mentioned in the ﬁrst paragraph of
Section 8), the cleartext Timestamp data element reveals the lifetime during which the observed
Server Cookie can be used to attack the client.

Sury, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9018

Interoperable DNS Server Cookies

April 2021

In addition to the Security Considerations in this section, the Security Considerations section of
[RFC7873]

 still applies.

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[RFC1982]

[RFC2119]

[RFC3339]

[RFC7873]

[RFC8174]

[SipHash-2-4]

Elz, R.
RFC1982

 and

R. Bush "Serial Number Arithmetic" RFC 1982 DOI 10.17487/

,

,

,

, August 1996,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1982>

.

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

 and

Klyne, G.
,
3339 DOI 10.17487/RFC3339
rfc3339>

,

.

C. Newman "Date and Time on the Internet: Timestamps" RFC

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, July 2002,

 and

Eastlake 3rd, D.
,
7873 DOI 10.17487/RFC7873
rfc7873>

.

M. Andrews "Domain Name System (DNS) Cookies" RFC

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2016,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

.

,

,

,

 and

Aumasson, J.
Cryptology - INDOCRYPT 2012 Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 7668
December 2012,

D. J. Bernstein "SipHash: A Fast Short-Input PRF" Progress in

<https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-34931-7_28>

,

,

,

.

,

9.2.  Informative References

[RFC8981]

,

Gont, F. Krishnan, S. Narten, T.
for Stateless Address Autoconﬁguration in IPv6" RFC 8981 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8981

R. Draves "Temporary Address Extensions
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8981>

, February 2021,

, and

,

,

.

,

Appendix A.  Test Vectors

A.1.  Learning a New Server Cookie

A resolver (client) sending from IPv4 address 198.51.100.100 sends a query for example.com to an
authoritative server listening on 192.0.2.53 from which it has not yet learned the server cookie.

Sury, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9018

Interoperable DNS Server Cookies

April 2021

The DNS requests and replies shown in this appendix are in a "dig"-like format. The content of
the DNS COOKIE Option is shown in hexadecimal format after ; COOKIE:.

;; Sending:
;; ->>HEADER<<- opcode: QUERY, status: NOERROR, id: 57406
;; flags:; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 0, AUTHORITY: 0, ADDITIONAL: 1

;; OPT PSEUDOSECTION:
; EDNS: version: 0, flags:; udp: 4096
; COOKIE: 2464c4abcf10c957
;; QUESTION SECTION:
;example.com.                IN      A

;; QUERY SIZE: 52

The authoritative nameserver (server) is conﬁgured with the following secret:
e5e973e5a6b2a43f48e7dc849e37bfcf (as hex data).

It receives the query on Wed Jun 5 10:53:05 UTC 2019.

The content of the DNS COOKIE Option that the server will return is shown below in
hexadecimal format after ; COOKIE:.

The Timestamp ﬁeld Section 4.3 in the returned Server Cookie has value 1559731985. In the
format described in

, this is 2019-06-05 10:53:05+00:00.

[RFC3339]

;; Got answer:
;; ->>HEADER<<- opcode: QUERY, status: NOERROR, id: 57406
;; flags: qr aa; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 1, AUTHORITY: 0, ADDITIONAL: 1

;; OPT PSEUDOSECTION:
; EDNS: version: 0, flags:; udp: 4096
; COOKIE: 2464c4abcf10c957010000005cf79f111f8130c3eee29480 (good)
;; QUESTION SECTION:
;example.com.                IN      A

;; ANSWER SECTION:
example.com.         86400   IN      A       192.0.2.34

;; Query time: 6 msec
;; SERVER: 192.0.2.53#53(192.0.2.53)
;; WHEN: Wed Jun  5 10:53:05 UTC 2019
;; MSD SIZE  rcvd: 84

A.2.  The Same Client Learning a Renewed (Fresh) Server
Cookie

40 minutes later, the same resolver (client) queries the same server for example.org. It reuses
the Server Cookie it learned in the previous query.

Sury, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9018

Interoperable DNS Server Cookies

April 2021

The Timestamp ﬁeld in that previously learned Server Cookie, which is now sent along in the
, this is 2019-06-05 10:53:05+00:00.
request, was and is 1559731985. In the format of

[RFC3339]

;; Sending:
;; ->>HEADER<<- opcode: QUERY, status: NOERROR, id: 50939
;; flags:; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 0, AUTHORITY: 0, ADDITIONAL: 1

;; OPT PSEUDOSECTION:
; EDNS: version: 0, flags:; udp: 4096
; COOKIE: 2464c4abcf10c957010000005cf79f111f8130c3eee29480
;; QUESTION SECTION:
;example.org.                IN      A

;; QUERY SIZE: 52

The authoritative nameserver (server) now generates a new Server Cookie. The server
SHOULD
do this because it can see the Server Cookie sent by the client is older than half an hour (Section
4.3), but it is also ﬁne for a server to generate a new Server Cookie sooner or even for every
answer.

The Timestamp ﬁeld in the returned new Server Cookie has value 1559734385, which, in the
format of

, is 2019-06-05 11:33:05+00:00.

[RFC3339]

;; Got answer:
;; ->>HEADER<<- opcode: QUERY, status: NOERROR, id: 50939
;; flags: qr aa; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 1, AUTHORITY: 0, ADDITIONAL: 1

;; OPT PSEUDOSECTION:
; EDNS: version: 0, flags:; udp: 4096
; COOKIE: 2464c4abcf10c957010000005cf7a871d4a564a1442aca77 (good)
;; QUESTION SECTION:
;example.org.                IN      A

;; ANSWER SECTION:
example.org.         86400   IN      A       192.0.2.34

;; Query time: 6 msec
;; SERVER: 192.0.2.53#53(192.0.2.53)
;; WHEN: Wed Jun  5 11:33:05 UTC 2019
;; MSD SIZE  rcvd: 84

A.3.  Another Client Learning a Renewed Server Cookie

Another resolver (client) with IPv4 address 203.0.113.203 sends a request to the same server with
a valid Server Cookie that it learned before (on Wed Jun 5 09:46:25 UTC 2019).

The Timestamp ﬁeld of the Server Cookie in the request has value 1559727985, which, in the
format of

, is 2019-06-05 09:46:25+00:00.

[RFC3339]

Sury, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9018

Interoperable DNS Server Cookies

April 2021

Note that the Server Cookie has Reserved bytes set but is still valid with the conﬁgured secret; the
Hash part is calculated taking along the Reserved bytes.

;; Sending:
;; ->>HEADER<<- opcode: QUERY, status: NOERROR, id: 34736
;; flags:; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 0, AUTHORITY: 0, ADDITIONAL: 1

;; OPT PSEUDOSECTION:
; EDNS: version: 0, flags:; udp: 4096
; COOKIE: fc93fc62807ddb8601abcdef5cf78f71a314227b6679ebf5
;; QUESTION SECTION:
;example.com.                IN      A

;; QUERY SIZE: 52

The authoritative nameserver (server) replies with a freshly generated Server Cookie for this
client conformant with this speciﬁcation, i.e., with the Reserved bits set to zero.

The Timestamp ﬁeld in the returned new Server Cookie has value 1559734700, which, in the
format of

, is 2019-06-05 11:38:20+00:00.

[RFC3339]

;; Got answer:
;; ->>HEADER<<- opcode: QUERY, status: NOERROR, id: 34736
;; flags: qr aa; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 1, AUTHORITY: 0, ADDITIONAL: 1

;; OPT PSEUDOSECTION:
; EDNS: version: 0, flags:; udp: 4096
; COOKIE: fc93fc62807ddb86010000005cf7a9acf73a7810aca2381e (good)
;; QUESTION SECTION:
;example.com.                IN      A

;; ANSWER SECTION:
example.com.         86400   IN      A       192.0.2.34

;; Query time: 6 msec
;; SERVER: 192.0.2.53#53(192.0.2.53)
;; WHEN: Wed Jun  5 11:38:20 UTC 2019
;; MSD SIZE  rcvd: 84

A.4.  IPv6 Query with Rolled Over Secret

The query below is from a client with IPv6 address 2001:db8:220:1:59de:d0f4:8769:82b8 to a
server with IPv6 address 2001:db8:8f::53. The client has learned a valid Server Cookie before (on
Wed Jun 5 13:36:57 UTC 2019) when the Server had the secret:
dd3bdf9344b678b185a6f5cb60fca715. The server now uses a new secret, but it can still validate
the Server Cookie provided by the client as the old secret has not expired yet.

Sury, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9018

Interoperable DNS Server Cookies

April 2021

The Timestamp ﬁeld in the Server Cookie in the request has value 1559741817, which, in the
format of

, is 2019-06-05 13:36:57+00:00.

[RFC3339]

;; Sending:
;; ->>HEADER<<- opcode: QUERY, status: NOERROR, id: 6774
;; flags:; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 0, AUTHORITY: 0, ADDITIONAL: 1

;; OPT PSEUDOSECTION:
; EDNS: version: 0, flags:; udp: 4096
; COOKIE: 22681ab97d52c298010000005cf7c57926556bd0934c72f8
;; QUESTION SECTION:
;example.net.                IN      A

;; QUERY SIZE: 52

The authoritative nameserver (server) replies with a freshly generated server cookie for this
client with its new secret: 445536bcd2513298075a5d379663c962.

The Timestamp ﬁeld in the returned new Server Cookie has value 1559741961, which, in the
format of

, is 2019-06-05 13:39:21+00:00.

[RFC3339]

;; Got answer:
;; ->>HEADER<<- opcode: QUERY, status: NOERROR, id: 6774
;; flags: qr aa; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 1, AUTHORITY: 0, ADDITIONAL: 1

;; OPT PSEUDOSECTION:
; EDNS: version: 0, flags:; udp: 4096
; COOKIE: 22681ab97d52c298010000005cf7c609a6bb79d16625507a (good)
;; QUESTION SECTION:
;example.net.                IN      A

;; ANSWER SECTION:
example.net.         86400   IN      A       192.0.2.34

;; Query time: 6 msec
;; SERVER: 2001:db8:8f::53#53(2001:db8:8f::53)
;; WHEN: Wed Jun  5 13:36:57 UTC 2019
;; MSD SIZE  rcvd: 84

Appendix B.  Implementation Status

At the time of writing, BIND from version 9.16 and Knot DNS from version 2.9.0 create Server
Cookies according to the recipe described in this document. Unbound and NSD have a Proof-of-
Concept implementation that has been tested for interoperability during the hackathon at IETF
104 in Prague. Construction of privacy maintaining Client Cookies according to the directions in
this document have been implemented in the getdns library and will be in the upcoming
getdns-1.6.1 release and in Stubby version 0.3.1.

Sury, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9018

Interoperable DNS Server Cookies

April 2021

Acknowledgements

 and

Pieter Lexis

Witold Krecicki

 for valuable input, suggestions, text, and above all for
Thanks to
implementing a prototype of an interoperable DNS Cookie in Bind9, Knot, and PowerDNS during
Ralph
the hackathon at IETF 104 in Prague. Thanks for valuable input and suggestions go to
Dolmans Bob Harold Daniel Salzman Martin Hoﬀmann Mukund Sivaraman Petr Spacek
,
Loganaden Velvindron Bob Harold Philip Homburg Tim Wicinski

,
Brian Dickson

, and

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

.

Authors' Addresses

Ondrej Sury
Internet Systems Consortium
Czechia
Email:

 ondrej@isc.org

Willem Toorop
NLnet Labs
Science Park 400
1098 XH Amsterdam
Netherlands
Email:

 willem@nlnetlabs.nl

Donald E. Eastlake 3rd
Futurewei Technologies
2386 Panoramic Circle
Apopka FL 32703
,
United States of America
 +1-508-333-2270
Phone:
Email:
 d3e3e3@gmail.com

Mark Andrews
Internet Systems Consortium
950 Charter Street
Redwood City CA 94063
United States of America
Email:

 marka@isc.org

,

Sury, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

