Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9848
Standards Track
March 2026
2070-1721
B. Schwartz
Meta Platforms, Inc.

M. Bishop
Akamai Technologies

E. Nygren
Akamai Technologies

RFC 9848
Bootstrapping TLS Encrypted ClientHello with DNS
Service Bindings

Abstract

To use TLS Encrypted ClientHello (ECH), the client needs to learn the ECH configuration for a
server before it attempts a connection to the server. This specification provides a mechanism for
conveying the ECH configuration information via DNS, using a SVCB or HTTPS resource record
(RR).

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9848
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2026 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Schwartz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9848

ECH in SVCB

March 2026

Table of Contents

1.  Overview

2.  Terminology

3.  SvcParam for ECH Configuration

4.  Requirements for Server Deployments

5.  Requirements for Client Implementations

5.1.  Disabling Fallback

5.2.  ClientHello Construction

5.3.  Performance Optimizations

6.  Interaction with HTTP Alt-Svc

7.  Examples

8.  Security Considerations

9.  IANA Considerations

10. References

10.1.  Normative References

10.2.  Informative References

Authors' Addresses

1.  Overview

2

3

3

3

3

4

4

4

4

5

6

7

7

7

8

9

[SVCB]

 allows server operators to publish a detailed

The Service Bindings framework
description of their service in the Domain Name System (DNS) (see
using SVCB or HTTPS records. Each SVCB record describes a single "alternative endpoint" and
contains a collection of "SvcParams" that can be extended with new kinds of information that
may be of interest to a client. Clients can use the SvcParams to improve the privacy, security, and
performance of their connection to this endpoint.

[RFC1034]

[BCP219]
)

 and

This specification defines a new SvcParam to enable the use of TLS Encrypted ClientHello
in TLS-based protocols. This SvcParam can be used in SVCB, HTTPS, or any future SVCB-
compatible DNS records and is intended to serve as the primary bootstrap mechanism for ECH.

[ECH]

Schwartz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9848

ECH in SVCB

March 2026

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  SvcParam for ECH Configuration

The "ech" SvcParamKey conveys the ECH configuration of an alternative endpoint. It is
applicable to all schemes that use TLS-based protocols (including DTLS
version 1

) unless otherwise specified.

[RFC9147]

[RFC9001]

 and QUIC

In wire format, the value of the parameter is an ECHConfigList (
redundant length prefix. In presentation format, the value is the ECHConfigList in Base 64
encoding (
software. To enable simpler parsing, this SvcParam

). Base 64 is used here to simplify integration with TLS server

 contain escape sequences.

Section 4 of [RFC4648]

Section 4 of [ECH]

MUST NOT

), including the

This example uses line wrapping per

[RFC8792]
.

ech="AEj+DQBEAQAgACAdd+scUi0IYFsXnUIU7ko2Nd9+F8M26pAGZVpz/KrWPgAEAAE\
AAWQVZWNoLXNpdGVzLmV4YW1wbGUubmV0AAA="

Figure 1: ECH SvcParam with a public_name of "ech-sites.example.net"

4.  Requirements for Server Deployments

When publishing a record containing an "ech" parameter, the publisher
addresses of TargetName correspond to servers that have access to the corresponding private
key or are authoritative for the public name. (See Sections 6.1.7 and 8.1.1 of
requirements related to the public name.) Otherwise, connections will fail entirely.

 ensure that all IP

[ECH]

MUST

 for

SHOULD

 support a protocol version that is compatible with ECH. At the time of

These servers
writing, the compatible versions are TLS 1.3, DTLS 1.3, and QUIC version 1. If the server does not
support a compatible version, each connection attempt will have to be retried, delaying the
connection and wasting resources.

5.  Requirements for Client Implementations

This section describes client behavior in using ECH configurations provided in SVCB or HTTPS
records.

Schwartz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9848

ECH in SVCB

March 2026

5.1.  Disabling Fallback

The SVCB-optional client behavior specified in
direct connection if all SVCB options fail. This behavior is not suitable for ECH, because fallback
would negate the privacy benefits of ECH. Accordingly, ECH-capable, SVCB-optional clients
MUST
switch to SVCB-reliant connection establishment if SVCB resolution succeeded (as defined in
Section 3 of [SVCB]
) and all alternative endpoints have an "ech" SvcParam.

 permits clients to fall back to a

Section 3 of [SVCB]

5.2.  ClientHello Construction

When ECH is in use, the TLS ClientHello is divided into an unencrypted "outer" and an encrypted
"inner" ClientHello. The outer ClientHello is an implementation detail of ECH, and its contents
are controlled by the ECHConfig in accordance with
establishing a connection to the service, so its contents may be influenced by other SVCB
parameters. For example, the requirements related to Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation
(ALPN) protocol identifiers in
Similarly, it is the inner ClientHello whose Server Name Indication (SNI) identifies the desired
service.

 apply only to the inner ClientHello.

. The inner ClientHello is used for

Section 7.1.2 of [SVCB]

[ECH]

5.3.  Performance Optimizations

Prior to retrieving the SVCB records, the client does not know whether they contain an "ech"
parameter. As a latency optimization, clients
this parameter is not present (i.e., only in SVCB-optional mode).

 prefetch DNS records that will only be used if

MAY

The "ech" SvcParam alters the contents of the TLS ClientHello if it is present. Therefore, clients
that support ECH
(See

 issue any TLS ClientHello until after SVCB resolution has completed.

Section 5.1 of [SVCB]

MUST NOT

.)

6.  Interaction with HTTP Alt-Svc

[SVCB]
HTTP clients that implement both HTTP Alt-Svc
use them together, provided that they only perform connection attempts that are "consistent"
). At the time of writing, there is no defined
with both sets of parameters (
parameter related to ECH for Alt-Svc. Accordingly, a connection attempt that uses ECH is
considered "consistent" with an Alt-Svc field value that does not mention ECH.

 and the HTTPS record type

Section 9.3 of [SVCB]

[RFC7838]

 can

Origins that publish an "ech" SvcParam in their HTTPS record
record with the "ech" SvcParam for every alt-authority offered in its Alt-Svc field values.
Otherwise, clients might reveal the name of the server in an unencrypted ClientHello to an alt-
authority.

 also publish an HTTPS

SHOULD

If all HTTPS records for an alt-authority contain "ech" SvcParams, the client
reliant behavior (as in Section 5.1) for that resource record set (RRSet). This precludes the use of
certain connections that Alt-Svc would otherwise allow, as discussed in

Section 9.3 of [SVCB]
.

 adopt SVCB-

MUST

Schwartz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9848

ECH in SVCB

March 2026

7.  Examples

$ORIGIN simple.example. ; Simple example zone
@ 300 IN A     192.0.2.1
         AAAA  2001:db8::1
         HTTPS 1 . ech=ABC...
www 300 IN A 192.0.2.1
           AAAA 2001:db8::1
           HTTPS 1 . ech=ABC...

Figure 2: Simple Example Zone with the Same Configuration on the Apex and Web Domain

The example above is compatible with clients that do or do not support HTTPS records.

$ORIGIN heterogeneous.example. ; Example zone with 2 pools of servers
pool1 300 IN    A    192.0.2.1
                AAAA 2001:db8:1::a
pool2 300 IN    A    192.0.2.2
                AAAA 2001:db8:2::a
service 300 IN SVCB 1 pool1 ech=ABC...
               SVCB 1 pool2 ech=DEF...
               A 192.0.2.1
               A 192.0.2.2
               AAAA 2001:db8:1::a
               AAAA 2001:db8:2::a

Figure 3: Service That Allows Clients to Choose Between Two Server Pools with Different ECH
Configurations

$ORIGIN cdn.example. ; CDN operator zone
pool 300 IN A 192.0.2.1
            AAAA 2001:db8::1
            HTTPS 1 . ech=ABC...

$ORIGIN customer.example. ; CDN customer's zone
@   3600 IN HTTPS 0 pool.cdn.example.
; Apex IP records for compatibility with clients that do not support
; HTTPS records.
@   300  IN A    192.0.2.1
            AAAA 2001:db8::1

www 300  IN CNAME pool.cdn.example.

Figure 4: ECH Usage Pattern for an Aliasing-Based CDN

Schwartz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9848

ECH in SVCB

March 2026

$ORIGIN secret.example. ; High confidentiality zone
www     3600 IN HTTPS 1 backend ech=ABC... mandatory=ech
backend 300  IN A     192.0.2.1
                AAAA  2001:db8::1

Figure 5: A Domain That is Only Reachable Using ECH

$ORIGIN cdn1.example. ; First CDN operator zone
pool 300 IN A     192.0.2.1
            AAAA  2001:db8::1
            HTTPS 1 . ech=ABC...

$ORIGIN cdn2.example. ; Second CDN operator zone
pool 300 IN A     192.0.2.2
            AAAA  2001:db8::2
            HTTPS 1 . ech=DEF...

;; Multi-CDN customer zone (version 1)
$ORIGIN customer.example.
@   3600 IN HTTPS 0 pool.cdn1.example.
; Apex IP records for compatibility with clients that do not support
; HTTPS records.
@   300  IN A    192.0.2.1
            AAAA 2001:db8::1
www 3600  IN CNAME pool.cdn1.example.

;; Multi-CDN customer zone (version 2)
@   3600 IN HTTPS 0 pool.cdn2.example.
@   300  IN A    192.0.2.2
            AAAA 2001:db8::2
www 3600  IN CNAME pool.cdn2.example.

Figure 6: Multi-CDN Configuration Using Server-Side Selection

$ORIGIN dns.example. ; DNS server example.
@    3600 IN A     192.0.2.1
             AAAA  2001:db8::1
             HTTPS 1 . ech=ABC... alpn=h3 dohpath=/q{?dns}

_dns 3600 IN SVCB  1 @ ech=ABC... alpn=dot,doq,h3 dohpath=/q{?dns}

Figure 7: Example of a DNS Server That Supports ECH

8.  Security Considerations

A SVCB RRSet containing some RRs with "ech" and some without is vulnerable to a downgrade
attack: A network intermediary can block connections to the endpoints that support ECH,
causing the client to fall back to a non-ECH endpoint. This configuration is
,
NOT RECOMMENDED
but it may be unavoidable when combining endpoints from different providers or conducting a

Schwartz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9848

ECH in SVCB

March 2026

 mark the RRs with
staged rollout. Zone owners who do use such a mixed configuration
"ech" as more preferred (i.e., lower SvcPriority value) than those without, in order to maximize
the likelihood that ECH will be used in the absence of an active adversary.

SHOULD

When Encrypted ClientHello is deployed, the inner TLS SNI is protected from disclosure to
attackers. However, there are still many ways that an attacker might infer the SNI. Even in an
idealized deployment, ECH's protection is limited to an anonymity set consisting of all the ECH-
enabled server domains supported by a given client-facing server that share an ECH
configuration. An attacker who can enumerate this set can always guess the encrypted SNI with
a probability of at least 1/K, where K is the number of domains in the set. Some attackers may
achieve much greater accuracy using traffic analysis, popularity weighting, and other
mechanisms (e.g., see

[CLINIC]

).

ECH ensures that TLS does not disclose the SNI, but the same information is also present in the
DNS queries used to resolve the server's hostname. This specification does not conceal the server
name from the DNS resolver. If DNS messages are sent between the client and resolver without
authenticated encryption, an attacker on this path can also learn the destination server name. A
similar attack applies if the client can be linked to a request from the resolver to a DNS authority.

An attacker who can prevent SVCB resolution can deny clients any associated security benefits.
A hostile recursive resolver can always deny service to SVCB queries, but network
intermediaries can often prevent resolution as well, even when the client and recursive resolver
validate DNSSEC
client from being aware that "ech" is configured, which could result in the client sending the
ClientHello in cleartext. To prevent downgrades,
abandon the connection attempt when such an attack is detected.

 and use a secure transport. These downgrade attacks can prevent a

 recommends that clients

Section 3.1 of [SVCB]

[RFC9364]

9.  IANA Considerations

IANA has modified the entry for "ech" in the "DNS SVCB Service Parameter Keys
(SvcParamKeys)" registry in the "DNS Service Bindings (SVCB)" registry group as follows:

Number Name Meaning

Change Controller

Reference

5

ech

TLS Encrypted ClientHello Config

IETF

RFC 9848

Table 1

10.  References

10.1.  Normative References

[ECH]

,

Rescorla, E. Oku, K. Sullivan, N.
RFC 9849 DOI 10.17487/RFC9849
rfc9849>

,
.

,

, and
, March 2026,

C. A. Wood "TLS Encrypted Client Hello"
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

Schwartz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9848

ECH in SVCB

March 2026

[RFC1034]

[RFC2119]

[RFC4648]

[RFC8174]

[RFC9364]

[SVCB]

Mockapetris, P. "Domain names - concepts and facilities" STD 13 RFC 1034 DOI
10.17487/RFC1034

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1034>

, November 1987,

,

,

,

.

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Josefsson, S. "The Base16, Base32, and Base64 Data Encodings" RFC 4648 DOI
10.17487/RFC4648

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4648>

, October 2006,

,

,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Hoffman, P. "DNS Security Extensions (DNSSEC)" BCP 237 RFC 9364 DOI
10.17487/RFC9364

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9364>

, February 2023,

,

,

,

,

.

Schwartz, B. Bishop, M.
,
,
Specification via the DNS (SVCB and HTTPS Resource Records)" RFC 9460 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9460>
10.17487/RFC9460
.

E. Nygren "Service Binding and Parameter

, November 2023,

, and

,

,

10.2.  Informative References

[BCP219]

Best Current Practice 219,
At the time of writing, this BCP comprises the following:

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/bcp219>
.

Hoffman, P.
10.17487/RFC9499

 and

K. Fujiwara "DNS Terminology" BCP 219 RFC 9499 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9499>

, March 2024,

,

,

,

,

.

[CLINIC]

[RFC7838]

[RFC8792]

[RFC9001]

[RFC9147]

,

,

Miller, B. Huang, L. Joseph, A.
Clinic: Risks and Realization of HTTPS Traffic Analysis" Lecture Notes in
Computer Science, vol. 8555, pp. 143-163 DOI 10.1007/978-3-319-08506-7_8
<https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-08506-7_8>

J. Tygar "I Know Why You Went to the
,

, and

,

,

.

, 2014,

,

Nottingham, M. McManus, P.
7838 DOI 10.17487/RFC7838
,
rfc7838>

.

, and
, April 2016,

J. Reschke "HTTP Alternative Services" RFC
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

,

Watsen, K. Auerswald, E. Farrel, A.
Content of Internet-Drafts and RFCs" RFC 8792 DOI 10.17487/RFC8792
2020,

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8792>
.

Q. Wu "Handling Long Lines in

, and
,

,

, June

Thomson, M., Ed.
10.17487/RFC9001

 and
, May 2021,

S. Turner, Ed. "Using TLS to Secure QUIC" RFC 9001 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9001>

,

,

,

.

,

Rescorla, E. Tschofenig, H.
Security (DTLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 9147 DOI 10.17487/RFC9147
2022,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9147>

N. Modadugu "The Datagram Transport Layer

, April

, and

,
.

,

,

Schwartz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9848

ECH in SVCB

March 2026

Authors' Addresses

Ben Schwartz
Meta Platforms, Inc.
Email:

ietf@bemasc.net

Mike Bishop
Akamai Technologies
Email:

mbishop@evequefou.be

Erik Nygren
Akamai Technologies
Email:

erik+ietf@nygren.org

Schwartz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

