Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9297
Standards Track
August 2022
2070-1721
D. Schinazi
Google LLC

L. Pardue
Cloudflare

RFC 9297
HTTP Datagrams and the Capsule Protocol

Abstract

This document describes HTTP Datagrams, a convention for conveying multiplexed, potentially
unreliable datagrams inside an HTTP connection.

In HTTP/3, HTTP Datagrams can be sent unreliably using the QUIC DATAGRAM extension. When
the QUIC DATAGRAM frame is unavailable or undesirable, HTTP Datagrams can be sent using the
Capsule Protocol, which is a more general convention for conveying data in HTTP connections.

HTTP Datagrams and the Capsule Protocol are intended for use by HTTP extensions, not
applications.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9297
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Schinazi & Pardue

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9297

HTTP Datagrams

August 2022

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Conventions and Definitions

2.  HTTP Datagrams

2.1.  HTTP/3 Datagrams

2.1.1.  The SETTINGS_H3_DATAGRAM HTTP/3 Setting

2.2.  HTTP Datagrams Using Capsules

3.  Capsules

3.1.  HTTP Data Streams

3.2.  The Capsule Protocol

3.3.  Error Handling

3.4.  The Capsule-Protocol Header Field

3.5.  The DATAGRAM Capsule

4.  Security Considerations

5.  IANA Considerations

5.1.  HTTP/3 Setting

5.2.  HTTP/3 Error Code

5.3.  HTTP Header Field Name

5.4.  Capsule Types

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

6.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

Schinazi & Pardue

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9297

HTTP Datagrams

August 2022

1.  Introduction

HTTP extensions (as defined in
transport protocol features such as unreliable delivery (as offered by
) to enable
desirable features. For example, this could allow for the introduction of an unreliable version of
the CONNECT method and the addition of unreliable delivery to WebSockets

) sometimes need to access underlying

Section 16 of [HTTP]

[QUIC-DGRAM]

[WEBSOCKET]
.

In Section 2, this document describes HTTP Datagrams, a convention for conveying bidirectional
and potentially unreliable datagrams inside an HTTP connection, with multiplexing when
possible. While HTTP Datagrams are associated with HTTP requests, they are not a part of
message content. Instead, they are intended for use by HTTP extensions (such as the CONNECT
method) and are compatible with all versions of HTTP.

When HTTP is running over a transport protocol that supports unreliable delivery (such as when
the QUIC DATAGRAM extension
Datagrams can use that capability.

 is available to HTTP/3

[QUIC-DGRAM]

[HTTP/3]

), HTTP

In Section 3, this document describes the HTTP Capsule Protocol, which allows the conveyance of
HTTP Datagrams using reliable delivery. This addresses HTTP/3 cases where use of the QUIC
DATAGRAM frame is unavailable or undesirable or where the transport protocol only provides
reliable delivery, such as with HTTP/1.1

 or HTTP/2

[HTTP/1.1]

 over TCP

[HTTP/2]

[TCP]
.

1.1.  Conventions and Definitions

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

This document uses terminology from

[QUIC]
.

Where this document defines protocol types, the definition format uses the notation from
1.3 of [QUIC]
integer encoding from
minimum number of bytes necessary.

. Where fields within types are integers, they are encoded using the variable-length

. Integer values do not need to be encoded on the

Section 16 of [QUIC]

Section

In this document, the term "intermediary" refers to an HTTP intermediary as defined in
3.7 of [HTTP]
.

Section

2.  HTTP Datagrams

HTTP Datagrams are a convention for conveying bidirectional and potentially unreliable
datagrams inside an HTTP connection with multiplexing when possible. All HTTP Datagrams are
associated with an HTTP request.

Schinazi & Pardue

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9297

HTTP Datagrams

August 2022

When HTTP Datagrams are conveyed on an HTTP/3 connection, the QUIC DATAGRAM frame can
be used to provide demultiplexing and unreliable delivery; see Section 2.1. Negotiating the use of
QUIC DATAGRAM frames for HTTP Datagrams is achieved via the exchange of HTTP/3 settings;
see Section 2.1.1.

When running over HTTP/2, demultiplexing is provided by the HTTP/2 framing layer, but
unreliable delivery is unavailable. HTTP Datagrams are negotiated and conveyed using the
Capsule Protocol; see Section 3.5.

When running over HTTP/1.x, requests are strictly serialized in the connection; therefore,
demultiplexing is not available. Unreliable delivery is likewise not available. HTTP Datagrams
are negotiated and conveyed using the Capsule Protocol; see Section 3.5.

MUST

 only be sent with an association to an HTTP request that explicitly

HTTP Datagrams
supports them. For example, existing HTTP methods GET and POST do not define semantics for
associated HTTP Datagrams; therefore, HTTP Datagrams associated with GET or POST request
streams cannot be sent.

If an HTTP Datagram is received and it is associated with a request that has no known semantics
for HTTP Datagrams, the receiver
 be aborted with H3_DATAGRAM_ERROR (0x33). HTTP extensions
stream
these requirements by defining a negotiation mechanism and semantics for HTTP Datagrams.

 terminate the request. If HTTP/3 is in use, the request

 override

MUST

MUST

MAY

2.1.  HTTP/3 Datagrams

When used with HTTP/3, the Datagram Data field of QUIC DATAGRAM frames uses the following
format:

HTTP/3 Datagram {
  Quarter Stream ID (i),
  HTTP Datagram Payload (..),
}

Figure 1: HTTP/3 Datagram Format

Quarter Stream ID:

A variable-length integer that contains the value of the client-initiated

bidirectional stream that this datagram is associated with divided by four (the division by
four stems from the fact that HTTP requests are sent on client-initiated bidirectional streams,
which have stream IDs that are divisible by four). The largest legal QUIC stream ID value is
262-1, so the largest legal value of the Quarter Stream ID field is 260-1. Receipt of an HTTP/3
Datagram that includes a larger value
H3_DATAGRAM_ERROR (0x33).

 be treated as an HTTP/3 connection error of type

MUST

HTTP Datagram Payload:

The payload of the datagram, whose semantics are defined by the

extension that is using HTTP Datagrams. Note that this field can be empty.

Schinazi & Pardue

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9297

HTTP Datagrams

August 2022

Receipt of a QUIC DATAGRAM frame whose payload is too short to allow parsing the Quarter
Stream ID field
(0x33).

 be treated as an HTTP/3 connection error of type H3_DATAGRAM_ERROR

MUST

HTTP/3 Datagrams
datagram is received after the corresponding stream's receive side is closed, the received
datagrams

 be sent unless the corresponding stream's send side is open. If a

 be silently dropped.

MUST NOT

MUST

If an HTTP/3 Datagram is received and its Quarter Stream ID field maps to a stream that has not
yet been created, the receiver
 either drop that datagram silently or buffer it temporarily
(on the order of a round trip) while awaiting the creation of the corresponding stream.

SHALL

If an HTTP/3 Datagram is received and its Quarter Stream ID field maps to a stream that cannot
be created due to client-initiated bidirectional stream limits, it
 be treated as an HTTP/3
connection error of type H3_ID_ERROR. Generating an error is not mandatory because the QUIC
stream limit might be unknown to the HTTP/3 layer.

SHOULD

Prioritization of HTTP/3 Datagrams is not defined in this document. Future extensions
define how to prioritize datagrams and
 define signaling to allow communicating
prioritization preferences.

MAY

MAY

2.1.1.  The SETTINGS_H3_DATAGRAM HTTP/3 Setting

An endpoint can indicate to its peer that it is willing to receive HTTP/3 Datagrams by sending the
SETTINGS_H3_DATAGRAM (0x33) setting with a value of 1.

The value of the SETTINGS_H3_DATAGRAM setting
that the implementation is not willing to receive HTTP Datagrams. If the
SETTINGS_H3_DATAGRAM setting is received with a value that is neither 0 nor 1, the receiver
MUST

 terminate the connection with error H3_SETTINGS_ERROR.

 be either 0 or 1. A value of 0 indicates

MUST

QUIC DATAGRAM frames
both sent and received with a value of 1.

MUST NOT

 be sent until the SETTINGS_H3_DATAGRAM setting has been

MAY

When clients use 0-RTT, they
 store the value of the server's SETTINGS_H3_DATAGRAM
setting. Doing so allows the client to send QUIC DATAGRAM frames in 0-RTT packets. When
servers decide to accept 0-RTT data, they
than or equal to the value they sent to the client in the connection where they sent them the
NewSessionTicket message. If a client stores the value of the SETTINGS_H3_DATAGRAM setting
with their 0-RTT state, they
 validate that the new value of the SETTINGS_H3_DATAGRAM
setting sent by the server in the handshake is greater than or equal to the stored value; if not, the
client
 terminate the connection with error H3_SETTINGS_ERROR. In all cases, the
maximum permitted value of the SETTINGS_H3_DATAGRAM setting parameter is 1.

 send a SETTINGS_H3_DATAGRAM setting greater

MUST

MUST

MUST

RECOMMENDED

It is
 that implementations that support receiving HTTP/3 Datagrams always send
the SETTINGS_H3_DATAGRAM setting with a value of 1, even if the application does not intend to
use HTTP/3 Datagrams. This helps to avoid "sticking out"; see Section 4.

Schinazi & Pardue

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9297

HTTP Datagrams

August 2022

2.2.  HTTP Datagrams Using Capsules

When HTTP/3 Datagrams are unavailable or undesirable, HTTP Datagrams can be sent using the
Capsule Protocol; see Section 3.5.

3.  Capsules

. In HTTP/1.x, these tokens are used via the Upgrade mechanism; see

One mechanism to extend HTTP is to introduce new HTTP upgrade tokens; see
[HTTP]
In HTTP/2 and HTTP/3, these tokens are used via the Extended CONNECT mechanism; see
CONNECT2]

[EXT-CONNECT3]
.

Section 16.7 of
Section 7.8 of [HTTP]
.

[EXT-

 and

This specification introduces the Capsule Protocol. The Capsule Protocol is a sequence of type-
length-value tuples that definitions of new HTTP upgrade tokens can choose to use. It allows
endpoints to reliably communicate request-related information end-to-end on HTTP request
streams, even in the presence of HTTP intermediaries. The Capsule Protocol can be used to
exchange HTTP Datagrams, which is necessary when HTTP is running over a transport that does
not support the QUIC DATAGRAM frame. The Capsule Protocol can also be used to communicate
reliable and bidirectional control messages associated with a datagram-based protocol even
when HTTP/3 Datagrams are in use.

3.1.  HTTP Data Streams

This specification defines the "data stream" of an HTTP request as the bidirectional stream of
bytes that follows the header section of the request message and the final response message that
is either successful (i.e., 2xx) or upgraded (i.e., 101).

In HTTP/1.x, the data stream consists of all bytes on the connection that follow the blank line that
concludes either the request header section or the final response header section. As a result, only
the last HTTP request on an HTTP/1.x connection can start the Capsule Protocol.

In HTTP/2 and HTTP/3, the data stream of a given HTTP request consists of all bytes sent in DATA
frames with the corresponding stream ID.

The concept of a data stream is particularly relevant for methods such as CONNECT, where there
is no HTTP message content after the headers.

Data streams can be prioritized using any means suited to stream or request prioritization. For
example, see

Section 11 of [PRIORITY]
.

Data streams are subject to the flow control mechanisms of the underlying layers; examples
include HTTP/2 stream flow control, HTTP/2 connection flow control, and TCP flow control.

Schinazi & Pardue

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9297

HTTP Datagrams

August 2022

3.2.  The Capsule Protocol

Definitions of new HTTP upgrade tokens can state that their associated request's data stream
uses the Capsule Protocol. If they do so, the contents of the associated request's data stream uses
the following format:

Capsule Protocol {
  Capsule (..) ...,
}

Figure 2: Capsule Protocol Stream Format

Capsule {
  Capsule Type (i),
  Capsule Length (i),
  Capsule Value (..),
}

Figure 3: Capsule Format

Capsule Type:

A variable-length integer indicating the type of the capsule. An IANA registry is

used to manage the assignment of Capsule Types; see Section 5.4.

Capsule Length:

The length, in bytes, of the Capsule Value field, which follows this field,

encoded as a variable-length integer. Note that this field can have a value of zero.

Capsule Value:

The payload of this Capsule. Its semantics are determined by the value of the

Capsule Type field.

An intermediary can identify the use of the Capsule Protocol either through the presence of the
Capsule-Protocol header field (Section 3.4) or by understanding the chosen HTTP Upgrade token.

Because new protocols or extensions might define new Capsule Types, intermediaries that wish
to allow for future extensibility
definition of the Capsule Type in use specifies additional intermediary processing. One such
Capsule Type is the DATAGRAM Capsule; see Section 3.5. In particular, intermediaries
forward Capsules with an unknown Capsule Type without modification.

 forward Capsules without modification unless the

SHOULD

SHOULD

Endpoints that receive a Capsule with an unknown Capsule Type
and skip over it to parse the next Capsule.

MUST

 silently drop that Capsule

By virtue of the definition of the data stream:

•

The Capsule Protocol is not in use unless the response includes a 2xx (Successful) or 101
(Switching Protocols) status code.

Schinazi & Pardue

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9297

HTTP Datagrams

August 2022

•

When the Capsule Protocol is in use, the associated HTTP request and response do not carry
HTTP content. A future extension

 define a new Capsule Type to carry HTTP content.

MAY

The Capsule Protocol only applies to definitions of new HTTP upgrade tokens; thus, in HTTP/2
and HTTP/3, it can only be used with the CONNECT method. Therefore, once both endpoints
agree to use the Capsule Protocol, the frame usage requirements of the stream change as
specified in

Section 4.4 of [HTTP/3]
.

Section 8.5 of [HTTP/2]

 and

MUST NOT

 be used with messages that contain Content-Length, Content-

The Capsule Protocol
Type, or Transfer-Encoding header fields. Additionally, HTTP status codes 204 (No Content), 205
(Reset Content), and 206 (Partial Content)
MUST NOT
Protocol. A receiver that observes a violation of these requirements
message as malformed.

 be sent on responses that use the Capsule

 treat the HTTP

MUST

When processing Capsules, a receiver might be tempted to accumulate the full length of the
Capsule Value field in the data stream before handling it. This approach
 be avoided
because it can consume flow control in underlying layers, and that might lead to deadlocks if the
Capsule data exhausts the flow control window.

SHOULD

3.3.  Error Handling

When a receiver encounters an error processing the Capsule Protocol, the receiver
as if it had received a malformed or incomplete HTTP message. For HTTP/3, the handling of
malformed messages is described in
malformed messages is described in
incomplete messages is described in

Section 4.1.2 of [HTTP/3]
Section 8.1.1 of [HTTP/2]
Section 8 of [HTTP/1.1]
.

. For HTTP/2, the handling of
. For HTTP/1.x, the handling of

MUST

 treat it

MUST

 contain exactly the fields identified in its description. A Capsule

Each Capsule's payload
payload that contains additional bytes after the identified fields or a Capsule payload that
terminates before the end of the identified fields
incomplete message. In particular, redundant length encodings
consistent.

 be treated as it if were a malformed or

 be verified to be self-

MUST

MUST

If the receive side of a stream carrying Capsules is terminated cleanly (for example, in HTTP/3
this is defined as receiving a QUIC STREAM frame with the FIN bit set) and the last Capsule on the
stream was truncated, this

 be treated as if it were a malformed or incomplete message.

MUST

3.4.  The Capsule-Protocol Header Field

MUST

. Its value

 be a Boolean; any other value type

The "Capsule-Protocol" header field is an Item Structured Field; see
FIELDS]
not present by recipients (for example, if this field is included multiple times, its type will
become a List and the field will be ignored). This document does not define any parameters for
the Capsule-Protocol header field value, but future documents might define parameters.
Receivers

Section 3.3 of [STRUCTURED-
 be handled as if the field were

 ignore unknown parameters.

MUST

MUST

Schinazi & Pardue

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9297

HTTP Datagrams

August 2022

Endpoints indicate that the Capsule Protocol is in use on a data stream by sending a Capsule-
Protocol header field with a true value. A Capsule-Protocol header field with a false value has the
same semantics as when the header is not present.

 use this header field to allow processing of HTTP Datagrams for unknown
Intermediaries
HTTP upgrade tokens. Note that this is only possible for HTTP Upgrade or Extended CONNECT.

MAY

The Capsule-Protocol header field
is both different from 101 (Switching Protocols) and outside the 2xx (Successful) range.

 be used on HTTP responses with a status code that

MUST NOT

When using the Capsule Protocol, HTTP endpoints
field to simplify intermediary processing. Definitions of new HTTP upgrade tokens that use the
Capsule Protocol

 send the Capsule-Protocol header

 alter this recommendation.

SHOULD

MAY

3.5.  The DATAGRAM Capsule

This document defines the DATAGRAM (0x00) Capsule Type. This Capsule allows HTTP Datagrams
to be sent on a stream using the Capsule Protocol. This is particularly useful when HTTP is
running over a transport that does not support the QUIC DATAGRAM frame.

Datagram Capsule {
  Type (i) = 0x00,
  Length (i),
  HTTP Datagram Payload (..),
}

Figure 4: DATAGRAM Capsule Format

HTTP Datagram Payload:

The payload of the datagram, whose semantics are defined by the

extension that is using HTTP Datagrams. Note that this field can be empty.

HTTP Datagrams sent using the DATAGRAM Capsule have the same semantics as those sent in
QUIC DATAGRAM frames. In particular, the restrictions on when it is allowed to send an HTTP
Datagram and how to process them (from Section 2.1) also apply to HTTP Datagrams sent and
received using the DATAGRAM Capsule.

MAY

An intermediary can re-encode HTTP Datagrams as it forwards them. In other words, an
 send a DATAGRAM Capsule to forward an HTTP Datagram that was received
intermediary
 perform this re-encoding
in a QUIC DATAGRAM frame and vice versa. Intermediaries
unless they have identified the use of the Capsule Protocol on the corresponding request stream;
see Section 3.2.

MUST NOT

Note that while DATAGRAM Capsules, which are sent on a stream, are reliably delivered in order,
intermediaries can re-encode DATAGRAM Capsules into QUIC DATAGRAM frames when
forwarding messages, which could result in loss or reordering.

Schinazi & Pardue

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9297

HTTP Datagrams

August 2022

If an intermediary receives an HTTP Datagram in a QUIC DATAGRAM frame and is forwarding it
on a connection that supports QUIC DATAGRAM frames, the intermediary
that HTTP Datagram to a DATAGRAM Capsule. If the HTTP Datagram is too large to fit in a
DATAGRAM frame (for example, because the Path MTU (PMTU) of that QUIC connection is too
low or if the maximum UDP payload size advertised on that connection is too low), the
intermediary
This preserves the end-to-end unreliability characteristic that methods such as Datagram
. An intermediary
Packetization Layer PMTU Discovery (DPLPMTUD) depend on
that converts QUIC DATAGRAM frames to DATAGRAM Capsules allows HTTP Datagrams to be
arbitrarily large without suffering any loss. This can misrepresent the true path properties,
defeating methods such as DPLPMTUD.

 drop the HTTP Datagram instead of converting it to a DATAGRAM Capsule.

[DPLPMTUD]

SHOULD NOT

 convert

SHOULD

While DATAGRAM Capsules can theoretically carry a payload of length 262-1, most HTTP
extensions that use HTTP Datagrams will have their own limits on what datagram payload sizes
are practical. Implementations
 take those limits into account when parsing DATAGRAM
Capsules. If an incoming DATAGRAM Capsule has a length that is known to be so large as to not
be usable, the implementation
 discard the Capsule without buffering its contents into
memory.

SHOULD

SHOULD

Since QUIC DATAGRAM frames are required to fit within a QUIC packet, implementations that re-
encode DATAGRAM Capsules into QUIC DATAGRAM frames might be tempted to accumulate the
entire Capsule in the stream before re-encoding it. This
flow control problems; see Section 3.2.

 be avoided, because it can cause

SHOULD

Note that it is possible for an HTTP extension to use HTTP Datagrams without using the Capsule
Protocol. For example, if an HTTP extension that uses HTTP Datagrams is only defined over
transports that support QUIC DATAGRAM frames, it might not need a stream encoding.
Additionally, HTTP extensions can use HTTP Datagrams with their own data stream protocol.
However, new HTTP extensions that wish to use HTTP Datagrams
Protocol, as failing to do so will make it harder for the HTTP extension to support versions of
HTTP other than HTTP/3 and will prevent interoperability with intermediaries that only support
the Capsule Protocol.

 use the Capsule

SHOULD

4.  Security Considerations

Since transmitting HTTP Datagrams using QUIC DATAGRAM frames requires sending the HTTP/3
SETTINGS_H3_DATAGRAM setting, it "sticks out". In other words, probing clients can learn
whether a server supports HTTP Datagrams over QUIC DATAGRAM frames. As some servers
might wish to obfuscate the fact that they offer application services that use HTTP Datagrams, it's
best for all implementations that support this feature to always send this setting; see Section
2.1.1.

Since use of the Capsule Protocol is restricted to new HTTP upgrade tokens, it is not directly
accessible from Web Platform APIs (such as those commonly accessed via JavaScript in web
browsers).

Schinazi & Pardue

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9297

HTTP Datagrams

August 2022

Definitions of new HTTP upgrade tokens that use the Capsule Protocol need to include a security
analysis that considers the impact of HTTP Datagrams and Capsules in the context of their
protocol.

5.  IANA Considerations

5.1.  HTTP/3 Setting

IANA has registered the following entry in the "HTTP/3 Settings" registry maintained at <
www.iana.org/assignments/http3-parameters

>:

https://

Value:

0x33

Setting Name:

SETTINGS_H3_DATAGRAM

Default:

0

Status:

permanent

Reference:

RFC 9297

Change Controller:

IETF

Contact:

HTTP_WG; HTTP working group; ietf-http-wg@w3.org

Notes:

None

5.2.  HTTP/3 Error Code

IANA has registered the following entry in the "HTTP/3 Error Codes" registry maintained at
<

https://www.iana.org/assignments/http3-parameters

>:

Value:

0x33

Name:

H3_DATAGRAM_ERROR

Description:

Datagram or Capsule Protocol parse error

Status:

permanent

Reference:

RFC 9297

Change Controller:

IETF

Contact:

HTTP_WG; HTTP working group; ietf-http-wg@w3.org

Notes:

None

Schinazi & Pardue

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9297

HTTP Datagrams

August 2022

5.3.  HTTP Header Field Name

IANA has registered the following entry in the "Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) Field Name
https://www.iana.org/assignments/http-fields
Registry" maintained at <

>:

Field Name:

Capsule-Protocol

Template:

None

Status:

permanent

Reference:

RFC 9297

Comments:

None

5.4.  Capsule Types

This document establishes a registry for HTTP Capsule Type codes. The "HTTP Capsule Types"
registry governs a 62-bit space and operates under the QUIC registration policy documented in
Section 22.1 of [QUIC]
of [QUIC]
. In addition to those common fields, all registrations in this registry
"Capsule Type" field that contains a short name or label for the Capsule Type.

. This new registry includes the common set of fields listed in
MUST

Section 22.1.1
 include a

Permanent registrations in this registry are assigned using the Specification Required policy
Section 4.6 of [IANA-POLICY]
(
inclusive), which are assigned using Standards Action or IESG Approval as defined in Sections 4.9
and 4.10 of

), except for values between 0x00 and 0x3f (in hexadecimal;

[IANA-POLICY]
.

Capsule Types with a value of the form 0x29 * N + 0x17 for integer values of N are reserved to
exercise the requirement that unknown Capsule Types be ignored. These Capsules have no
 be assigned by IANA and
semantics and can carry arbitrary values. These values
NOT

 appear in the listing of assigned values.

MUST NOT

MUST

This registry initially contains the following entry:

Value:

0x00

Capsule Type:

DATAGRAM

Status:

permanent

Reference:

RFC 9297

Change Controller:

IETF

Contact:

MASQUE Working Group masque@ietf.org

Schinazi & Pardue

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9297

HTTP Datagrams

August 2022

Notes: None

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

[HTTP]

[HTTP/1.1]

[HTTP/2]

[HTTP/3]

[IANA-POLICY]

[QUIC]

[QUIC-DGRAM]

[RFC2119]

[RFC8174]

,

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
97 RFC 9110 DOI 10.17487/RFC9110
rfc9110>

,

,

.

, and
, June 2022,

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP Semantics" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

,

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
9112 DOI 10.17487/RFC9112
,
rfc9112>

.

, June 2022,

, and

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP/1.1" STD 99 RFC

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

Thomson, M., Ed.
RFC9113

, June 2022,

 and

C. Benfield, Ed. "HTTP/2" RFC 9113 DOI 10.17487/
,

,

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9113>

.

Bishop, M., Ed. "HTTP/3" RFC 9114 DOI 10.17487/RFC9114
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9114>

,

,

,

.

, June 2022,

<https://

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,

,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

.

,

,

,

, June

Iyengar, J., Ed.
Secure Transport" RFC 9000 DOI 10.17487/RFC9000
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9000>

 and
,

,

,

.

M. Thomson, Ed. "QUIC: A UDP-Based Multiplexed and

, May 2021,

<https://

,

Pauly, T. Kinnear, E.

,
QUIC" RFC 9221 DOI 10.17487/RFC9221
editor.org/info/rfc9221>

, and

,

,

.

D. Schinazi "An Unreliable Datagram Extension to

, March 2022,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

[STRUCTURED-FIELDS]

Nottingham, M.
,

RFC 8941 DOI 10.17487/RFC8941
info/rfc8941>

.

 and

P-H. Kamp "Structured Field Values for HTTP"
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

,
, February 2021,

[TCP]

Eddy, W., Ed. "Transmission Control Protocol (TCP)" STD 7 RFC 9293 DOI
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9293>
10.17487/RFC9293
.

, August 2022,

,

,

,

6.2.  Informative References

Schinazi & Pardue

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9297

HTTP Datagrams

August 2022

[DPLPMTUD]

,

Fairhurst, G. Jones, T. Tüxen, M. Rüngeler, I.
,
Layer Path MTU Discovery for Datagram Transports" RFC 8899 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8899

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8899>

T. Völker "Packetization

, September 2020,

, and

,

,

.

,

,

[EXT-CONNECT2]

McManus, P. "Bootstrapping WebSockets with HTTP/2" RFC 8441 DOI

,

,

, September 2018,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8441>

.

[EXT-CONNECT3]

Hamilton, R. "Bootstrapping WebSockets with HTTP/3" RFC 9220 DOI

,

,

, June 2022,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9220>

.

,
10.17487/RFC8441

,
10.17487/RFC9220

[PRIORITY]

[WEBSOCKET]

 and

Oku, K.
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC9218
, June 2022,

L. Pardue "Extensible Prioritization Scheme for HTTP" RFC 9218
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9218>

,

,

Fette, I.
RFC6455

,
 and
, December 2011,

A. Melnikov "The WebSocket Protocol" RFC 6455 DOI 10.17487/

,

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6455>

.

Acknowledgments

 for suggesting the use of an HTTP/3 setting. Furthermore, the authors would

Portions of this document were previously part of the QUIC DATAGRAM frame definition itself;
the authors would like to acknowledge the authors of that document and the members of the
IETF MASQUE working group for their suggestions. Additionally, the authors would like to thank
Martin Thomson
like to thank
 for substantive input. The final design in this document came out of
the HTTP Datagrams Design Team, whose members were
,
Ben Schwartz Eric Rescorla Marcus Ihlar Martin Thomson Mike Bishop Tommy Pauly Victor
,
Vasiliev
Tiesel

, and the authors of this document. The authors thank

Alan Frindell Alex Chernyakhovsky

 for their helpful comments.

Mark Nottingham

,
Philipp

Ben Schwartz

 and

,

,

,

,

,

Authors' Addresses

David Schinazi
Google LLC
1600 Amphitheatre Parkway
Mountain View CA 94043
United States of America
Email:

,

 dschinazi.ietf@gmail.com

Lucas Pardue
Cloudflare
Email:

 lucaspardue.24.7@gmail.com

Schinazi & Pardue

Standards Track

Page 14

