Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9899
Standards Track
December 2025
2070-1721
O. Gonzalez de Dios
Telefonica

S. Barguil
Nokia

M. Boucadair
Orange

Q. Wu
Huawei

RFC 9899
Extensions to the YANG Data Model for Access
Control Lists (ACLs)

Abstract

RFC 8519 defines a YANG data model for Access Control Lists (ACLs). This document specifies a
set of extensions that fix many of the limitations of the ACL model as initially defined in RFC
8519. Specifically, it introduces augmentations to the ACL base model to enhance its functionality
and applicability.

This document also creates initial versions of IANA-maintained modules for ICMP types and
IPv6 extension headers.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9899
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Gonzalez de Dios, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9899

Enhanced ACLs

December 2025

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  Overall Structure of the Enhanced ACL Module

3.1.  Tree Structure

3.2.  Defined Sets

3.3.  IPv6 Extension Headers

3.4.  TCP Flags Handling

3.5.  Fragments Handling

3.6.  Payload-Based Filtering

3.7.  Match on MPLS Headers

3.8.  VLAN Filtering

3.9.  Instance Service Identifier (I-SID) Filtering

3.10. Additional Actions

4.  Enhanced ACL YANG Module

5.  Security Considerations

6.  IANA Considerations

6.1.  URI Registrations

6.2.  YANG Module Name Registrations

6.3.  Considerations for IANA-Maintained Modules

6.3.1.  ICMPv4 Types IANA Module

6.3.2.  ICMPv6 Types IANA Module

6.3.3.  IPv6 Extension Header Types IANA Module

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

3

4

5

5

9

10

10

11

11

11

12

12

12

12

34

35

35

36

36

36

37

38

39

39

40

Gonzalez de Dios, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9899

Enhanced ACLs

December 2025

Appendix A.  Problem Statement and Gap Analysis

A.1.  Suboptimal Configuration: Lack of Support for Lists of Prefixes

A.2.  Manageability: Impossibility of Using Aliases or Defined Sets

A.3.  Bind ACLs to Devices, Not Only Interfaces

A.4.  Partial or Lack of IPv4/IPv6 Fragment Handling

A.5.  Suboptimal TCP Flags Handling

A.6.  Rate-Limit Action

A.7.  Payload-Based Filtering

A.8.  Reuse the Content of ACLs Across Several Devices

A.9.  Match MPLS Headers

Appendix B.  Examples

B.1.  TCP Flags Handling

B.2.  Fragments Handling

B.3.  Pattern-Based Filtering

B.4.  VLAN Filtering

B.5.  I-SID Filtering

B.6.  Rate-Limit

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

42

42

44

45

45

45

45

45

46

46

46

46

47

50

50

51

52

53

54

[RFC8519]
 defines Access Control Lists (ACLs) as a user-ordered set of filtering rules. The model
targets the configuration of the filtering behavior of a device. However, the model structure, as
defined in
and specifies an enhanced ACL structure, introducing augmentations to the ACL base model
(Section 4). The motivation of such an enhanced ACL structure is discussed in detail in Appendix
A.

, suffers from a set of limitations. This document identifies these limitations

[RFC8519]

When managing ACLs, it is common for network operators to group match elements in
predefined sets. The consolidation into group matches allows for reducing the number of rules,
especially in large-scale networks. For example, if finding a match against 100 IP addresses (or

Gonzalez de Dios, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9899

Enhanced ACLs

December 2025

prefixes) is needed, a single rule will suffice rather than creating individual Access Control
Entries (ACEs) for each IP address (or prefix). In doing so, implementations would optimize the
performance of matching lists versus multiple rules matching.

The enhanced ACL structure (see "ietf-acl-enh" in Section 4) is also meant to facilitate the
management of network operators. Instead of entering the IP address or port number literals,
using user-named lists decouples the creation of the rule from the management of the sets.
Hence, it is possible to remove/add entries to the list without redefining the (parent) ACL rule.

[RFC8519]

. ACLs and defined sets may be defined at the network/administrative domain

In addition, the notion of ACL and defined sets is generalized so that it is not device specific as
per
level and associated to devices. This approach facilitates the reusability across multiple network
elements. For example, managing the IP prefix sets from a network level makes it easier to
maintain by the security groups.

Network operators maintain sets of IP prefixes that are related to each other, e.g., deny-lists or
accept-lists that are associated with those provided by a VPN customer. These lists are
maintained and manipulated by security expert teams of the network operators.

Note that ACLs are used locally in devices but are triggered by other tools such as DDoS
mitigation
network operation standpoint to support the means to easily map to the filtering rules conveyed
in messages triggered by these tools.

. Therefore, it is valuable from a

[RFC8955] [RFC8956]

 or BGP Flow Spec

[RFC9132]

The enhanced ACL module (Section 4) conforms to the Network Management Datastore
[RFC8342]
.
Architecture (NMDA) defined in

A set of examples to illustrate the use of the enhanced ACL module is provided in Appendix B.

This document also creates initial versions of IANA-maintained modules for ICMP types and
IPv6 extension headers. The design of the modules adheres to the recommendations in
4.30.2 of [YANG-GUIDELINES]
retrieved from the "YANG Parameters" registry group

. The latest version of these IANA-maintained modules can be

[IANA-YANG-PARAMETERS]
.

Section

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

The terminology for describing YANG modules is defined in
symbols in the tree diagrams is defined in

[RFC8340]
.

[RFC7950]

. The meaning of the

In addition to the terms defined in

[RFC8519]

, this document makes use of the following term:

Defined set:

Gonzalez de Dios, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9899

Enhanced ACLs

December 2025

Elements in a defined set typically share a logical purpose or function, such as IP addresses,
IP prefixes, port numbers, or ICMP types.

3.  Overall Structure of the Enhanced ACL Module

3.1.  Tree Structure

Figure 1 shows the full tree of the enhanced ACL module (Section 4):

Gonzalez de Dios, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9899

Enhanced ACLs

December 2025

module: ietf-acl-enh

  augment /acl:acls:
    +--rw defined-sets
       +---u defined-sets
  augment /acl:acls/acl:acl/acl:aces/acl:ace/acl:matches:
    +--rw (payload)?
    |  +--:(pattern)
    |     +--rw pattern {match-on-payload}?
    |        +---u payload-match
    +--rw (alias)?
    |  +--:(alias-name)
    |     +--rw alias-name*       alias-ref
    +--rw (mpls)?
       +--:(mpls-values)
          +--rw mpls-values {match-on-mpls}?
             +---u mpls-match-parameters-config
  augment /acl:acls/acl:acl/acl:aces/acl:ace/acl:matches/acl:l2:
    +--rw vlan-filter {match-on-vlan-filter}?
    |  +--rw frame-type?         string
    |  +--rw (vlan-type)?
    |     +--:(range)
    |     |  +--rw lower-vlan    uint16
    |     |  +--rw upper-vlan    uint16
    |     +--:(operator)
    |        +--rw operator?     packet-fields:operator
    |        +--rw vlan*         uint16
    +--rw isid-filter {match-on-isid-filter}?
       +--rw (isid-type)?
          +--:(range)
          |  +--rw lower-isid    uint16
          |  +--rw upper-isid    uint16
          +--:(operator)
             +--rw operator?     packet-fields:operator
             +--rw isid*         uint16
  augment /acl:acls/acl:acl/acl:aces/acl:ace/acl:matches/acl:l3
            /acl:ipv4/acl:ipv4:
    +--rw ipv4-fragment
    |  +---u fragment-fields
    +--rw source-ipv4-prefix-list?        ipv4-prefix-set-ref
    +--rw destination-ipv4-prefix-list?   ipv4-prefix-set-ref
    +--rw protocol-set?                   protocol-set-ref
  augment /acl:acls/acl:acl/acl:aces/acl:ace/acl:matches/acl:l3
            /acl:ipv6/acl:ipv6:
    +--rw ipv6-fragment
    |  +---u fragment-fields
    +--rw source-ipv6-prefix-list?        ipv6-prefix-set-ref
    +--rw destination-ipv6-prefix-list?   ipv6-prefix-set-ref
    +--rw protocol-set?                   protocol-set-ref
    +--rw extension-header?
            iana-ipv6-ext-types:ipv6-extension-header-type
  augment /acl:acls/acl:acl/acl:aces/acl:ace/acl:matches/acl:l4
            /acl:tcp/acl:tcp:
    +--rw flags-bitmask
    |  +---u tcp-flags
    +--rw source-tcp-port-set?        port-set-ref
    +--rw destination-tcp-port-set?   port-set-ref

Gonzalez de Dios, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9899

Enhanced ACLs

December 2025

  augment /acl:acls/acl:acl/acl:aces/acl:ace/acl:matches/acl:l4
            /acl:udp/acl:udp:
    +--rw source-udp-port-set?        port-set-ref
    +--rw destination-udp-port-set?   port-set-ref
  augment /acl:acls/acl:acl/acl:aces/acl:ace/acl:matches/acl:l4
            /acl:icmp/acl:icmp:
    +--rw icmpv4-set?   icmpv4-type-set-ref
    +--rw icmpv6-set?   icmpv6-type-set-ref
  augment /acl:acls/acl:acl/acl:aces/acl:ace/acl:actions:
    +---u acl-complementary-actions
    +--rw rate-limit?                  decimal64

Figure 1: Enhanced ACL Tree Structure

Figure 2 shows the reusable groupings that are defined in the enhanced ACL module:

Gonzalez de Dios, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9899

Enhanced ACLs

December 2025

  grouping tcp-flags:
    +--rw operator?                  operator
    +-- (mode)?
       +--:(explicit)
       |  +-- explicit-tcp-flag*   identityref
       +--:(builtin)
          +-- bitmask?             uint16
  grouping fragment-fields:
    +-- operator?   operator
    +-- type?       fragment-type
  grouping mpls-match-parameters-config:
    +-- traffic-class?       uint8
    +-- label-position?      identityref
    +-- upper-label-range?   rt-types:mpls-label
    +-- lower-label-range?   rt-types:mpls-label
    +-- label-block-name?    string
    +-- ttl-value?           uint8
  grouping payload-match:
    +-- offset?       identityref
    +-- length?   uint16
    +-- operator?     operator
    +-- pattern?       binary
  grouping alias:
    +-- vlan*         uint16
    +-- prefix*       inet:ip-prefix
    +-- port-range* [lower-port]
    |  +-- lower-port    inet:port-number
    |  +-- upper-port?   inet:port-number
    +-- protocol*     uint8
    +-- fqdn*         inet:domain-name
    +-- uri*          inet:uri
  grouping icmpv4-header-fields:
    +-- type?             iana-icmpv4-types:icmpv4-type
    +-- code?             uint8
    +-- rest-of-header?   binary
  grouping icmpv6-header-fields:
    +-- type?             iana-icmpv6-types:icmpv6-type
    +-- code?             uint8
    +-- rest-of-header?   binary
  grouping acl-complementary-actions:
    +-- log-action
    |  +-- log-type?   identityref
    |  +-- log-id?     string
    +-- counter-action
       +-- counter-type?   identityref
       +-- counter-name*   string
  grouping ipv4-prefix-sets:
    +-- prefix-set* [name]
       +-- name           string
       +-- description?   string
       +-- prefix*        inet:ipv4-prefix
  grouping ipv6-prefix-sets:
    +-- prefix-set* [name]
       +-- name           string
       +-- description?   string
       +-- prefix*        inet:ipv6-prefix
  grouping port-sets:

Gonzalez de Dios, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9899

Enhanced ACLs

December 2025

    +-- port-set* [name]
       +-- name    string
       +-- port* [id]
          +-- id                              string
          +-- (port)?
             +--:(port-range-or-operator)
                +-- port-range-or-operator
                   +---u packet-fields:port-range-or-operator
  grouping protocol-sets:
    +-- protocol-set* [name]
       +-- name        string
       +-- protocol*   union
  grouping icmpv4-type-sets:
    +-- set* [name]
       +-- name           string
       +-- icmpv4-type* [type]
          +---u icmpv4-header-fields
  grouping icmpv6-type-sets:
    +-- set* [name]
       +-- name           string
       +-- icmpv6-type* [type]
          +---u icmpv6-header-fields
  grouping aliases:
    +-- alias* [name]
       +-- name     string
       +---u alias
  grouping defined-sets:
    +-- ipv4-prefix-sets
    |  +---u ipv4-prefix-sets
    +-- ipv6-prefix-sets
    |  +---u ipv6-prefix-sets
    +-- port-sets
    |  +---u port-sets
    +-- protocol-sets
    |  +---u protocol-sets
    +-- icmpv4-type-sets
    |  +---u icmpv4-type-sets
    +-- icmpv6-type-sets
    |  +---u icmpv6-type-sets
    +-- aliases
       +---u aliases

Figure 2: Enhanced ACL Groupings

3.2.  Defined Sets

The augmented ACL structure includes several containers to manage reusable sets of elements
that can be matched in an ACL entry. Each set is uniquely identified by a name and can be called
from the relevant entry. The following sets (seen in Figure 1) are defined:

IPv4 prefix sets:

An IPv4 prefix set contains a list of IPv4 prefixes. A match will be considered if

the IP address (source or destination, depending on the ACL entry) is contained in any of the
prefixes in the set.

Gonzalez de Dios, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9899

Enhanced ACLs

December 2025

IPv6 prefix sets:

An IPv6 prefix contains a list of IPv6 prefixes. A match will be considered if the

IP address (source or destination, depending on the ACL entry) is contained in any of the
prefixes in the set.

Port sets:

A port set contains a list of port numbers to be used in transport protocol entries (e.g.,

TCP and UDP).

A port number can be a port range or a single port number along with an operator (equal to,
greater than or equal to, etc.).

Protocol sets:

A protocol set contains a list of protocol values. A protocol can be identified by

either a number (e.g., 17) or a name (e.g., UDP).

ICMP sets:

An ICMP set contains a list of ICMPv4

[RFC0792]

 or ICMPv6

[RFC4443]

 types, and

each type is identified by a type value and is optionally identified by the code and the rest of
the header.

IANA-maintained modules for ICMP types are created in this document.

Aliases:

An alias is defined by a combination of various parameters (e.g., IP prefix, protocol,

port number, or VLAN
handled, then the relevant parameter sets should be used (e.g., protocol set) rather than an
alias.

). When only sets of one parameter (e.g., protocol) are

[IEEE802.1Qcp]

For example, an alias can be defined to apply ACL policies bound to a set of HTTPS servers.
Such an alias will typically include these HTTPS server addresses (e.g., "prefix":
["2001:db8:6401::1/128","2001:db8:6401::2/128"]) and the TCP port number 443 (i.e.,
"protocol": [6] and "lower-port": 443).

Sets of aliases can be defined and referred to in ACL match criteria.

Payload-based filtering:

A network traffic filtering technique that examines the data payload of

packets, beyond just the header information, to identify, allow, or block traffic based on
specific content or patterns within the payload. An offset type (e.g., Layer 2 or Layer 3) is used
to indicate the position of the data in the packet to use for the match.

3.3.  IPv6 Extension Headers

The enhanced ACL module can be used to manage ACLs that require matching against IPv6
extension headers
header types, "iana-ipv6-ext-types", is created in this document.

. To that aim, a new IANA-maintained module for IPv6 extension

[RFC8200]

3.4.  TCP Flags Handling

The augmented ACL module includes a new container 'flags-bitmask' to better handle TCP flags
). Assigned TCP flags are maintained in the "TCP Header Flags" registry
Section 3.1 of [RFC9293]
(
[IANA-TCP-FLAGS]
.
under the "Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) Parameters" registry group

Gonzalez de Dios, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9899

Enhanced ACLs

December 2025

Clients that support both 'flags-bitmask' and 'flags'
fields in the same request.

[RFC8519]

 matching fields

MUST NOT

 set these

3.5.  Fragments Handling

The augmented ACL module includes new leafs 'ipv4-fragment' and 'ipv6-fragment' to better
handle fragments.

Clients that support both 'ipv4-fragment' and 'flags'
these fields in the same request.

[RFC8519]

 matching fields

MUST NOT

 set

3.6.  Payload-Based Filtering

Some transport protocols use existing protocols (e.g., TCP or UDP) as substrate. The match
criteria for such protocols may rely upon the 'protocol' under 'l3', TCP/UDP match criteria, part
of the TCP/UDP payload, or a combination thereof.

A new feature, called 'match-on-payload', is defined in the document. This can be used, for
example, for QUIC
offset, a length, and a binary pattern to match data against using a specified operator. The data
offset indicates the position to look at in a packet (e.g., it starts at the beginning of the IP header
or transport header).

 or for tunneling protocols. This feature requires configuring a data

[RFC9000]

3.7.  Match on MPLS Headers

The enhanced ACL module (Section 4) can be used to create rules to match against the MPLS
fields of a packet. The MPLS header defined in
fields:

 contains the following

[RFC5462]

[RFC3032]

 and

•

Traffic Class: The 3-bit "Exp" field
[RFC5462]
.
field")

[RFC3032]

, which is renamed to "Traffic Class field" ("TC

•

Label Value: A 20-bit field that carries the actual value of the MPLS label.

•

TTL: An 8-bit field used to encode the Time-to-Live (TTL) value.

The augmented ACL module can be used by an operator to configure ACLs that match based
upon the following data nodes:

•

'traffic-class'

•

'label-position' (e.g., top or bottom)

•

'upper-label-range'

•

'lower-label-range'

•

'label-block-name'

•

'ttl-value'

Gonzalez de Dios, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9899

Enhanced ACLs

December 2025

3.8.  VLAN Filtering

Being able to filter all packets that are bridged within a VLAN or that are routed into or out of a
bridge domain is part of the VPN control requirements for Ethernet VPN (EVPN)

[RFC7209]
.

All packets that are bridged within a VLAN or that are routed into or out of a VLAN can be
captured, forwarded, translated, or discarded based on the network policy.

3.9.  Instance Service Identifier (I-SID) Filtering

Provider Backbone Bridging (PBB) was originally defined as a Virtual Bridged Local Area
Networks standard
Media Access Control (MAC) layer of the customer frame and separates it from the provider
domain, by encapsulating it in a 24-bit Instance Service Identifier (I-SID). This provides more
transparency between the customer network and the provider network.

. However, instead of multiplexing VLANs, PBB duplicates the

[IEEE-802-1ah]

The I-component forms the customer- or access-facing interface or routing instance. The I-
component is responsible for mapping customer Ethernet traffic to the appropriate I-SID. It is
mandatory to configure the default service identifier in the network.

Being able to filter by I-component service identifier is a feature of the EVPN-PBB configuration.

3.10.  Additional Actions

In order to support rate-limiting (see Appendix A.6), a new action called 'rate-limit' is defined in
this document.

Also, the "ietf-acl-enh" module supports new actions to complement existing ones: log ('log-
action') and write a counter ('counter-action'). The version of the module defined in this
document supports only local actions.

4.  Enhanced ACL YANG Module

This YANG module imports types from

[RFC6991] [RFC8519]
,

, and

[RFC8294]
.

<CODE BEGINS> file "ietf-acl-enh@2025-12-22.yang"

module ietf-acl-enh {
  yang-version 1.1;
  namespace "urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-acl-enh";
  prefix acl-enh;

  import ietf-inet-types {
    prefix inet;
    reference
      "RFC 6991: Common YANG Data Types";
  }
  import ietf-netconf-acm {
    prefix nacm;

Gonzalez de Dios, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9899

Enhanced ACLs

December 2025

    reference
      "RFC 8341: Network Configuration Access Control Model";
  }
  import ietf-access-control-list {
    prefix acl;
    reference
      "RFC 8519: YANG Data Model for Network Access
                 Control Lists (ACLs), Section 4.1";
  }
  import ietf-packet-fields {
    prefix packet-fields;
    reference
      "RFC 8519: YANG Data Model for Network Access
                 Control Lists (ACLs), Section 4.2";
  }
  import ietf-routing-types {
    prefix rt-types;
    reference
      "RFC 8294: Common YANG Data Types for the Routing Area";
  }
  import iana-icmpv4-types {
    prefix iana-icmpv4-types;
    reference
      "RFC 9899: Extensions to the YANG Data Model for Access
                 Control Lists (ACLs)";
  }
  import iana-icmpv6-types {
    prefix iana-icmpv6-types;
    reference
      "RFC 9899: Extensions to the YANG Data Model for Access
                 Control Lists (ACLs)";
  }
  import iana-ipv6-ext-types {
    prefix iana-ipv6-ext-types;
    reference
      "RFC 9899: Extensions to the YANG Data Model for Access
                 Control Lists (ACLs)";
  }

  organization
    "IETF NETMOD Working Group";
  contact
    "WG Web:   <https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/netmod/>
     WG List:  <mailto:netmod@ietf.org>

     Author:   Mohamed Boucadair
               <mailto:mohamed.boucadair@orange.com>
     Author:   Samier Barguil
               <mailto:samier.barguil_giraldo@nokia.com>
     Author:   Oscar Gonzalez de Dios
               <mailto:oscar.gonzalezdedios@telefonica.com>";
  description

    "This module contains YANG definitions for enhanced ACLs.

     Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as
     authors of the code.  All rights reserved.

Gonzalez de Dios, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9899

Enhanced ACLs

December 2025

     Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or
     without modification, is permitted pursuant to, and subject to
     the license terms contained in, the Revised BSD License set
     forth in Section 4.c of the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions
     Relating to IETF Documents
     (https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info).

     This version of this YANG module is part of RFC 9899; see the
     RFC itself for full legal notices.";

  revision 2025-12-22 {
    description
      "Initial revision.";
    reference
      "RFC 9899: Extensions to the YANG Data Model for Access
                 Control Lists (ACLs)";
  }

  feature match-on-payload {
    description
      "Match based on a pattern is supported.";
  }

  feature match-on-vlan-filter {
    description
      "Match based on a VLAN range is supported.";
  }

  feature match-on-isid-filter {
    description
      "Match based on an I-SID range is supported.";
  }

  feature match-on-alias {
    description
      "Match based on aliases.";
  }

  feature match-on-mpls {
    description
      "Match based on MPLS headers.";
  }

  identity offset-type {
    description
      "Base identity for payload offset type.";
  }

  identity layer2 {
    base offset-type;
    description
      "The offset starts at the beginning of the Data Link Layer
       header.";
  }

  identity layer3 {
    base offset-type;
    description

Gonzalez de Dios, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9899

Enhanced ACLs

December 2025

      "The offset starts at the beginning of the IP header.";
  }

  identity layer4 {
    base offset-type;
    description
      "The offset starts right after the IP header (including
       any options or headers pertaining to that IP layer, e.g.,
       IPv6 Extension Headers and the Authentication Header (AH)).

       This can be typically the beginning of transport header
       (e.g., UDP, TCP, the Stream Control Transmission Protocol
       (SCTP), and the Datagram Congestion Control Protocol (DCCP))
       or any encapsulation scheme over IP such as IP-in-IP.";
  }

  identity payload {
    base offset-type;
    description
      "The offset starts right after the end of the transport
       header.  For example, this represents the beginning of the
       TCP data right after any TCP options or the beginning of
       the UDP payload right after the UDP header.

       This type may be used for matches against any data in
       the transport payload and/or any surplus area (if any,
       such as in UDP).";
  }

  identity tcp-flag {
    description
      "Base identity for the TCP Flags.";
    reference
      "RFC 9293: Transmission Control Protocol (TCP), Section 3.1";
  }

  identity ack {
    base tcp-flag;
    description
      "Acknowledgment TCP flag bit.";
    reference
      "RFC 9293: Transmission Control Protocol (TCP), Section 3.1";
  }

  identity syn {
    base tcp-flag;
    description
      "Synchronize sequence numbers.";
    reference
      "RFC 9293: Transmission Control Protocol (TCP), Section 3.1";
  }

  identity fin {
    base tcp-flag;
    description
      "No more data from the sender.";
    reference
      "RFC 9293: Transmission Control Protocol (TCP), Section 3.1";

Gonzalez de Dios, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9899

  }

Enhanced ACLs

December 2025

  identity urg {
    base tcp-flag;
    description
      "Urgent pointer TCP flag bit.";
    reference
      "RFC 9293: Transmission Control Protocol (TCP), Section 3.1";
  }

  identity psh {
    base tcp-flag;
    description
      "The Push function flag is similar to the URG flag and tells
       the receiver to process these packets as they are received
       instead of buffering them.";
    reference
      "RFC 9293: Transmission Control Protocol (TCP), Section 3.1";
  }

  identity rst {
    base tcp-flag;
    description
      "Reset TCP flag bit.";
    reference
      "RFC 9293: Transmission Control Protocol (TCP), Section 3.1";
  }

  identity ece {
    base tcp-flag;
    description
      "ECN-Echo TCP flag bit.";
    reference
      "RFC 9293: Transmission Control Protocol (TCP), Section 3.1";
  }

  identity cwr {
    base tcp-flag;
    description
      "Congestion Window Reduced flag bit.";
    reference
      "RFC 9293: Transmission Control Protocol (TCP), Section 3.1";
  }

  identity ae {
    base tcp-flag;
    description
      "Accurate Explicit Congestion Notification (ECN).

       Previously used as Nonce Sum (NS), which is now
       historic.";
  }

  identity mpls-acl-type {
    base acl:acl-base;
    description
      "An ACL that matches on fields from the MPLS header.";
  }

Gonzalez de Dios, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9899

Enhanced ACLs

December 2025

  identity label-position {
    description
      "Base identity for deriving MPLS label position.";
  }

  identity top {
    base label-position;
    description
      "Top of the label stack.";
  }

  identity bottom {
    base label-position;
    description
      "Bottom of the label stack.";
  }

  identity log-types {
    description
      "Base identity for deriving the log actions.";
  }

  identity local-log {
    base log-types;
    description
      "A local log is used to record the ACL results.";
  }

  identity counter-type {
    description
      "Base identity for deriving the counter actions.";
  }

  identity counter-name {
    base counter-type;
    description
      "Identity for counter name to be updated based on
        the ACL match actions.";
  }

  typedef operator {
    type bits {
      bit not {
        position 0;
        description
          "If set, the logical negation of operation.";
      }
      bit match {
        position 1;
        description
          "Match bit.  This is a bitwise match operation defined as
           '(data & value) == value'.";
      }
      bit any {
        position 2;
        description
          "Any bit.  This is a match on any of the bits in bitmask.

Gonzalez de Dios, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9899

Enhanced ACLs

December 2025

           It evaluates to 'true' if any of the bits in the
           value mask are set in the data, i.e.,
           '(data & value) != 0'.";
      }
    }
    description
      "Specifies how to apply the defined bitmask.  The
       'any' and 'match' bits must not be set simultaneously.";
  }

  typedef fragment-type {
    type bits {
      bit df {
        position 0;
        description
          "Don't fragment bit for IPv4.  Must be set to 0 when it
           appears in an IPv6 filter.";
      }
      bit isf {
        position 1;
        description
          "Is a fragment.";
      }
      bit ff {
        position 2;
        description
          "First fragment.";
      }
      bit lf {
        position 3;
        description
          "Last fragment.";
      }
    }
    description
      "Different fragment types to match against.";
  }

  typedef ipv4-prefix-set-ref {
    type leafref {
      path "/acl:acls/acl-enh:defined-sets/acl-enh:ipv4-prefix-sets"
         + "/acl-enh:prefix-set/acl-enh:name";
    }
    description
      "Defines a reference to an IPv4 prefix set.";
  }

  typedef ipv6-prefix-set-ref {
    type leafref {
      path "/acl:acls/acl-enh:defined-sets/acl-enh:ipv6-prefix-sets"
         + "/acl-enh:prefix-set/acl-enh:name";
    }
    description
      "Defines a reference to an IPv6 prefix set.";
  }

  typedef port-set-ref {
    type leafref {

Gonzalez de Dios, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9899

Enhanced ACLs

December 2025

      path "/acl:acls/acl-enh:defined-sets/acl-enh:port-sets"
         + "/acl-enh:port-set/acl-enh:name";
    }
    description
      "Defines a reference to a port set.";
  }

  typedef protocol-set-ref {
    type leafref {
      path "/acl:acls/acl-enh:defined-sets/acl-enh:protocol-sets"
         + "/acl-enh:protocol-set/acl-enh:name";
    }
    description
      "Defines a reference to a protocol set.";
  }

  typedef icmpv4-type-set-ref {
    type leafref {
      path "/acl:acls/acl-enh:defined-sets/acl-enh:icmpv4-type-sets"
         + "/acl-enh:set/acl-enh:name";
    }
    description
      "Defines a reference to an ICMPv4 type set.";
  }

  typedef icmpv6-type-set-ref {
    type leafref {
      path "/acl:acls/acl-enh:defined-sets/acl-enh:icmpv6-type-sets"
         + "/acl-enh:set/acl-enh:name";
    }
    description
      "Defines a reference to an ICMPv6 type set.";
  }

  typedef alias-ref {
    type leafref {
      path "/acl:acls/acl-enh:defined-sets/acl-enh:aliases"
         + "/acl-enh:alias/acl-enh:name";
    }
    description
      "Defines a reference to an alias.";
  }

  grouping tcp-flags {
    description
      "Operations on TCP flags.";
    leaf operator {
      type operator;
      description
        "How to interpret the TCP flags.";
    }
    choice mode {
      description
        "Choice of how flags are indicated.";
      case explicit {
        leaf-list explicit-tcp-flag {
          type identityref {
            base acl-enh:tcp-flag;

Gonzalez de Dios, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9899

Enhanced ACLs

December 2025

          }
          description
            "An explicit list of the TCP flags that are to be
             matched.";
        }
      }
      case builtin {
        leaf bitmask {
          type uint16;
          description
            "The bitmask matches the last 4 bits of byte 13
             and byte 14 of the TCP header.
             For clarity, the 4 bits of byte 12
             corresponding to the TCP data offset field are not
             included in any matching.  Assigned TCP flags
             and their position are maintained in the IANA
             'Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) Parameters'
             registry group.";
          reference
            "RFC 9293: Transmission Control Protocol (TCP),
                       Section 3.1
             IANA: Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) Parameters,
             <https://www.iana.org/assignments/tcp-parameters>";
        }
      }
    }
  }

  grouping fragment-fields {
    description
      "Operations on fragment types.";
    leaf operator {
      type operator;
      default "match";
      description
        "How to interpret the fragment type.";
    }
    leaf type {
      type fragment-type;
      description
        "Specifies what fragment type to look for.";
    }
  }

  grouping mpls-match-parameters-config {
    description
      "Parameters for the configuration of MPLS match rules.";
    leaf traffic-class {
      type uint8 {
        range "0..7";
      }
      description
        "The value of the MPLS Traffic Class (TC) bits,
         formerly known as the EXP bits.";
    }
    leaf label-position {
      type identityref {
        base acl-enh:label-position;

Gonzalez de Dios, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9899

Enhanced ACLs

December 2025

      }
      description
        "Position of the label.";
    }
    leaf upper-label-range {
      type rt-types:mpls-label;
      description
        "Match MPLS label value on the MPLS header.
         The usage of this field indicates the upper
         range value in the top of the stack.  This
         label value does not include the encodings
         of TC and Time-to-Live (TTL).";
      reference
        "RFC 3032: MPLS Label Stack Encoding";
    }
    leaf lower-label-range {
      type rt-types:mpls-label;
      description
        "Match MPLS label value on the MPLS header.
         The usage of this field indicates the lower
         range value in the top of the stack.
         This label value does not include the
         encodings of TC and TTL.";
      reference
        "RFC 3032: MPLS Label Stack Encoding";
    }
    leaf label-block-name {
      type string;
      description
        "Reference to a label block predefined in the
         implementation.";
    }
    leaf ttl-value {
      type uint8;
      description
        "TTL MPLS packet value match.";
      reference
        "RFC 3032: MPLS Label Stack Encoding";
    }
  }

  grouping payload-match {
    description
      "Operations on payload match.";
    leaf offset {
      type identityref {
        base acl-enh:offset-type;
      }
      description
        "Indicates the payload offset.  This will indicate
         the position of the data in the packet to use for
         the match.";
    }
    leaf length {
      type uint16;
      units "bytes";
      description
        "Indicates the number of bytes to ignore, starting from

Gonzalez de Dios, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9899

Enhanced ACLs

December 2025

         the offset, to perform the pattern match.";
    }
    leaf operator {
      type operator;
      default "match";
      description
        "How to interpret the pattern match.";
    }
    leaf pattern {
      type binary;
      description
        "The binary pattern to match against starting.
         The match starts from the byte indicated by
         'offset' + length'.";
    }
  }

  grouping alias {
    description
      "Specifies an alias.";
    leaf-list vlan {
      type uint16;
      description
        "VLAN of the alias.";
      reference
        "IEEE Std 802.1Q: Bridges and Bridged Networks";
    }
    leaf-list prefix {
      type inet:ip-prefix;
      description
        "IPv4 or IPv6 prefix of the alias.";
    }
    list port-range {
      key "lower-port";
      description
        "Port range.  When only lower-port is
         present, it represents a single port number.";
      leaf lower-port {
        type inet:port-number;
        mandatory true;
        description
          "Lower port number of the port range.";
      }
      leaf upper-port {
        type inet:port-number;
        must '. >= ../lower-port' {
          error-message
            "The upper-port number must be greater than
             or equal to the lower-port number.";
        }
        description
          "Upper port number of the port range.";
      }
    }
    leaf-list protocol {
      type uint8;
      description
        "Identifies the target protocol number.

Gonzalez de Dios, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9899

Enhanced ACLs

December 2025

         For example, 6 for TCP or 17 for UDP.";
    }
    leaf-list fqdn {
      type inet:domain-name;
      description
        "Fully Qualified Domain Name (FQDN) identifying the target.";
    }
    leaf-list uri {
      type inet:uri;
      description
        "URI identifying the target.";
    }
  }

  grouping icmpv4-header-fields {
    description
      "Collection of ICMPv4 header fields that can be
       used to set up a match filter.";
    leaf type {
      type iana-icmpv4-types:icmpv4-type;
      description
        "Also known as control messages.";
      reference
        "RFC 792: Internet Control Message Protocol.";
    }
    leaf code {
      type uint8;
      description
        "ICMP subtype.";
      reference
        "RFC 792: Internet Control Message Protocol.";
    }
    leaf rest-of-header {
      type binary;
      description
        "Unbounded in length, the contents vary based on the
         ICMP type and code.";
      reference
        "RFC 792: Internet Control Message Protocol";
    }
  }

  grouping icmpv6-header-fields {
    description
      "Collection of ICMPv6 header fields that can be
       used to set up a match filter.";
    leaf type {
      type iana-icmpv6-types:icmpv6-type;
      description
        "Also known as control messages.";
      reference
        "RFC 4443: Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMPv6)
                   for Internet Protocol Version 6 (IPv6)
                   Specification.";
    }
    leaf code {
      type uint8;
      description

Gonzalez de Dios, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9899

Enhanced ACLs

December 2025

        "ICMP code.";
      reference
        "RFC 4443: Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMPv6)
                   for Internet Protocol Version 6 (IPv6)
                   Specification.";
    }
    leaf rest-of-header {
      type binary;
      description
        "Unbounded in length, the contents vary based on the
         ICMP type and code.  Also referred to as 'Message Body'
         in ICMPv6.";
      reference
        "RFC 4443: Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMPv6)
                   for Internet Protocol Version 6 (IPv6)
                   Specification.";
    }
  }

  grouping acl-complementary-actions {
    description
      "Collection of complementary ACL actions.";
    container log-action {
      description
        "Container for defining log actions.";
      leaf log-type {
        type identityref {
          base acl-enh:log-types;
        }
        description
          "The type of log action to be performed.";
      }
      leaf log-id {
        when "derived-from-or-self(../log-type, "
           + "'acl-enh:local-log')" {
          description
            "Name of the log file updated when type is 'local-log'.";
        }
        type string;
        description
          "The name of the counter action.";
      }
    }
    container counter-action {
      description
        "Container for defining counter actions.";
      leaf counter-type {
        type identityref {
          base acl-enh:counter-type;
        }
        description
          "The type of counter action to be performed.";
      }
      leaf-list counter-name {
        when "derived-from-or-self(../counter-type, "
           + "'acl-enh:counter-name')" {
          description
            "Name for the counter or variable to update when

Gonzalez de Dios, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9899

Enhanced ACLs

December 2025

             'counter-type' is 'counter-name'.";
        }
        type string;
        description
          "List of possible variables or counter names to
           update based on match criteria.";
      }
    }
  }

  grouping ipv4-prefix-sets {
    description
      "Data definitions for a list of IPv4 prefixes,
       which are matched as part of a policy.";
    list prefix-set {
      key "name";
      description
        "List of the defined prefix sets.";
      leaf name {
        type string;
        description
          "Name of the prefix set -- this is used as a label to
           reference the set in match conditions.";
      }
      leaf description {
        type string;
        description
          "Defined set description.";
      }
      leaf-list prefix {
        type inet:ipv4-prefix;
        description
          "List of IPv4 prefixes to be used in match
           conditions.";
      }
    }
  }

  grouping ipv6-prefix-sets {
    description
      "Data definitions for a list of IPv6 prefixes, which are
       matched as part of a policy.";
    list prefix-set {
      key "name";
      description
        "List of the defined prefix sets.";
      leaf name {
        type string;
        description
          "Name of the prefix set -- this is used as a label to
           reference the set in match conditions.";
      }
      leaf description {
        type string;
        description
          "A textual description of the prefix list.";
      }
      leaf-list prefix {

Gonzalez de Dios, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9899

Enhanced ACLs

December 2025

        type inet:ipv6-prefix;
        description
          "List of IPv6 prefixes to be used in match conditions.";
      }
    }
  }

  grouping port-sets {
    description
      "Data definitions for a list of ports, which can
       be matched in policies.";
    list port-set {
      key "name";
      description
        "List of port set definitions.";
      leaf name {
        type string;
        description
          "Name of the port set -- this is used as a label to
           reference the set in match conditions.";
      }
      list port {
        key "id";
        description
          "Port numbers along with the operator on which to
           match.";
        leaf id {
          type string;
          description
            "Identifier of the list of port numbers.";
        }
        choice port {
          description
            "Choice of specifying the port number or referring to a
             group of port numbers.";
          container port-range-or-operator {
            description
              "Indicates a set of ports.";
            uses packet-fields:port-range-or-operator;
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }

  grouping protocol-sets {
    description
      "Data definitions for a list of protocols, which can be
       matched in policies.";
    list protocol-set {
      key "name";
      description
        "List of protocol set definitions.";
      leaf name {
        type string;
        description
          "Name of the protocols set -- this is used as a
           label to reference the set in match conditions.";

Gonzalez de Dios, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9899

Enhanced ACLs

December 2025

      }
      leaf-list protocol {
        type union {
          type uint8;
          type string;
        }
        description
          "Value of the protocol set.";
      }
    }
  }

  grouping icmpv4-type-sets {
    description
      "Data definitions for a list of ICMPv4 types, which can be
       matched in policies.";
    list set {
      key "name";
      description
        "List of ICMPv4 type set definitions.";
      leaf name {
        type string;
        description
          "Name of the ICMPv4 type set -- this is used as a label
           to reference the set in match conditions.";
      }
      list icmpv4-type {
        key "type";
        description
          "Includes a list of ICMPv4 types.";
        uses icmpv4-header-fields;
      }
    }
  }

  grouping icmpv6-type-sets {
    description
      "Data definitions for a list of ICMPv6 types, which can be
       matched in policies.";
    list set {
      key "name";
      description
        "List of ICMP type set definitions.";
      leaf name {
        type string;
        description
          "Name of the ICMPv6 type set -- this is used as a label
           to reference the set in match conditions.";
      }
      list icmpv6-type {
        key "type";
        description
          "Includes a list of ICMPv6 types.";
        uses icmpv6-header-fields;
      }
    }
  }

Gonzalez de Dios, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9899

Enhanced ACLs

December 2025

  grouping aliases {
    description
      "Grouping for a set of aliases.";
    list alias {
      key "name";
      description
        "List of aliases.";
      leaf name {
        type string;
        description
          "The name of the alias.";
      }
      uses alias;
    }
  }

  grouping defined-sets {
    description
      "Predefined sets of attributes used in policy match
       statements.";
    container ipv4-prefix-sets {
      description
        "Data definitions for a list of IPv4 or IPv6
         prefixes, which are matched as part of a policy.";
      uses ipv4-prefix-sets;
    }
    container ipv6-prefix-sets {
      description
        "Data definitions for a list of IPv6 prefixes, which are
         matched as part of a policy.";
      uses ipv6-prefix-sets;
    }
    container port-sets {
      description
        "Data definitions for a list of ports, which can
         be matched in policies.";
      uses port-sets;
    }
    container protocol-sets {
      description
        "Data definitions for a list of protocols, which can be
         matched in policies.";
      uses protocol-sets;
    }
    container icmpv4-type-sets {
      description
        "Data definitions for a list of ICMPv4 types, which can be
         matched in policies.";
      uses icmpv4-type-sets;
    }
    container icmpv6-type-sets {
      description
        "Data definitions for a list of ICMPv6 types, which can be
         matched in policies.";
      uses icmpv6-type-sets;
    }
    container aliases {
      description

Gonzalez de Dios, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 9899

Enhanced ACLs

December 2025

        "Top-level container for aliases.";
      uses aliases;
    }
  }

  augment "/acl:acls" {
    description
      "predefined sets.";
    container defined-sets {
      description
        "Predefined sets of attributes used in policy match
         statements.";
      uses defined-sets;
      nacm:default-deny-write;
    }
  }

  augment "/acl:acls/acl:acl/acl:aces/acl:ace"
        + "/acl:matches" {
    description
      "Adds a match type based on the payload.";
    choice payload {
      description
        "Matches based upon a prefix pattern.";
      container pattern {
        if-feature "match-on-payload";
        description
          "Indicates the rule to perform the payload-based match.";
        uses payload-match;
      }
    }
    choice alias {
      description
        "Matches based upon aliases.";
      leaf-list alias-name {
        type alias-ref;
        description
          "Indicates one or more aliases.";
      }
    }
    choice mpls {
      description
        "Matches against MPLS headers, for example, label
         values.";
      container mpls-values {
        if-feature "match-on-mpls";
        description
          "Provides the rule set that matches MPLS headers.";
        uses mpls-match-parameters-config;
      }
    }
  }

  augment "/acl:acls/acl:acl/acl:aces"
        + "/acl:ace/acl:matches/acl:l2" {
    description
      "Adds a match type based on MAC VLAN and I-SID filters.";
    container vlan-filter {

Gonzalez de Dios, et al.

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 9899

Enhanced ACLs

December 2025

      if-feature "match-on-vlan-filter";
      description
        "Indicates how to handle MAC VLANs.";
      leaf frame-type {
        type string;
        description
          "Entering the frame type allows the
           filter to match a specific type of frame format.";
      }
      choice vlan-type {
        description
          "VLAN definition from range or operator.";
        case range {
          leaf lower-vlan {
            type uint16;
            must '. <= ../upper-vlan' {
              error-message
                "The lower-vlan must be less than or equal to
                 the upper-vlan.";
            }
            mandatory true;
            description
              "Lower boundary for a VLAN.";
          }
          leaf upper-vlan {
            type uint16;
            mandatory true;
            description
              "Upper boundary for a VLAN.";
          }
        }
        case operator {
          leaf operator {
            type packet-fields:operator;
            default "eq";
            description
              "Operator to be applied on the VLAN below.";
          }
          leaf-list vlan {
            type uint16;
            description
              "VLAN number along with the operator on which to
               match.";
            reference
              "IEEE Std 802.1Q: Bridges and Bridged Networks";
          }
        }
      }
    }
    container isid-filter {
      if-feature "match-on-isid-filter";
      description
        "Indicates how to handle I-SID filters.  The
         I-component is responsible for mapping customer
         Ethernet traffic to the appropriate I-SID.";
      choice isid-type {
        description
          "I-SID definition from range or operator.";

Gonzalez de Dios, et al.

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 9899

Enhanced ACLs

December 2025

        case range {
          leaf lower-isid {
            type uint16;
            must '. <= ../upper-isid' {
              error-message
                "The lower-isid must be less than or equal to
                 the upper-isid.";
            }
            mandatory true;
            description
              "Lower boundary for an I-SID.";
          }
          leaf upper-isid {
            type uint16;
            mandatory true;
            description
              "Upper boundary for an I-SID.";
          }
        }
        case operator {
          leaf operator {
            type packet-fields:operator;
            default "eq";
            description
              "Operator to be applied on the I-SID below.";
          }
          leaf-list isid {
            type uint16;
            description
              "I-SID number along with the operator on which to
               match.";
            reference
              "IEEE 802.1ah: Provider Backbone Bridges";
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }

  augment "/acl:acls/acl:acl/acl:aces"
        + "/acl:ace/acl:matches/acl:l3/acl:ipv4/acl:ipv4" {
    description
      "Handle non-initial and initial fragments for IPv4 packets.";
    container ipv4-fragment {
      must 'not(../acl:flags)' {
        error-message
          "Either flags or fragment should be provided, but not
           both.";
      }
      description
        "Indicates how to handle IPv4 fragments.";
      uses fragment-fields;
    }
    leaf source-ipv4-prefix-list {
      type ipv4-prefix-set-ref;
      description
        "A reference to an IPv4 prefix list to match the source
         address.";

Gonzalez de Dios, et al.

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 9899

Enhanced ACLs

December 2025

    }
    leaf destination-ipv4-prefix-list {
      type ipv4-prefix-set-ref;
      description
        "A reference to a prefix list to match the destination
         address.";
    }
    leaf protocol-set {
      type protocol-set-ref;
      description
        "A reference to a protocol set to match the protocol
         field.";
    }
  }

  augment "/acl:acls/acl:acl/acl:aces"
        + "/acl:ace/acl:matches/acl:l3/acl:ipv6/acl:ipv6" {
    description
      "Handles non-initial and initial fragments for IPv6 packets.";
    container ipv6-fragment {
      description
        "Indicates how to handle IPv6 fragments.";
      uses fragment-fields;
    }
    leaf source-ipv6-prefix-list {
      type ipv6-prefix-set-ref;
      description
        "A reference to a prefix list to match the source address.";
    }
    leaf destination-ipv6-prefix-list {
      type ipv6-prefix-set-ref;
      description
        "A reference to a prefix list to match the destination
         address.";
    }
    leaf protocol-set {
      type protocol-set-ref;
      description
        "A reference to a protocol set to match the next-header
         field.";
    }
    leaf extension-header {
      type iana-ipv6-ext-types:ipv6-extension-header-type;
      description
        "IPv6 extension header value.";
    }
  }

  augment "/acl:acls/acl:acl/acl:aces"
        + "/acl:ace/acl:matches/acl:l4/acl:tcp/acl:tcp" {
    description
      "Handles TCP flags and port sets.";
    container flags-bitmask {
      must 'not(../acl:flags)' {
        error-message
          "Either flags or flags-bitmask should be provided, but not
           both.";
      }

Gonzalez de Dios, et al.

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 9899

Enhanced ACLs

December 2025

      description
        "Indicates how to handle TCP flags.";
      uses tcp-flags;
    }
    leaf source-tcp-port-set {
      type port-set-ref;
      description
        "A reference to a port set to match the source port.";
    }
    leaf destination-tcp-port-set {
      type port-set-ref;
      description
        "A reference to a port set to match the destination port.";
    }
  }

  augment "/acl:acls/acl:acl/acl:aces"
        + "/acl:ace/acl:matches/acl:l4/acl:udp/acl:udp" {
    description
      "Handle UDP port sets.";
    leaf source-udp-port-set {
      type port-set-ref;
      description
        "A reference to a port set to match the source port.";
    }
    leaf destination-udp-port-set {
      type port-set-ref;
      description
        "A reference to a port set to match the destination port.";
    }
  }

  augment "/acl:acls/acl:acl/acl:aces"
        + "/acl:ace/acl:matches/acl:l4/acl:icmp/acl:icmp" {
    description
      "Handle ICMP type sets.";
    leaf icmpv4-set {
      type icmpv4-type-set-ref;
      description
        "A reference to an ICMPv4 type set to match the ICMPv4 type
         field.";
    }
    leaf icmpv6-set {
      type icmpv6-type-set-ref;
      description
        "A reference to an ICMPv6 type set to match the ICMPv6 type
         field.";
    }
  }

  augment "/acl:acls/acl:acl/acl:aces"
        + "/acl:ace/acl:actions" {
    description
      "Complementary actions including rate-limit action.";
    uses acl-complementary-actions;
    leaf rate-limit {
      when "../acl:forwarding = 'acl:accept'" {
        description

Gonzalez de Dios, et al.

Standards Track

Page 33

RFC 9899

Enhanced ACLs

December 2025

          "Rate-limit valid only when the accept action is used.";
      }
      type decimal64 {
        fraction-digits 2;
      }
      units "bytes per second";
      description
        "Indicates a rate-limit for the matched traffic.";
    }
  }
}

<CODE ENDS>

5.  Security Considerations

This section is modeled after the template described in

Section 3.7.1 of [YANG-GUIDELINES]
.

The "ietf-acl-enh" YANG module defines a data model that is designed to be accessed via YANG-
[RFC8040]
based management protocols, such as NETCONF
YANG-based management protocols (1) have to use a secure transport layer (e.g., SSH
TLS

) and (2) have to use mutual authentication.

. These
[RFC4252]
,

 and RESTCONF

, and QUIC

[RFC9000]

[RFC8446]

[RFC6241]

The Network Configuration Access Control Model (NACM)
 provides the means to
restrict access for particular NETCONF or RESTCONF users to a preconfigured subset of all
available NETCONF or RESTCONF protocol operations and content.

[RFC8341]

There are a number of data nodes defined in this YANG module that are writable/creatable/
deletable (i.e., "config true", which is the default). All writable data nodes are likely to be
reasonably sensitive or vulnerable in some network environments. Write operations (e.g., edit-
config) and delete operations to these data nodes without proper protection or authentication
can have a negative effect on network operations. The following subtrees and data nodes have
particular sensitivities/vulnerabilities:

'defined-sets':

These lists specify a set of IP addresses, port numbers, protocols, ICMP types, and

[RFC8519]

aliases. Similar to
modify the entries to permit traffic that should not be permitted or deny traffic that should be
permitted. The former may result in a DoS attack or compromise a device. The latter may
result in a DoS attack.

, unauthorized write access to these lists can allow intruders to

These sets are defined with "nacm:default-deny-write" tagging.

Some of the readable data nodes in this YANG module may be considered sensitive or vulnerable
in some network environments. It is thus important to control read access (e.g., via get, get-
config, or notification) to these data nodes. Specifically, the following subtrees and data nodes
have particular sensitivities/vulnerabilities:

'defined-sets':

Gonzalez de Dios, et al.

Standards Track

Page 34

RFC 9899

Enhanced ACLs

December 2025

Unauthorized read access of these lists will allow an attacker to identify the actual resources
that are bound to ACLs. Likewise, access to this information will help an attacker to better
scope its attacks to target resources that are specific to a given network instead of performing
random scans. Also, disclosing some of this information (e.g., IP addresses of core routers)
may nullify the effect of topology-hiding strategies in some networks.

There are no particularly sensitive RPC or action operations.

The document defines a match policy based on a pattern that can be observed in a packet. For
example, such a policy can be combined with header-based matches in the context of DDoS
mitigation. Filtering based on a pattern match is deterministic for packets with unencrypted
data. However, the efficiency for encrypted packets depends on the presence of an unvarying
Section 11 of [RFC8329]
pattern. Readers may also refer to
Network Security Functions (NSFs) that apply packet content matching.

 for security considerations related to

The YANG modules "iana-icmpv4-types", "iana-icmpv6-types", and "iana- ipv6-ext-types" define a
set of types. These nodes are intended to be reused by other YANG modules. Each module by
itself does not expose any data nodes that are writable, data nodes that contain read-only state,
or RPCs. As such, there are no additional security issues related to these YANG modules that
need to be considered.

6.  IANA Considerations

6.1.  URI Registrations

IANA has registered the following URIs in the "ns" registry within the "IETF XML Registry"
[RFC3688]
:

urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-acl-enh

URI:
Registrant Contact:
XML:

The IESG

N/A; the requested URI is an XML namespace.

urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:iana-icmpv4-types

URI:
Registrant Contact:
XML:

The IESG

N/A; the requested URI is an XML namespace.

urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:iana-icmpv6-types

URI:
Registrant Contact:
XML:

The IESG

N/A; the requested URI is an XML namespace.

urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:iana-ipv6-ext-types

URI:
Registrant Contact:
XML:

The IESG

N/A; the requested URI is an XML namespace.

Gonzalez de Dios, et al.

Standards Track

Page 35

RFC 9899

Enhanced ACLs

December 2025

6.2.  YANG Module Name Registrations

IANA has registered the following YANG modules in the "YANG Module Names" registry
[RFC6020] [RFC9890]
 within the "YANG Parameters" registry group.

ietf-acl-enh
Name:
Maintained by IANA:
Namespace:
Prefix:
Reference:

acl-enh

RFC 9899

N

urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-acl-enh

iana-icmpv4-types

Name:
Maintained by IANA:
Namespace:
Prefix:
Reference:

iana-icmpv4-types
RFC 9899

Y

urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:iana-icmpv4-types

iana-icmpv6-types

Name:
Maintained by IANA:
Namespace:
Prefix:
Reference:

iana-icmpv6-types
RFC 9899

Y

urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:iana-icmpv6-types

iana-ipv6-ext-types

Name:
Maintained by IANA:
Namespace:
Prefix:
Reference:

iana-ipv6-ext-types
RFC 9899

Y

urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:iana-ipv6-ext-types

6.3.  Considerations for IANA-Maintained Modules

6.3.1.  ICMPv4 Types IANA Module

This document creates the initial version of the IANA-maintained "iana-icmpv4-types" YANG
module. The most recent version of the YANG module is available in the "YANG Parameters"
registry group

[IANA-YANG-PARAMETERS]
.

IANA has added this note to the registry:

New values must not be directly added to the "iana-icmpv4-types" YANG module. They
must instead be added to the "ICMP Type Numbers" registry

[IANA-ICMPv4]

.

Gonzalez de Dios, et al.

Standards Track

Page 36

RFC 9899

Enhanced ACLs

December 2025

When a value is added to the "ICMP Type Numbers" registry, a new "enum" statement must be
added to the "iana-icmpv4-types" YANG module. The "enum" statement, and substatements
thereof, should be defined as follows:

"enum":

Replicates the name from the registry with all illegal characters (e.g., spaces) stripped.

"value":

Contains the decimal value of the IANA-assigned value.

"status":

Included only if a registration has been deprecated or obsoleted. IANA "deprecated"

maps to YANG status "deprecated", and IANA "obsolete" maps to YANG status "obsolete".

"description":

Replicates the name from the registry.

"reference":
added.

Replicates the reference(s) from the registry with the title of the document(s)

Unassigned, reserved, or values styled like those in

[RFC3692]

 are not present in the module.

When the "iana-icmpv4-types" YANG module is updated, a new "revision" statement with a
unique revision date must be added in front of the existing revision statements.

IANA has added this note to "ICMP Type Numbers" registry
document as an additional reference for the registry:

[IANA-ICMPv4]

 and listed this

When this registry is modified, the YANG module "iana-icmpv4-types"
PARAMETERS]
 must be updated as defined in RFC 9899.

[IANA-YANG-

6.3.2.  ICMPv6 Types IANA Module

This document creates the initial version of the IANA-maintained "iana-icmpv6-types" YANG
module. The most recent version of the YANG module is available in the "YANG Parameters"
registry group

[IANA-YANG-PARAMETERS]
.

IANA has added this note to the registry:

New values must not be directly added to the "iana-icmpv6-types" YANG module. They
must instead be added to the "ICMPv6 "type" Numbers" registry

[IANA-ICMPv6]

.

When a value is added to the "ICMPv6 "type" Numbers" registry, a new "enum" statement must
be added to the "iana-icmpv6-types" YANG module. The "enum" statement, and substatements
thereof, should be defined as follows:

"enum":

Replicates the name from the registry with all illegal characters (e.g., spaces) stripped.

"value":

Contains the decimal value of the IANA-assigned value.

Gonzalez de Dios, et al.

Standards Track

Page 37

RFC 9899

Enhanced ACLs

December 2025

"status":

Included only if a registration has been deprecated or obsoleted. IANA "deprecated"

maps to YANG status "deprecated", and IANA "obsolete" maps to YANG status "obsolete".

"description":

Replicates the name from the registry.

"reference":
added.

Replicates the reference(s) from the registry with the title of the document(s)

Unassigned, reserved, or private experimentation values are not present in the module.

When the "iana-icmpv6-types" YANG module is updated, a new "revision" statement with a
unique revision date must be added in front of the existing revision statements.

IANA has added this note to the "ICMPv6 "type" Numbers" registry
document as an additional reference for the registry:

[IANA-ICMPv6]

 and listed this

When this registry is modified, the YANG module "iana-icmpv6-types"
PARAMETERS]
 must be updated as defined in RFC 9899.

[IANA-YANG-

6.3.3.  IPv6 Extension Header Types IANA Module

This document creates the initial version of the IANA-maintained "iana-ipv6-ext-types" YANG
module. The most recent version of the YANG module is available in the "YANG Parameters"
registry group

[IANA-YANG-PARAMETERS]
.

IANA has added this note to the registry:

New values must not be directly added to the "iana-ipv6-ext-types" YANG module. They
must instead be added to the "IPv6 Extension Header Types" registry

[IANA-IPv6]

.

When a value is added to the "IPv6 Extension Header Types" registry, a new "enum" statement
must be added to the "iana-ipv6-ext-types" YANG module. The "enum" statement, and
substatements thereof, should be defined as follows

"enum":

Replicates the description from the registry with all spaces stripped.

"value":

Contains the decimal value of the IANA-assigned value.

"status":

Included only if a registration has been deprecated or obsoleted. IANA "deprecated"

maps to YANG status "deprecated", and IANA "obsolete" maps to YANG status "obsolete".

"description":

Replicates the description from the registry.

"reference":
added.

Replicates the reference(s) from the registry with the title of the document(s)

Gonzalez de Dios, et al.

Standards Track

Page 38

RFC 9899

Enhanced ACLs

December 2025

Unassigned or reserved values are not present in the module.

When the "iana-ipv6-ext-types" YANG module is updated, a new "revision" statement with a
unique revision date must be added in front of the existing revision statements.

IANA has added this note to the "IPv6 Extension Header Types" registry
this document as an additional reference for the registry:

[IANA-IPv6]

 and listed

When this registry is modified, the YANG module "iana-ipv6-ext-types"
PARAMETERS]
 must be updated as defined in RFC 9899.

[IANA-YANG-

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[IANA-ICMPv4]

[IANA-ICMPv6]

[IANA-IPv6]

[RFC0792]

[RFC2119]

[RFC3032]

[RFC3688]

[RFC4443]

[RFC5462]

IANA "ICMP Type Numbers" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/icmp-

,

,
parameters>

.

IANA "ICMPv6 "type" Numbers" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/icmpv6-

,

,
parameters>

.

IANA "IPv6 Extension Header Types" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/ipv6-
,
parameters>

,

.

Postel, J. "Internet Control Message Protocol" STD 5 RFC 792 DOI 10.17487/
,
RFC0792
, September 1981,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc792>

,

,

.

,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Rosen, E. Tappan, D. Fedorkow, G. Rekhter, Y. Farinacci, D. Li, T.
"MPLS Label Stack Encoding" RFC 3032 DOI 10.17487/RFC3032
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3032>

.

,

,

,

,

,

, and

A. Conta
, January 2001,

,

Mealling, M. "The IETF XML Registry" BCP 81 RFC 3688 DOI 10.17487/RFC3688
,
January 2004,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3688>

,
.

,

,

,

, and

Conta, A. Deering, S.
,
(ICMPv6) for the Internet Protocol Version 6 (IPv6) Specification" STD 89 RFC
4443 DOI 10.17487/RFC4443
,
rfc4443>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

M. Gupta, Ed. "Internet Control Message Protocol

, March 2006,

,

.

,

 and

Andersson, L.
Entry: "EXP" Field Renamed to "Traffic Class" Field" RFC 5462 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5462

R. Asati "Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) Label Stack

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5462>

, February 2009,

,

,

,

.

Gonzalez de Dios, et al.

Standards Track

Page 39

RFC 9899

Enhanced ACLs

December 2025

[RFC6020]

[RFC6991]

[RFC7950]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8200]

[RFC8294]

[RFC8341]

[RFC8342]

[RFC8519]

[RFC9293]

Bjorklund, M., Ed. "YANG - A Data Modeling Language for the Network
Configuration Protocol (NETCONF)" RFC 6020 DOI 10.17487/RFC6020
,
2010,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6020>

,

.

, October

Schoenwaelder, J., Ed. "Common YANG Data Types" RFC 6991 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6991

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6991>

, July 2013,

,
.

,

,

Bjorklund, M., Ed. "The YANG 1.1 Data Modeling Language" RFC 7950 DOI
,
10.17487/RFC7950
.
, August 2016,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7950>

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Deering, S.
86 RFC 8200 DOI 10.17487/RFC8200
rfc8200>

 and
,

,

,

.

R. Hinden "Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6) Specification" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, July 2017,

,

,

,

Liu, X. Qu, Y. Lindem, A. Hopps, C.
for the Routing Area" RFC 8294 DOI 10.17487/RFC8294
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8294>

, and

,

,

.

L. Berger "Common YANG Data Types

,

, December 2017,

<https://

 and

Bierman, A.
STD 91 RFC 8341 DOI 10.17487/RFC8341
editor.org/info/rfc8341>

M. Bjorklund "Network Configuration Access Control Model"
,
, March 2018,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

,

,

R. Wilton "Network
Bjorklund, M. Schoenwaelder, J. Shafer, P. Watsen, K.
,
Management Datastore Architecture (NMDA)" RFC 8342 DOI 10.17487/RFC8342
,
March 2018,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8342>

, and
,

,

,

,

.

,

Jethanandani, M. Agarwal, S. Huang, L.
Network Access Control Lists (ACLs)" RFC 8519 DOI 10.17487/RFC8519
2019,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8519>

D. Blair "YANG Data Model for

, and

,
.

,

,

,

, March

Eddy, W., Ed. "Transmission Control Protocol (TCP)" STD 7 RFC 9293 DOI
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9293>
10.17487/RFC9293
.

, August 2022,

,

,

,

7.2.  Informative References

[IANA-TCP-FLAGS]

IANA "Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) Parameters" <https://

,

,

www.iana.org/assignments/tcp-parameters>

.

[IANA-YANG-PARAMETERS]

IANA "YANG Parameters" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/

,

,

yang-parameters>

.

[IEEE-802-1ah]

,

IEEE "IEEE Standard for Local and metropolitan area networks -- Virtual
Bridged Local Area Networks Amendment 7: Provider Backbone Bridges" IEEE
,
Std 802.1ah-2008 DOI 10.1109/IEEESTD.2008.4602826
doi.org/10.1109/IEEESTD.2008.4602826>

, August 2008,

<https://

,

.

Gonzalez de Dios, et al.

Standards Track

Page 40

RFC 9899

Enhanced ACLs

December 2025

[IEEE802.1Qcp]

[RFC3692]

[RFC4252]

[RFC6241]

[RFC7209]

[RFC8040]

[RFC8329]

[RFC8340]

[RFC8446]

[RFC8955]

[RFC8956]

[RFC9000]

[RFC9132]

,

IEEE "IEEE Standard for Local and metropolitan area networks--Bridges and
Bridged Networks--Amendment 30: YANG Data Model" IEEE Std 802.1Qcp-2018
DOI 10.1109/IEEESTD.2018.8467507
IEEESTD.2018.8467507>

<https://doi.org/10.1109/

, September 2018,

,

.

,

,

Narten, T. "Assigning Experimental and Testing Numbers Considered Useful"
BCP 82 RFC 3692 DOI 10.17487/RFC3692
editor.org/info/rfc3692>

<https://www.rfc-

, January 2004,

,

,

.

,

Ylonen, T.
 and
RFC 4252 DOI 10.17487/RFC4252
,
rfc4252>
.

C. Lonvick, Ed. "The Secure Shell (SSH) Authentication Protocol"

,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, January 2006,

,

Enns, R., Ed. Bjorklund, M., Ed. Schoenwaelder, J., Ed.
"Network Configuration Protocol (NETCONF)" RFC 6241 DOI 10.17487/RFC6241
June 2011,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6241>

A. Bierman, Ed.

, and
,

,

,

,

.

,

,

Sajassi, A. Aggarwal, R. Uttaro, J. Bitar, N. Henderickx, W.
"Requirements for Ethernet VPN (EVPN)" RFC 7209 DOI 10.17487/RFC7209
2014,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7209>

A. Isaac

, and

,

,

,

,

,

,

.

, May

Bierman, A. Bjorklund, M.
,
10.17487/RFC8040

, and

K. Watsen "RESTCONF Protocol" RFC 8040 DOI

,

,

, January 2017,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8040>

,
.

,

R. Kumar "Framework for
Lopez, D. Lopez, E. Dunbar, L. Strassner, J.
Interface to Network Security Functions" RFC 8329 DOI 10.17487/RFC8329
,
February 2018,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8329>

, and

,

,

,

,

,

.

Bjorklund, M.
 and
10.17487/RFC8340

L. Berger, Ed. "YANG Tree Diagrams" BCP 215 RFC 8340 DOI
, March 2018,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8340>

,

,

,

.

Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
,
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>

, August 2018,

,

.

,

Loibl, C. Hares, S. Raszuk, R. McPherson, D.
,
Flow Specification Rules" RFC 8955 DOI 10.17487/RFC8955
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8955>

, and

,

.

,

,

M. Bacher "Dissemination of

,
, December 2020,

Loibl, C., Ed. Raszuk, R., Ed.
,
, and
Specification Rules for IPv6" RFC 8956 DOI 10.17487/RFC8956
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8956>

S. Hares, Ed. "Dissemination of Flow

,

,

.

, December 2020,

Iyengar, J., Ed.
Secure Transport" RFC 9000 DOI 10.17487/RFC9000
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9000>

 and
,

.

,

M. Thomson, Ed. "QUIC: A UDP-Based Multiplexed and

,

, May 2021,

<https://

Boucadair, M., Ed. Shallow, J.
Open Threat Signaling (DOTS) Signal Channel Specification" RFC 9132 DOI
10.17487/RFC9132

T. Reddy.K "Distributed Denial-of-Service

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9132>

, September 2021,

, and

,

,

,

,

.

Gonzalez de Dios, et al.

Standards Track

Page 41

RFC 9899

Enhanced ACLs

December 2025

[RFC9890]

,

Bierman, A. Boucadair, M., Ed.
Registration" RFC 9890 DOI 10.17487/RFC9890
,
editor.org/info/rfc9890>
.

, and

,

,

Q. Wu "An Update to YANG Module Names
<https://www.rfc-

, October 2025,

[YANG-GUIDELINES]

Bierman, A. Boucadair, M.
,

Q. Wu "Guidelines for Authors and
, and
Reviewers of Documents Containing YANG Data Models" Work in Progress
,
Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-netmod-rfc8407bis-28
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-netmod-rfc8407bis-28>

, 5 June 2025,

<https://

,

.

,

[YANG-XSLT]

"iana-yang" commit 3a6cb69
yang>

.

,

, December 2021,

<https://github.com/llhotka/iana-

Appendix A.  Problem Statement and Gap Analysis

A.1.  Suboptimal Configuration: Lack of Support for Lists of Prefixes

IP prefix-related data nodes (e.g., "destination-ipv4-network" or "destination-ipv6-network") do
not support handling a list of IP prefixes, which may then lead to having to support large
numbers of ACL entries in a configuration file.

The same issue is encountered when ACLs have to be in place to mitigate DDoS attacks that
involve a set of sources (e.g.,
and destination prefixes are involved in the filtering.

). The situation is even worse when both a list of sources

[RFC9132]

Figure 3 shows an example of the required ACL configuration for filtering traffic from two
prefixes.

Gonzalez de Dios, et al.

Standards Track

Page 42

RFC 9899

Enhanced ACLs

December 2025

{
  "ietf-access-control-list:acls": {
    "acl": [
      {
        "name": "first-prefix",
        "type": "ipv6-acl-type",
        "aces": {
          "ace": [
            {
              "name": "my-test-ace",
              "matches": {
                "ipv6": {
                  "destination-ipv6-network":
                    "2001:db8:6401:1::/64",
                  "source-ipv6-network":
                    "2001:db8:1234::/96",
                  "protocol": 17,
                  "flow-label": 10000
                },
                "udp": {
                  "source-port": {
                    "operator": "lte",
                    "port": 80
                  },
                  "destination-port": {
                    "operator": "neq",
                    "port": 1010
                  }
                }
              },
              "actions": {
                "forwarding": "accept"
              }
            }
          ]
        }
      },
      {
        "name": "second-prefix",
        "type": "ipv6-acl-type",
        "aces": {
          "ace": [
            {
              "name": "my-test-ace",
              "matches": {
                "ipv6": {
                  "destination-ipv6-network":
                    "2001:db8:6401:c::/64",
                  "source-ipv6-network":
                    "2001:db8:1234::/96",
                  "protocol": 17,
                  "flow-label": 10000
                },
                "udp": {
                  "source-port": {
                    "operator": "lte",
                    "port": 80

Gonzalez de Dios, et al.

Standards Track

Page 43

RFC 9899

Enhanced ACLs

December 2025

                  },
                  "destination-port": {
                    "operator": "neq",
                    "port": 1010
                  }
                }
              },
              "actions": {
                "forwarding": "accept"
              }
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}

Figure 3: Example Illustrating Suboptimal Use of the ACL Model with a Prefix List (Message Body)

Such a configuration is suboptimal for both:

•

network controllers that need to manipulate large files, as all or a subset for this
configuration will need to be passed to the underlying network devices, and

•

devices that may receive such a configuration and thus will need to maintain it locally.

A.2.  Manageability: Impossibility of Using Aliases or Defined Sets

The same approach as the one discussed for IP prefixes can be generalized by introducing the
concept of "aliases" or "defined sets".

The defined sets are reusable definitions across several ACLs. Each category is modeled in YANG
as a list of parameters related to the class it represents. The following sets can be considered:

Prefix sets:

Used to create lists of IPv4 or IPv6 prefixes.

Protocol sets:

Used to create a list of protocols.

Port number sets:

Used to create lists of TCP or UDP port values (or any other transport

protocol that makes uses of port numbers). The identity of the protocols is identified by the
protocol set, if present. Otherwise, a set applies to any protocol.

ICMP sets:

Used to create lists of ICMP-based filters. This applies only when the protocol is set

to ICMP or ICMPv6.

Aliases may also be considered to manage resources that are identified by a combination of
various parameters (e.g., prefix, protocol, port number, FQDN, or VLAN IDs). Note that some
aliases can be provided by decomposing them into separate sets.

Gonzalez de Dios, et al.

Standards Track

Page 44

RFC 9899

Enhanced ACLs

December 2025

A.3.  Bind ACLs to Devices, Not Only Interfaces

In the context of network management, an ACL may be enforced in many network locations. As
such, the ACL module should allow for binding an ACL to multiple devices, not only (abstract)
interfaces.

Thus, the ACL name must be unique at the scale of the network, but the same name may be used
in many devices when enforcing node-specific ACLs.

A.4.  Partial or Lack of IPv4/IPv6 Fragment Handling

 does not support fragment handling for IPv6 but offers a partial support for IPv4

[RFC8519]
through the use of 'flags'. Nevertheless, the use of 'flags' is problematic since it does not allow a
bitmask to be defined. For example, setting other bits not covered by the 'flags' filtering clause in
a packet will allow that packet to get through (because it won't match the ACE).

Defining a new IPv4/IPv6 matching field called 'fragment' is thus required to efficiently handle
fragment-related filtering rules.

A.5.  Suboptimal TCP Flags Handling

 supports including flags in the TCP match fields; however, that structure does not

[RFC8519]
support matching operations as those supported in BGP Flow Spec. Defining this field as a flag
bitmask together with a set of operations is meant to efficiently handle TCP flags filtering rules.

A.6.  Rate-Limit Action

 specifies that forwarding actions can be 'accept' (i.e., accept matching traffic),

[RFC8519]
'drop' (i.e., drop matching traffic without sending any ICMP error message), or 'reject' (i.e., drop
matching traffic and send an ICMP error message to the source). However, there are situations
where the matching traffic can be accepted, but with a rate-limit policy. This capability is not
supported by

[RFC8519]
.

A.7.  Payload-Based Filtering

Some transport protocols use existing protocols (e.g., TCP or UDP) as substrate. The match
criteria for such protocols may rely upon the 'protocol' under 'l3', TCP/UDP match criteria, part
of the TCP/UDP payload, or a combination thereof.
 does not support matching based
on the payload.

[RFC8519]

Likewise, the ACL model defined in

[RFC8519]

 does not support filtering of encapsulated traffic.

Gonzalez de Dios, et al.

Standards Track

Page 45

RFC 9899

Enhanced ACLs

December 2025

A.8.  Reuse the Content of ACLs Across Several Devices

Having a global network view of the ACLs is highly valuable for service providers. An ACL could
be defined and applied based on the network topology hierarchy. Therefore, an ACL can be
defined at the network level, and then that same ACL can be used in (or referenced to) several
devices (including termination points) within the same network.

This network/device differentiation of ACLs introduces several new requirements, for example:

•

An ACL name can be used at both network and device levels.

•

An ACL content updated at the network level should imply a transaction that updates the
relevant content in all the nodes using this ACL.

•

ACLs defined at the device level have a local meaning for the specific node.

•

A device can be associated with a router, a Virtual Routing and Forwarding (VRF), a logical
system, or a virtual node. ACLs can be applied in physical and logical infrastructure.

A.9.  Match MPLS Headers

The ACLs can be used to create rules to match MPLS fields on a packet.
support such function.

[RFC8519]

 does not

Appendix B.  Examples

This section provides a few examples to illustrate the use of the enhanced ACL module ("ietf-acl-
enh").

B.1.  TCP Flags Handling

Figure 4 shows an example of the message body of a request to install a filter to discard
incoming TCP messages having all flags unset.

Gonzalez de Dios, et al.

Standards Track

Page 46

RFC 9899

Enhanced ACLs

December 2025

{
  "ietf-access-control-list:acls": {
    "acl": [
      {
        "name": "tcp-flags-example",
        "aces": {
          "ace": [
            {
              "name": "null-attack",
              "matches": {
                "tcp": {
                  "ietf-acl-enh:flags-bitmask": {
                    "operator": "not any",
                    "bitmask": 4095
                  }
                }
              },
              "actions": {
                "forwarding": "drop"
              }
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}

Figure 4: Example of an ACL to Deny TCP Null Attack Messages (Request Body)

B.2.  Fragments Handling

Figure 5 shows the content of a POST request to allow the traffic destined to 198.51.100.0/24 and
UDP port number 53, but to drop all fragmented packets. The following ACEs are defined (in this
order):

"drop-all-fragments" ACE:

discards all fragments.

"allow-dns-packets" ACE:

accepts DNS packets destined to 198.51.100.0/24.

Gonzalez de Dios, et al.

Standards Track

Page 47

RFC 9899

Enhanced ACLs

December 2025

{
  "ietf-access-control-list:acls": {
    "acl": [
      {
        "name": "dns-fragments",
        "type": "ipv4-acl-type",
        "aces": {
          "ace": [
            {
              "name": "drop-all-fragments",
              "matches": {
                "ipv4": {
                  "ietf-acl-enh:ipv4-fragment": {
                    "operator": "match",
                    "type": "isf"
                  }
                }
              },
              "actions": {
                "forwarding": "drop"
              }
            },
            {
              "name": "allow-dns-packets",
              "matches": {
                "ipv4": {
                  "destination-ipv4-network": "198.51.100.0/24"
                },
                "udp": {
                  "destination-port": {
                    "operator": "eq",
                    "port": 53
                  }
                }
              },
              "actions": {
                "forwarding": "accept"
              }
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}

Figure 5: Example Illustrating Candidate Filtering of IPv4 Fragmented Packets (Message Body)

Figure 6 shows an example of the body of a POST request to allow the traffic destined to
2001:db8::/32 and UDP port number 53, but to drop all fragmented packets. The following ACEs
are defined (in this order):

"drop-all-fragments" ACE:

discards all fragments (including atomic fragments). That is, IPv6

packets that include a Fragment header (44) are dropped.

Gonzalez de Dios, et al.

Standards Track

Page 48

RFC 9899

Enhanced ACLs

December 2025

"allow-dns-packets" ACE: accepts DNS packets destined to 2001:db8::/32.

{
  "ietf-access-control-list:acls": {
    "acl": [
      {
        "name": "dns-fragments",
        "type": "ipv6-acl-type",
        "aces": {
          "ace": [
            {
              "name": "drop-all-fragments",
              "matches": {
                "ipv6": {
                  "ietf-acl-enh:ipv6-fragment": {
                    "operator": "match",
                    "type": "isf"
                  }
                }
              },
              "actions": {
                "forwarding": "drop"
              }
            },
            {
              "name": "allow-dns-packets",
              "matches": {
                "ipv6": {
                  "destination-ipv6-network": "2001:db8::/32"
                },
                "udp": {
                  "destination-port": {
                    "operator": "eq",
                    "port": 53
                  }
                }
              },
              "actions": {
                "forwarding": "accept"
              }
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}

Figure 6: An Example Illustrating Filtering of IPv6 Fragmented Packets (Message Body)

Gonzalez de Dios, et al.

Standards Track

Page 49

RFC 9899

Enhanced ACLs

December 2025

B.3.  Pattern-Based Filtering

Pattern-based filtering is useful to detect specific patterns, signatures, or encapsulated packets.
Figure 7 shows an example of the message body of a request to install a filter to discard IP-in-IP
encapsulated messages with an inner destination IP address equal to "2001:db8::1". By using the
offset at the end of Layer 3, the rule targets a specific portion of the payload that starts 20 bytes
after the beginning of the data (that is, skipping the first 20 bytes of the inner IPv6 header).

For the reader's convenience, the textual representation of the pattern is used in the example
instead of the binary form.

{
  "ietf-access-control-list:acls": {
    "acl": [
      {
        "name": "pattern-example",
        "aces": {
          "ace": [
            {
              "name": "pattern-1",
              "matches": {
                "ipv6": {
                  "protocol": 41
                },
                "ietf-acl-enh:pattern": {
                  "offset": "ietf-acl-enh:layer4",
                  "length": 20,
                  "operator": "match",
                  "pattern": "2001:db8::1"
                }
              },
              "actions": {
                "forwarding": "drop"
              }
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}

Figure 7: Example of an ACL to Deny Encapsulated Messages with a Specific Inner Destination
Address (Request Body)

B.4.  VLAN Filtering

Figure 8 shows an ACL example to illustrate how to apply a VLAN range filter.

Gonzalez de Dios, et al.

Standards Track

Page 50

RFC 9899

Enhanced ACLs

December 2025

{
  "ietf-access-control-list:acls": {
    "acl": [
      {
        "name": "VLAN_FILTER",
        "aces": {
          "ace": [
            {
              "name": "1",
              "matches": {
                "ietf-acl-enh:vlan-filter": {
                  "lower-vlan": 10,
                  "upper-vlan": 20
                }
              },
              "actions": {
                "forwarding": "ietf-access-control-list:accept"
              }
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}

Figure 8: Example of VLAN Filter (Message Body)

B.5.  I-SID Filtering

Figure 9 shows an ACL example to illustrate the I-SID range filtering.

Gonzalez de Dios, et al.

Standards Track

Page 51

RFC 9899

Enhanced ACLs

December 2025

{
  "ietf-access-control-list:acls": {
    "acl": [
      {
        "name": "test",
        "aces": {
          "ace": [
            {
              "name": "1",
              "matches": {
                "ietf-acl-enh:isid-filter": {
                  "lower-isid": 100,
                  "upper-isid": 200
                }
              },
              "actions": {
                "forwarding": "ietf-access-control-list:accept"
              }
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}

Figure 9: Example I-SID Filter (Message Body)

B.6.  Rate-Limit

Figure 10 shows an ACL example to rate-limit incoming SYNs during a SYN flood attack.

Gonzalez de Dios, et al.

Standards Track

Page 52

RFC 9899

Enhanced ACLs

December 2025

{
  "ietf-access-control-list:acls": {
    "acl": [
      {
        "name": "tcp-flags-example-with-rate-limit",
        "aces": {
          "ace": [
            {
              "name": "rate-limit-syn",
              "matches": {
                "tcp": {
                  "ietf-acl-enh:flags-bitmask": {
                    "operator": "match",
                    "bitmask": 2
                  }
                }
              },
              "actions": {
                "forwarding": "accept",
                "ietf-acl-enh:rate-limit": "20.00"
              }
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}

Figure 10: An Example of Rate-Limiting Incoming TCP SYNs (Message Body)

Acknowledgments

Many thanks to

Jon Shallow

 and

Miguel Cros

 for their review and comments on this document.

Thanks to
and suggestions.

Qiufang Ma Victor Lopez Joe Clarke

,

,

, and

Mahesh Jethanandani

 for their comments

Thanks to

Lou Berger

 for shepherding this document.

David Black

Thanks to
for the yangdoctors review,
Turner

 for the secdir reviews.

 for the tsvart review,

Tim Wicinski

 for the intdir review,

Per Andersson

Russ Housley

 for the genart review, and

Linda Dunbar

 and

Sean

Thanks to
review.

Erik Kline Mike Bishop Éric Vyncke Roman Danyliw

,

,

,

, and

Deb Cooley

 for the IESG

The IANA-maintained modules were generated using an XSLT stylesheet from the 'iana-yang'
project

[YANG-XSLT]
.

Gonzalez de Dios, et al.

Standards Track

Page 53

RFC 9899

Enhanced ACLs

December 2025

This work is partially supported by the European Commission under Horizon 2020 Secured
autonomic traffic management for a Tera of SDN flows (Teraflow) project (grant agreement
number 101015857).

Authors' Addresses

Oscar Gonzalez de Dios
Telefonica
Email:

oscar.gonzalezdedios@telefonica.com

Samier Barguil
Nokia
Email:

samier.barguil_giraldo@nokia.com

Mohamed Boucadair
Orange
Email:

mohamed.boucadair@orange.com

Qin Wu
Huawei
Email:

bill.wu@huawei.com

Gonzalez de Dios, et al.

Standards Track

Page 54

