Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9615
7344, 8078
Standards Track
July 2024
2070-1721
P. Thomassen
deSEC, Secure Systems Engineering (SSE)

N. Wisiol
deSEC, Technische Universität Berlin

RFC 9615
Automatic DNSSEC Bootstrapping Using
Authenticated Signals from the Zone's Operator

Abstract

This document introduces an in-band method for DNS operators to publish arbitrary information
about the zones for which they are authoritative, in an authenticated fashion and on a per-zone
basis. The mechanism allows managed DNS operators to securely announce DNSSEC key
parameters for zones under their management, including for zones that are not currently
securely delegated.

Whenever DS records are absent for a zone's delegation, this signal enables the parent's registry
or registrar to cryptographically validate the CDS/CDNSKEY records found at the child's apex. The
parent can then provision DS records for the delegation without resorting to out-of-band
validation or weaker types of cross-checks such as "Accept after Delay".

This document establishes the DS enrollment method described in Section 4 of this document as
the preferred method over those from Section 3 of RFC 8078. It also updates RFC 7344.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9615
.

Thomassen & Wisiol

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9615

DNSSEC Bootstrapping

July 2024

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in effect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Terminology

1.2.  Requirements Notation

2.  Updates to RFCs

3.  Signaling

3.1.  Chain of Trust

3.2.  Signaling Names

4.  Bootstrapping a DNSSEC Delegation

4.1.  Signaling Consent to Act as the Child's Signer

4.1.1.  Example

4.2.  Validating CDS/CDNSKEY Records for DNSSEC Bootstrapping

4.2.1.  Example

4.3.  Triggers

4.4.  Limitations

5.  Operational Recommendations

5.1.  Child DNS Operator

5.2.  Parental Agent

6.  Security Considerations

7.  IANA Considerations

3

4

5

5

5

5

5

6

6

6

7

7

8

9

9

9

9

10

10

Thomassen & Wisiol

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9615

DNSSEC Bootstrapping

July 2024

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

8.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

10

10

11

12

12

Securing a DNS delegation for the first time requires that the child's DNSSEC parameters be
conveyed to the parent through some trusted channel. While the communication conceptually
has to occur between the parent registry and the DNSSEC key holder, what that means exactly
and how communication is coordinated traditionally depends on the relationship the child has
with the parent.

A typical situation is that the key is held by the child DNS operator; thus, the communication
often involves this entity. In addition, depending on the circumstances, it may also involve the
registrar, possibly via the registrant (for details, see

Appendix A of [RFC7344]
.

[RFC7344]

, these dependencies often result in a manual process that is susceptible

As observed in
to mistakes and/or errors. In addition, due to the annoyance factor of the process, involved
parties may avoid the process of getting a DS resource record set (RRset) published in the first
place.

. It is based on the parental agent (registry or registrar) fetching DNSSEC key

To alleviate these problems, automated provisioning of DS records has been specified in
[RFC8078]
parameters from the CDS and CDNSKEY records (
) located at the child zone's apex, and
validating them somehow. This validation can be done using the child's existing DNSSEC chain of
trust if the objective is to update an existing DS RRset (such as during key rollover). However,
when bootstrapping a DNSSEC delegation, the child zone has no existing DNSSEC validation path,
so other means to ensure the CDS/CDNSKEY records' legitimacy must be found.

[RFC7344]

Due to the lack of a comprehensive DNS-innate solution, either out-of-band methods have been
used so far to complete the chain of trust, or cryptographic validation has been entirely
dispensed with, in exchange for weaker types of cross-checks such as "Accept after Delay"
Section 3.3 of [RFC8078]
(
DNSSEC.

 does not define an in-band validation method for enabling

[RFC8078]

).

This document aims to close this gap by introducing an in-band method for DNS operators to
publish arbitrary information about the zones for which they are authoritative, in an
authenticated manner and on a per-zone basis. The mechanism allows managed DNS operators

Thomassen & Wisiol

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9615

DNSSEC Bootstrapping

July 2024

to securely announce DNSSEC key parameters for zones under their management. The parent
can then use this signal to cryptographically validate the CDS/CDNSKEY RRsets found at an
insecure child zone's apex and, upon success, secure the delegation.

While applicable to the vast majority of domains, the protocol does not support certain edge
cases, such as excessively long child zone names, or DNSSEC bootstrapping for domains with in-
domain nameservers only (see Section 4.4).

DNSSEC bootstrapping is just one application of the generic signaling mechanism specified in this
document. Other applications might arise in the future, such as publishing operational metadata
or auxiliary information that the DNS operator likes to make known (e.g., API endpoints for
third-party interaction).

Readers are expected to be familiar with DNSSEC

[BCP237]
.

1.1.  Terminology

This section defines the terminology used in this document.

CDS/CDNSKEY:

This notation refers to CDS and/or CDNSKEY, i.e., one or both.

Child:

See

Section 7 of [RFC9499]

.

Child DNS operator:

The entity that maintains and publishes the zone information for the child

DNS.

Parent:

See

Section 7 of [RFC9499]

.

Parental agent:

The entity that has the authority to insert DS records into the parent zone on

behalf of the child. (It could be the registry, registrar, a reseller, or some other authorized
entity.)

Signaling domain:

A domain name constructed by prepending the label _signal to a hostname
taken from a delegation's NS RRset. There are as many signaling domains as there are distinct
NS targets.

Signaling name:

The labels that are prefixed to a signaling domain in order to identify a

signaling type and a child zone's name (see Section 3.2).

Signaling record:

A DNS record located at a signaling name under a signaling domain. Signaling

records are used by the child DNS operator to publish information about the child.

Signaling type:

A signal type identifier, such as _dsboot for DNSSEC bootstrapping.

Signaling zone:

The zone that is authoritative for a given signaling record.

Thomassen & Wisiol

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9615

DNSSEC Bootstrapping

July 2024

1.2.  Requirements Notation

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Updates to RFCs

The DS enrollment methods described in
described in Section 4 of this document. Therefore, child DNS operators and parental agents
wishing to use CDS/CDNSKEY records for initial DS enrollment
authentication protocol described here.

Section 3 of [RFC8078]

 are less secure than the method

 support the

SHOULD

In order to facilitate publication of signaling records for the purpose of DNSSEC bootstrapping
(see Section 4.1), the first bullet ("Location") of

Section 4.1 of [RFC7344]

 is removed.

3.  Signaling

This section describes the general mechanism by which a child DNS operator can publish an
authenticated signal about a child zone. Parental agents (or any other party) can then discover
and process the signal. Authenticity is ensured through standard DNSSEC validation.

3.1.  Chain of Trust

If a child DNS operator implements this specification, each signaling zone
validatable by the parental agent (i.e., have a valid publicly resolvable DNSSEC chain of trust).
This is typically achieved by securely delegating each signaling zone.

 be signed and be

MUST

For example, when publishing a signal that relates to a child zone with NS records
ns1.example.net and ns2.example.org, the child DNS operator needs to ensure that the
parental agent has a valid DNSSEC chain of trust for the zone(s) that are authoritative for the
signaling domains _signal.ns1.example.net and _signal.ns2.example.org.

3.2.  Signaling Names

To publish information about the child zone in an authenticated fashion, the child DNS operator
MUST

 publish one or more signaling records at a signaling name under each signaling domain.

Signaling records
signaling zone's key(s). The type and contents of these signaling records depend on the type of
signal.

 be accompanied by RRSIG records created with the corresponding

MUST

The signaling name identifies the child and the signaling type. It is identical to the child name
(with the final root label removed), prefixed with a label containing the signaling type.

Thomassen & Wisiol

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9615

DNSSEC Bootstrapping

July 2024

4.  Bootstrapping a DNSSEC Delegation

When the child zone's CDS/CDNSKEY RRsets are used for setting up initial trust, they need to be
authenticated. This is achieved by copublishing the child's CDS/CDNSKEY RRsets as an
authenticated signal as described in Section 3. The parent can discover and validate it, thus
transferring trust from the child DNS operator nameservers' chain of trust to the child zone.

This protocol is not intended for updating an existing DS RRset. For this purpose, the parental
agent can validate the child's CDS/CDNSKEY RRsets directly, using the chain of trust established
).
by the existing DS RRset (

Section 4 of [RFC7344]

4.1.  Signaling Consent to Act as the Child's Signer

To confirm its willingness to act as the child's delegated signer and authenticate the child's CDS/
CDNSKEY RRsets, the child DNS operator
name under each signaling domain, excluding those that would fall within the child domain
(Section 3.2). For simplicity, the child DNS operator
 also copublish the child's CDS/CDNSKEY
RRsets under signaling domains within the child domain, although those signaling domains are
not used for validation (Section 4.2).

 copublish them at the corresponding signaling

MUST

MAY

Unlike the CDS/CDNSKEY RRsets at the child's apex, a signaling RRset
corresponding signaling zone's key(s). Its contents
published at the child's apex.

MUST

MUST

 be signed with the

 be identical to the corresponding RRset

Existing use of CDS/CDNSKEY records was specified at the child apex only (
[RFC7344]
purpose of DNSSEC bootstrapping. To exclude the possibility of semantic collision, there
NOT

). This protocol extends the use of these record types to non-apex owner names for the

 be a zone cut at a signaling name.

Section 4.1 of

MUST

4.1.1.  Example

For the purposes of bootstrapping the child zone example.co.uk with NS records
ns1.example.net, ns2.example.org, and ns3.example.co.uk, the required signaling domains
are _signal.ns1.example.net and _signal.ns2.example.org.

In the zones containing these domains, the child DNS operator authenticates the CDS/CDNSKEY
RRsets found at the child's apex by copublishing them as CDS/CDNSKEY RRsets at the names:

_dsboot.example.co.uk._signal.ns1.example.net
_dsboot.example.co.uk._signal.ns2.example.org

These RRsets are signed with DNSSEC just like any other zone data.

Publication of signaling records under the in-domain name _signal.ns3.example.co.uk is not
required.

Thomassen & Wisiol

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9615

DNSSEC Bootstrapping

July 2024

4.2.  Validating CDS/CDNSKEY Records for DNSSEC Bootstrapping

To validate a child's CDS/CDNSKEY RRset for DNSSEC bootstrapping, the parental agent, knowing
both the child zone name and its NS hostnames,

 execute the following steps:

MUST

Step 1:

verify that the child has no DS records published at the parent and that at least one of its

nameservers is outside the child domain;

Step 2:

query the CDS/CDNSKEY RRset at the child zone apex directly from each of the

authoritative servers as determined by the delegation's (parent-side) NS RRset, without
caching;

Step 3:

query the CDS/CDNSKEY RRset located at the signaling name under each signaling
domain (except those falling within the child domain) using a trusted DNS resolver and
enforce DNSSEC validation;

Step 4:

check (separately by record type) that all RRsets retrieved in Steps 2 and 3 have equal

contents;

If the above steps succeed without error, the CDS/CDNSKEY RRsets are successfully verified, and
the parental agent can proceed with the publication of the DS RRset under the precautions
described in

Section 5 of [RFC8078]
.

The parental agent

MUST

 abort the procedure if an error condition occurs, in particular:

•

in Step 1: the child is already securely delegated or has in-domain nameservers only;

•

in Step 2: any failure during the retrieval of the CDS/CDNSKEY RRset located at the child apex
from any of the authoritative nameservers;

•

in Step 3: any failure to retrieve the CDS/CDNSKEY RRsets located at the signaling name
under any signaling domain, including failure of DNSSEC validation, or unauthenticated data
(AD bit not set);

•

in Step 4: inconsistent responses (for at least one of the types), including an RRset that is
empty in one of Steps 2 or 3, but non-empty in the other.

4.2.1.  Example

To verify the CDS/CDNSKEY RRsets for the child example.co.uk, the parental agent (assuming
that the child delegation's NS records are ns1.example.net, ns2.example.org, and
ns3.example.co.uk)

1.

checks that the child domain is not yet securely delegated;

2.

queries the CDS/CDNSKEY RRsets for example.co.uk directly from ns1.example.net,
ns2.example.org, and ns3.example.co.uk (without caching);

3.

queries and validates the CDS/CDNSKEY RRsets located at (see Section 3.2;
ns3.example.co.uk is ignored because it is in-domain)

Thomassen & Wisiol

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9615

DNSSEC Bootstrapping

July 2024

_dsboot.example.co.uk._signal.ns1.example.net
_dsboot.example.co.uk._signal.ns2.example.org

4.

checks that the CDS/CDNSKEY RRsets retrieved in Steps 2 and 3 agree across responses.

If all of these steps succeed, the parental agent can proceed to publish a DS RRset as indicated by
the validated CDS/CDNSKEY RRset.

As in-domain signaling names do not have a chain of trust at bootstrapping time, the parental
agent does not consider them during validation. Consequently, if all NS hostnames are in-
domain, validation cannot be completed and DS records are not published.

4.3.  Triggers

Parental agents
conditions is fulfilled:

SHOULD

 trigger the procedure described in Section 4.2 once one of the following

•

The parental agent receives a new or updated NS RRset for a child;

•

The parental agent receives a notification indicating that the child wishes to have its CDS/
CDNSKEY RRset processed;

•

The parental agent encounters a signaling record during a proactive, opportunistic scan (e.g.,
daily queries of signaling records for some or all of its delegations);

•

The parental agent encounters a signaling record during an NSEC walk or when parsing a
signaling zone (e.g., when made available via AXFR by the child DNS operator);

•

Any other condition deemed appropriate by local policy.

Timer-based trigger mechanisms (such as scans) exhibit undesirable properties with respect to
processing delay and scaling; on-demand triggers (like notifications) are preferable. Whenever
possible, child DNS operators and parental agents are thus encouraged to use them, reducing
both delays and the amount of scanning traffic.

Most types of discovery (such as daily scans of delegations) are based directly on the delegation's
NS RRset. In this case, these NS names can be used as is by the bootstrapping algorithm (Section
4.2) for querying signaling records.

Some discovery methods, however, do not imply reliable knowledge of the delegation's NS RRset.
For example, when discovering signaling names by performing an NSEC walk or zone transfer of
 assume that a nameserver under whose signaling
a signaling zone, the parental agent
domain a signaling record appears is actually authoritative for the corresponding child.

MUST NOT

Instead, whenever a list of "bootstrappable domains" is obtained by means other than directly
from the parent, the parental agent
nameserver hostname seen during discovery, and ensure that signaling-record queries are only
made against the proper set of nameservers as listed in the child's delegation from the parent.

 ascertain that the delegation actually contains the

MUST

Thomassen & Wisiol

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9615

DNSSEC Bootstrapping

July 2024

4.4.  Limitations

As a consequence of Step 3 in Section 4.2, DS bootstrapping does not work for fully in-domain
delegations, as no preexisting chain of trust to the child domain is available during
bootstrapping. (As a workaround, one can add an out-of-domain nameserver to the initial NS
RRset and remove it once bootstrapping is completed. Automation for this is available via CSYNC
records, see

[RFC7477]

.)

Fully qualified signaling names must by valid DNS names. Label count and length requirements
for DNS names (
long child domain names or NS hostnames.

) imply that the protocol does not work for unusually

Section 3.1 of [RFC1035]

5.  Operational Recommendations

5.1.  Child DNS Operator

It is possible to add CDS/CDNSKEY records and corresponding signaling records to a zone without
the domain owner's explicit knowledge. To spare domain owners from being caught off guard by
the ensuing DS changes, child DNS operators following this practice are advised to make that
transparent, such as by informing the domain owner during zone creation (e.g., in a GUI) or by
notifying them via email.

When transferring a zone to another DNS operator, the old and new child DNS operators need to
cooperate to achieve a smooth transition, e.g., by using the multi-signer protocols described in
[RFC8901]
and have the transfer performed insecurely (see

. If all else fails, the domain owner might have to request the removal of all DS records
[INSEC]

).

SHOULD

 be delegated as standalone zones, so that the signaling zone's apex

Signaling domains
coincides with the signaling domain (such as _signal.ns1.example.net). While it is permissible
for the signaling domain to be contained in a signaling zone of fewer labels (such as
example.net), a zone cut ensures that bootstrapping activities do not require modifications of
the zone containing the nameserver hostname.

Once a child DNS operator determines that specific signaling record sets have been processed
(e.g., by seeing the result in the parent zone), they are advised to remove them. This will reduce
the size of the signaling zone and facilitate more efficient bulk processing (such as via zone
transfers).

5.2.  Parental Agent

In order to ensure timely DNSSEC bootstrapping of insecure domains, stalemate situations due to
mismatch of stale cached records (Step 4 of Section 4.2) need to be avoided. It is thus
RECOMMENDED
resolver cache, or that some other method for retrieving fresh data from authoritative servers be
used.

 that queries into signaling domains be performed with an (initially) empty

Thomassen & Wisiol

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9615

DNSSEC Bootstrapping

July 2024

It is also
for signaling records to guard against certain attacks (see Section 6).

 that QNAME minimization

RECOMMENDED

[RFC9156]

 be used when resolving queries

6.  Security Considerations

Section 3 of [RFC8078]

The DNSSEC bootstrapping method introduced in this document is based on the approaches
described in
security level is therefore strictly higher than that of existing approaches described in that
document (e.g., "Accept after Delay"). Apart from this general improvement, the same Security
Considerations apply as in

, but adds authentication to the CDS/CDNSKEY concept. Its

[RFC8078]
.

The level of rigor in Section 4.2 is needed to prevent publication of an ill-conceived DS RRset
(authorized only under a subset of NS hostnames). This ensures, for example, that an operator in
a multi-homed setup cannot enable DNSSEC unless all other operators agree.

In any case, as the child DNS operator has authoritative knowledge of the child's CDS/CDNSKEY
records, it can readily detect fraudulent provisioning of DS records.

In order to prevent the parents of nameserver hostnames from becoming a single point of failure
for a delegation (both in terms of resolution availability and for the trust model of this protocol),
diversifying the path from the root to the child's nameserver hostnames is advisable. For
example, different and independently operated TLDs may be used for each one.

[RFC9156]

If QNAME minimization
parent of a signaling domain will see those CDS/CDNSKEY queries and could respond with an
authoritative answer signed with its own key, instead of sending the referral. Enabling QNAME
minimization reduces the attack surface for such forgery.

 is not used when querying for signaling records, an upstream

7.  IANA Considerations

IANA has added the following entries to the "Underscored and Globally Scoped DNS Node
Names" registry

[RFC8552]
:

RR Type

_NODE NAME

Reference

CDS

_signal

RFC 9615

CDNSKEY

_signal

RFC 9615

Table 1

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

[RFC1035]

Thomassen & Wisiol

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9615

DNSSEC Bootstrapping

July 2024

Mockapetris, P. "Domain names - implementation and specification" STD 13
,
RFC 1035 DOI 10.17487/RFC1035
info/rfc1035>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, November 1987,

,

,

.

,

[RFC2119]

[RFC7344]

[RFC7477]

[RFC8078]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8552]

[RFC9156]

[RFC9499]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Kumari, W. Gudmundsson, O.
Trust Maintenance" RFC 7344 DOI 10.17487/RFC7344
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7344>

, and
,

G. Barwood "Automating DNSSEC Delegation
<https://

, September 2014,

,

,

.

Hardaker, W. "Child-to-Parent Synchronization in DNS" RFC 7477 DOI
10.17487/RFC7477

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7477>

, March 2015,

,

,

,

.

Gudmundsson, O.
CDS/CDNSKEY" RFC 8078 DOI 10.17487/RFC8078
editor.org/info/rfc8078>
.

 and

,

,

P. Wouters "Managing DS Records from the Parent via

,

, March 2017,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Crocker, D. "Scoped Interpretation of DNS Resource Records through
"Underscored" Naming of Attribute Leaves" BCP 222 RFC 8552 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8552

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8552>
.

, March 2019,

,

,

Bortzmeyer, S. Dolmans, R.
Improve Privacy" RFC 9156 DOI 10.17487/RFC9156
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9156>

, and
,

,

,

.

P. Hoffman "DNS Query Name Minimisation to

, November 2021,

<https://

Hoffman, P.
10.17487/RFC9499

 and

K. Fujiwara "DNS Terminology" BCP 219 RFC 9499 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9499>

, March 2024,

,

,

,

,

.

8.2.  Informative References

[BCP237]

Best Current Practice 237,
At the time of writing, this BCP comprises the following:

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/bcp237>
.

Hoffman, P. "DNS Security Extensions (DNSSEC)" BCP 237 RFC 9364 DOI
10.17487/RFC9364

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9364>

, February 2023,

,

,

,

,

.

[INSEC]

,

Hardaker, W. "Intentionally Temporarily Degraded or Insecure" Work in
Progress Internet-Draft, draft-hardaker-dnsop-intentionally-temporary-insec-01
,
,
21 October 2021,
intentionally-temporary-insec-01>

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-hardaker-dnsop-

,

.

Thomassen & Wisiol

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9615

DNSSEC Bootstrapping

July 2024

[RFC8901]

,

Huque, S. Aras, P. Dickinson, J. Vcelak, J.
Models" RFC 8901 DOI 10.17487/RFC8901
editor.org/info/rfc8901>

,
,

,

.

,

D. Blacka "Multi-Signer DNSSEC

,

, and
, September 2020,

<https://www.rfc-

Acknowledgements

,

Brian Dickson Ondřej Caletka John R. Levine Christian Elmerot Oli Schacher Donald

Thanks to
Eastlake Libor Peltan Warren Kumari Scott Rose Linda Dunbar Tim Wicinski Paul Wouters
,
Paul Hoffman Peter Yee Benson Muite Roman Danyliw Éric Vyncke
reviewing draft proposals and offering comments and suggestions.

,
Joe Abley

, and

 for

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Thanks also to

Steve Crocker Hugo Salgado
,

, and

Ulrich Wisser

 for early-stage brainstorming.

Authors' Addresses

Peter Thomassen
deSEC, Secure Systems Engineering (SSE)
Berlin
Germany
Email:

peter@desec.io

Nils Wisiol
deSEC, Technische Universität Berlin
Berlin
Germany
Email:

nils@desec.io

Thomassen & Wisiol

Standards Track

Page 12

