Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9833
Standards Track
September 2025
2070-1721

M. Boucadair, Ed.
Orange

R. Roberts, Ed.
Juniper

O. Gonzalez de Dios
Telefonica

S. Barguil
Nokia

B. Wu
Huawei Technologies

RFC 9833
A Common YANG Data Model for Attachment
Circuits

Abstract

The document specifies a common attachment circuits (ACs) YANG data model, which is
designed to be reusable by other models. This design is meant to ensure consistent AC structures
among models that manipulate ACs. For example, this common model can be reused by service
models to expose ACs as a service, service models that require binding a service to a set of ACs,
network and device models to provision ACs, etc.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9833
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Conventions and Definitions

3.  Relationship to Other AC Data Models

4.  Description of the AC Common YANG Module

4.1.  Features

4.2.  Identities

4.3.  Reusable Groupings

5.  Common Attachment Circuit YANG Module

6.  Security Considerations

7.  IANA Considerations

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

8.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Full Tree

Acknowledgments

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

2

4

5

6

6

6

7

15

44

45

45

45

47

50

55

55

55

Connectivity services are provided by networks to customers via dedicated terminating points
(e.g., Service Functions (SFs), Customer Premises Equipment (CPE), Autonomous System Border
Routers (ASBRs), data center gateways, or Internet Exchange Points (IXPs)). A connectivity
service ensures data transfer from (or destined to) a given terminating point to (or originating
from) other terminating points. Objectives for such a connectivity service may be negotiated and
agreed upon between a customer and a network provider.

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

For that data transfer to take place within the provider network, it is assumed that adequate
setup is provisioned over the links connecting the customer's terminating points to the provider
network (typically, a Provider Edge (PE)), thereby enabling successful data exchange. This
necessary provisioning is referred to in this document as an "attachment circuit" (AC), while the
underlying link is referred to as the "bearer".

When a customer requests a new service, that service can be associated with existing ACs or may
require the instantiation of new ACs. Whether these ACs are dedicated to a particular service or
shared among multiple services depends on the specific deployment.

[RFC9408]

. CEs can be dedicated to a single service (e.g., Layer 3 Virtual

Examples of ACs are depicted in Figure 1. A Customer Edge (CE) may be realized as a physical
node or a logical entity. From the network's perspective, a CE is treated as a peer Service
Attachment Point (SAP)
Private Network (VPN) or Layer 2 VPN) or can host multiple services (e.g., SFs
). A
single AC, as viewed by the network provider, may be bound to one or more peer SAPs (e.g.,
, multiple CEs can attach to a PE over
"CE1" and "CE2"). For instance, as discussed in
the same AC. This approach is typically deployed when the Layer 2 infrastructure between the
CE and the network supports a multipoint service. A single CE may also terminate multiple ACs
(e.g., "CE3" and "CE4"), which may be carried over the same or distinct bearers.

[RFC7665]

[RFC4364]

Figure 1: Examples of ACs

This document specifies a common module ("ietf-ac-common") for ACs (Section 5). The module is
designed to be reusable by other models, thereby ensuring consistent AC structures among
modules that manipulate ACs. For example, the common module can be reused by service
models to expose AC as a Service (ACaaS) (e.g.,
binding a service to a set of ACs (e.g., RFC 9543 Network Slice Service
used by network models to provision ACs (e.g.,

[YANG-NSS]
) and device models, among others.

) or by service models that require

)). It can also be

[RFC9834]

[RFC9835]

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

(b1)ACCE1PEACCE3(b2)ACPENetwork|(b3)ACCE2PEACCE4(b3)PEAC(bx)=bearerIdxRFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

The common AC module eases data inheritance between modules (e.g., from service to network
models as per

[RFC8969]

).

The YANG data model in this document conforms to the Network Management Datastore
Architecture (NMDA) defined in

[RFC8342]
.

2.  Conventions and Definitions

The meanings of the symbols in the YANG tree diagrams are defined in

[RFC8340]
.

LxSM refers to both the L2VPN Service Model (L2SM)
(L3SM)

[RFC8299]
.

[RFC8466]

 and the L3VPN Service Model

LxNM refers to both the L2VPN Network Model (L2NM)
Model (L3NM)

[RFC9182]
.

[RFC9291]

 and the L3VPN Network

This document uses the following term:

Bearer:

A physical or logical link that connects a CE (or site) to a provider network.

A bearer can be a wireless or wired link. One or multiple technologies can be used to build a
bearer. The bearer type can be specified by a customer.

The operator allocates a unique bearer reference to identify a bearer within its network (e.g.,
customer line identifier). Such a reference can be retrieved by a customer and then used in
subsequent service placement requests to unambiguously identify where a service is to be
bound.

The concept of bearer can be generalized to refer to the required underlying connection for
the provisioning of an AC.

One or multiple ACs may be hosted over the same bearer (e.g., multiple Virtual Local Area
Networks (VLANs) on the same bearer that is provided by a physical link).

The names of data nodes are prefixed using the prefix associated with the corresponding
imported YANG module as shown in Table 1.

Prefix

Module

Reference

inet

ietf-inet-types

Section 4 of [RFC6991]

key-chain

ietf-key-chain

[RFC8177]

nacm

ietf-netconf-acm

[RFC8341]

vpn-common

ietf-vpn-common

[RFC9181]

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

Prefix

Module

Reference

yang

ietf-yang-types

Section 3 of [RFC6991]

Table 1: Modules and Their Associated Prefixes

3.  Relationship to Other AC Data Models

Figure 2 depicts the relationship between the various AC data models:

•

"ietf-ac-common" (Section 5)

•

"ietf-bearer-svc" (

Section 6.1 of [RFC9834]
)

•

"ietf-ac-svc" (

Section 6.2 of [RFC9834]
)

•

"ietf-ac-ntw"

[RFC9835]

•

"ietf-ac-glue"

[RFC9836]

Figure 2: AC Data Models

The "ietf-ac-common" module is imported by the "ietf-bearer-svc", "ietf-ac-svc", and "ietf-ac-ntw"
modules. Bearers managed using the "ietf-bearer-svc" module may be referenced by service ACs
managed using the "ietf-ac-svc" module. Similarly, a bearer managed using the "ietf-bearer-svc"
module may list the set of ACs that use that bearer. To facilitate correlation between an AC
service request and the actual AC provisioned in the network, "ietf-ac-ntw" leverages the AC
references exposed by the "ietf-ac-svc" module. Furthermore, to bind Layer 2 VPN or Layer 3 VPN
services with ACs, the "ietf-ac-glue" module augments the LxSM and LxNM with AC service
references exposed by the "ietf-ac-svc" module and AC network references exposed by the "ietf-
ac-ntw" module.

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

ietf-ac-commonietf-ac-svcietf-bearer-svcietf-ac-ntwietf-ac-glueXY:XimportsYRFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

4.  Description of the AC Common YANG Module

The full tree diagram of the module is provided in Appendix A. Subtrees are provided in the
following subsections for the reader's convenience.

4.1.  Features

The module defines the following features:

'layer2-ac':

Used to indicate support of ACs with Layer 2 properties.

'layer3-ac':

Used to indicate support of ACs with Layer 3 properties.

'server-assigned-reference':

Used to indicate support of server-generated references to access
relevant resources. Typically, a server can be a network controller or a router in a provider
network.

For example, a bearer request is first created using a name that is assigned by the client, but
if this feature is supported, the request will also include a server-generated reference. That
reference can be used when requesting the creation of an AC over the existing bearer.

4.2.  Identities

The module defines a set of identities, including the following:

'address-allocation-type':

Used to specify the IP address allocation type in an AC. For example,
this identity is used to indicate whether the provider network provides DHCP service, DHCP
relay, or static addressing. Note that for the IPv6 case, Stateless Address Autoconfiguration
(SLAAC)

 can be used.

[RFC4862]

'local-defined-next-hop':

Used to specify next-hop actions. For example, this identity can be
used to indicate an action to discard traffic for a given destination or treat traffic towards
addresses within the specified next-hop prefix as though they are connected to a local link.

'l2-tunnel-type':

Used to control the Layer 2 tunnel selection for an AC. The current version

supports indicating pseudowire, Virtual Private LAN Service (VPLS), and Virtual eXtensible
Local Area Network (VXLAN).

'l3-tunnel-type':
are: IP-in-IP
[RFC1702][RFC7676]
.

[RFC2003]

Used to control the Layer 3 tunnel selection for an AC. Examples of such type

, IPsec

[RFC4301]

, and Generic Routing Encapsulation (GRE)

[RFC1701]

'precedence-type':

Used to indicate the redundancy type when requesting ACs. For example,

this identity can be used to tag primary and secondary ACs.

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

'role':

Used to indicate the type of an AC: User-to-Network Interface (UNI), Network-to-Network

Interface (NNI), or public NNI.

The reader may refer to
,
discussions regarding the use of UNI and NNI reference points.

[MEF6] [MEF17] [RFC6004]

, or

[RFC6215]

,

 for examples of

New administrative status types:

In addition to the status types already defined in

[RFC9181]
,

this document defines:

•

'awaiting-validation' to report that a request is pending an administrator approval.

•

'awaiting-processing' to report that a request was approved and validated but is awaiting
more processing before activation.

•

'admin-prohibited' to report that a request cannot be handled because of administrative
policies.

•

'rejected' to report that a request was rejected due to reasons not covered by the other
status types.

'bgp-role':

Used to indicate the BGP role when establishing a BGP session per

[RFC9234]
.

4.3.  Reusable Groupings

The module also defines a set of reusable groupings, including the following:

'service-status' (Figure 3):

Controls the administrative service status and reports the

operational service status.

'ac-profile-cfg' (Figure 3):

A grouping with a set of valid provider profile identifiers. The

following profiles are supported:

'encryption-profile-identifier':

Refers to a set of policies related to the encryption setup that

can be applied when provisioning an AC.

'qos-profile-identifier':

Refers to a set of policies, such as classification, marking, and actions

(e.g.,

[RFC3644]

).

'failure-detection-profile-identifier':

Refers to a set of failure detection policies (e.g.,

Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD) policies
building an AC.

[RFC5880]

) that can be invoked when

'forwarding-profile-identifier':

Refers to the policies that apply to the forwarding of packets
conveyed within an AC. Such policies may consist, for example, of applying Access Control
Lists (ACLs).

'routing-profile-identifier':

Refers to a set of routing policies that will be invoked (e.g., BGP

policies) when building an AC.

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

'op-instructions' (Figure 3):

Defines a set of parameters to specify basic scheduling instructions
and report related events for a service request (e.g., AC or bearer) ('service-status'). Advanced
[YANG-SCHEDULE]
.
scheduling groupings are defined in

  grouping service-status:
    +-- status
       +-- admin-status
       |  +-- status?        identityref
       |  +--ro last-change?   yang:date-and-time
       +--ro oper-status
          +--ro status?        identityref
          +--ro last-change?   yang:date-and-time
  grouping ac-profile-cfg:
    +-- valid-provider-identifiers
       +-- encryption-profile-identifier* [id]
       |  +-- id   string
       +-- qos-profile-identifier* [id]
       |  +-- id   string
       +-- failure-detection-profile-identifier* [id]
       |  +-- id   string
       +-- forwarding-profile-identifier* [id]
       |  +-- id   string
       +-- routing-profile-identifier* [id]
          +-- id   string
  grouping op-instructions:
    +-- requested-start?   yang:date-and-time
    +-- requested-stop?    yang:date-and-time
    +--ro actual-start?      yang:date-and-time
    +--ro actual-stop?       yang:date-and-time

Figure 3: Service Status, Profiles, and Operational Instructions Groupings

Layer 2 encapsulations (Figure 4):

Groupings for the following encapsulation schemes are

supported: dot1Q, QinQ, and priority-tagged.

Layer 2 tunnel services (Figure 4):

These groupings are used to define Layer 2 tunnel services
that may be needed for the activation of an AC. Examples of supported Layer 2 services are
the pseudowire (

Section 6.1 of [RFC8077]

), VPLS, or VXLAN

[RFC7348]
.

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

  grouping dot1q:
    +-- tag-type?   identityref
    +-- cvlan-id?   uint16
  grouping priority-tagged:
    +-- tag-type?   identityref
  grouping qinq:
    +-- tag-type?   identityref
    +-- svlan-id?   uint16
    +-- cvlan-id?   uint16
  grouping pseudowire:
    +-- vcid?      uint32
    +-- far-end?   union
  grouping vpls:
    +-- vcid?      uint32
    +-- far-end*   union
  grouping vxlan:
    +-- vni-id?            uint32
    +-- peer-mode?         identityref
    +-- peer-ip-address*   inet:ip-address
  grouping l2-tunnel-service:
    +-- type?         identityref
    +-- pseudowire
    |  +-- vcid?      uint32
    |  +-- far-end?   union
    +-- vpls
    |  +-- vcid?      uint32
    |  +-- far-end*   union
    +-- vxlan
       +-- vni-id?            uint32
       +-- peer-mode?         identityref
       +-- peer-ip-address*   inet:ip-address

Figure 4: Layer 2 Connection Groupings

Layer 3 address allocation (Figure 5):

Defines both IPv4 and IPv6 groupings to specify IP

address allocation over an AC. Both dynamic and static address schemes are supported.

For both IPv4 and IPv6, 'address-allocation-type' is used to indicate the IP address allocation
mode to activate. When 'address-allocation-type' is set to 'provider-dhcp', DHCP assignments
can be made locally or by an external DHCP server. Such behavior is controlled by setting
'dhcp-service-type'.

Note that if 'address-allocation-type' is set to 'slaac', the Prefix Information option of Router
Advertisements that will be issued for SLAAC purposes will carry the IPv6 prefix that is
determined by 'local-address' and 'prefix-length'.

IP connections (Figure 5):

Defines IPv4 and IPv6 groupings for managing Layer 3 connectivity

over an AC. Both basic and more elaborated IP connection groupings are supported.

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

grouping ipv4-allocation-type:
  +-- prefix-length?             uint8
  +-- address-allocation-type?   identityref
grouping ipv6-allocation-type:
  +-- prefix-length?             uint8
  +-- address-allocation-type?   identityref
grouping ipv4-connection-basic:
  +-- prefix-length?                       uint8
  +-- address-allocation-type?             identityref
  +-- (allocation-type)?
     +--:(dynamic)
        +-- (provider-dhcp)?
        |  +--:(dhcp-service-type)
        |     +-- dhcp-service-type?       enumeration
        +-- (dhcp-relay)?
           +--:(customer-dhcp-servers)
              +-- customer-dhcp-servers
                 +-- server-ip-address*   inet:ipv4-address
grouping ipv6-connection-basic:
  +-- prefix-length?                       uint8
  +-- address-allocation-type?             identityref
  +-- (allocation-type)?
     +--:(dynamic)
        +-- (provider-dhcp)?
        |  +--:(dhcp-service-type)
        |     +-- dhcp-service-type?       enumeration
        +-- (dhcp-relay)?
           +--:(customer-dhcp-servers)
              +-- customer-dhcp-servers
                 +-- server-ip-address*   inet:ipv6-address
grouping ipv4-connection:
  +-- local-address?                           inet:ipv4-address
  +-- virtual-address?                         inet:ipv4-address
  +-- prefix-length?                           uint8
  +-- address-allocation-type?                 identityref
  +-- (allocation-type)?
     +--:(dynamic)
     |  +-- (address-assign)?
     |  |  +--:(number)
     |  |  |  +-- number-of-dynamic-address?   uint16
     |  |  +--:(explicit)
     |  |     +-- customer-addresses
     |  |        +-- address-pool* [pool-id]
     |  |           +-- pool-id          string
     |  |           +-- start-address    inet:ipv4-address
     |  |           +-- end-address?     inet:ipv4-address
     |  +-- (provider-dhcp)?
     |  |  +--:(dhcp-service-type)
     |  |     +-- dhcp-service-type?           enumeration
     |  +-- (dhcp-relay)?
     |     +--:(customer-dhcp-servers)
     |        +-- customer-dhcp-servers
     |           +-- server-ip-address*   inet:ipv4-address
     +--:(static-addresses)
        +-- address* [address-id]
           +-- address-id          string
           +-- customer-address?   inet:ipv4-address

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

grouping ipv6-connection:
  +-- local-address?                           inet:ipv6-address
  +-- virtual-address?                         inet:ipv6-address
  +-- prefix-length?                           uint8
  +-- address-allocation-type?                 identityref
  +-- (allocation-type)?
     +--:(dynamic)
     |  +-- (address-assign)?
     |  |  +--:(number)
     |  |  |  +-- number-of-dynamic-address?   uint16
     |  |  +--:(explicit)
     |  |     +-- customer-addresses
     |  |        +-- address-pool* [pool-id]
     |  |           +-- pool-id          string
     |  |           +-- start-address    inet:ipv6-address
     |  |           +-- end-address?     inet:ipv6-address
     |  +-- (provider-dhcp)?
     |  |  +--:(dhcp-service-type)
     |  |     +-- dhcp-service-type?           enumeration
     |  +-- (dhcp-relay)?
     |     +--:(customer-dhcp-servers)
     |        +-- customer-dhcp-servers
     |           +-- server-ip-address*   inet:ipv6-address
     +--:(static-addresses)
        +-- address* [address-id]
           +-- address-id          string
           +-- customer-address?   inet:ipv6-address

Figure 5: Layer 3 Connection Groupings

Routing parameters & Operations, Administration, and Maintenance (OAM) (Figure 6):
addition to static routing, the module supports the following routing protocols: BGP
[RFC4271]
, and RIP
, OSPF
[RFC2453]
. For all supported routing protocols, 'address-family' indicates whether IPv4, IPv6,
or both address families are to be activated. For example, this parameter is used to determine
whether RIPv2
More details about supported routing groupings are provided hereafter:

, RIP Next Generation (RIPng), or both are to be enabled

[ISO10589][RFC1195][RFC5308]

[RFC4577] [RFC6565]

[RFC2080]
.

[RFC2453]

, IS-IS

In

Authentication:

These groupings include the required information to manage the

authentication of OSPF, IS-IS, BGP, and RIP. The groupings support local specification of
authentication keys and the associated authentication algorithm to accommodate legacy
implementations that do not support key chains

[RFC8177]
.

Note that this version of the common AC model covers authentication options that are
common to both OSPFv2
[RFC4552]
.
support

; as such, the model does not

 and OSPFv3

[RFC4577]

[RFC6565]

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

[RFC9182]

, this version of the common AC model assumes that parameters

Similar to
specific to the TCP Authentication Option (TCP-AO) are preconfigured as part of the key
chain that is referenced in the model. No assumption is made about how such a key chain
is preconfigured. However, the structure of the key chain should cover data nodes beyond
those in

, mainly SendID and RecvID (

Section 3.1 of [RFC5925]

[RFC8177]

).

BGP peer groups ('bgp-peer-group-without-name' and 'bgp-peer-group-with-name'):
a set of parameters to identify a BGP peer group. Such a group can be defined by
providing a local Autonomous System Number (ASN), a customer's ASN, and the address
families to be activated for this group. BGP peer groups can be identified by a name ('bgp-
peer-group-with-name').

Includes

Basic OSPF and IS-IS parameters ('ospf-basic' and 'isis-basic'):

These groupings include the

minimal set of routing configuration that is required for the activation of OSPF and IS-IS.

Static routing:

Parameters to configure an entry or a list of IP static routing entries.

The 'redundancy-group' grouping lists the groups to which an AC belongs
. For
example, the 'group-id' is used to associate redundancy or protection constraints of ACs.

[RFC9181]

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

  grouping bgp-authentication:
    +-- authentication
       +-- enabled?           boolean
       +-- keying-material
          +-- (option)?
             +--:(ao)
             |  +-- enable-ao?          boolean
             |  +-- ao-keychain?        key-chain:key-chain-ref
             +--:(md5)
             |  +-- md5-keychain?       key-chain:key-chain-ref
             +--:(explicit)
                +-- key-id?             uint32
                +-- key?                string
                +-- crypto-algorithm?   identityref
  grouping ospf-authentication:
    +-- authentication
       +-- enabled?           boolean
       +-- keying-material
          +-- (option)?
             +--:(auth-key-chain)
             |  +-- key-chain?          key-chain:key-chain-ref
             +--:(auth-key-explicit)
                +-- key-id?             uint32
                +-- key?                string
                +-- crypto-algorithm?   identityref
  grouping isis-authentication:
    +-- authentication
       +-- enabled?           boolean
       +-- keying-material
          +-- (option)?
             +--:(auth-key-chain)
             |  +-- key-chain?          key-chain:key-chain-ref
             +--:(auth-key-explicit)
                +-- key-id?             uint32
                +-- key?                string
                +-- crypto-algorithm?   identityref
  grouping rip-authentication:
    +-- authentication
       +-- enabled?           boolean
       +-- keying-material
          +-- (option)?
             +--:(auth-key-chain)
             |  +-- key-chain?          key-chain:key-chain-ref
             +--:(auth-key-explicit)
                +-- key?                string
                +-- crypto-algorithm?   identityref
  grouping bgp-peer-group-without-name:
    +-- local-as?         inet:as-number
    +-- peer-as?          inet:as-number
    +-- address-family?   identityref
    +-- role?             identityref
  grouping bgp-peer-group-with-name:
    +-- name?             string
    +-- local-as?         inet:as-number
    +-- peer-as?          inet:as-number
    +-- address-family?   identityref
    +-- role?             identityref

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

  grouping ospf-basic:
    +-- address-family?   identityref
    +-- area-id           yang:dotted-quad
    +-- metric?           uint16
  grouping isis-basic:
    +-- address-family?   identityref
    +-- area-address      area-address
  grouping ipv4-static-rtg-entry:
    +-- lan?        inet:ipv4-prefix
    +-- lan-tag?    string
    +-- next-hop?   union
    +-- metric?     uint32
  grouping ipv4-static-rtg:
    +-- ipv4-lan-prefixes* [lan next-hop] {vpn-common:ipv4}?
       +-- lan         inet:ipv4-prefix
       +-- lan-tag?    string
       +-- next-hop    union
       +-- metric?     uint32
       +-- status
          +-- admin-status
          |  +-- status?        identityref
          |  +--ro last-change?   yang:date-and-time
          +--ro oper-status
             +--ro status?        identityref
             +--ro last-change?   yang:date-and-time
  grouping ipv6-static-rtg-entry:
    +-- lan?        inet:ipv6-prefix
    +-- lan-tag?    string
    +-- next-hop?   union
    +-- metric?     uint32
  grouping ipv6-static-rtg:
    +-- ipv6-lan-prefixes* [lan next-hop] {vpn-common:ipv6}?
       +-- lan         inet:ipv6-prefix
       +-- lan-tag?    string
       +-- next-hop    union
       +-- metric?     uint32
       +-- status
          +-- admin-status
          |  +-- status?        identityref
          |  +--ro last-change?   yang:date-and-time
          +--ro oper-status
             +--ro status?        identityref
             +--ro last-change?   yang:date-and-time
  grouping bfd:
    +-- holdtime?   uint32
  grouping redundancy-group:
    +-- group* [group-id]
       +-- group-id?     string
       +-- precedence?   identityref

Figure 6: Routing & OAM Groupings

Bandwidth parameters (Figure 7): Bandwidth parameters can be represented using the
Committed Information Rate (CIR), the Excess Information Rate (EIR), or the Peak
Information Rate (PIR).

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

These parameters can be provided per bandwidth type. Type values are taken from
[RFC9181]

. For example, the following values can be used:

'bw-per-cos':

The bandwidth is per Class of Service (CoS).

'bw-per-site':

The bandwidth is for all ACs that belong to the same site.

  grouping bandwidth-parameters:
    +-- cir?   uint64
    +-- cbs?   uint64
    +-- eir?   uint64
    +-- ebs?   uint64
    +-- pir?   uint64
    +-- pbs?   uint64
  grouping bandwidth-per-type:
    +-- bandwidth* [bw-type]
       +-- bw-type      identityref
       +-- (type)?
          +--:(per-cos)
          |  +-- cos* [cos-id]
          |     +-- cos-id    uint8
          |     +-- cir?      uint64
          |     +-- cbs?      uint64
          |     +-- eir?      uint64
          |     +-- ebs?      uint64
          |     +-- pir?      uint64
          |     +-- pbs?      uint64
          +--:(other)
             +-- cir?   uint64
             +-- cbs?   uint64
             +-- eir?   uint64
             +-- ebs?   uint64
             +-- pir?   uint64
             +-- pbs?   uint64

Figure 7: Bandwidth Groupings

5.  Common Attachment Circuit YANG Module

This module uses types defined in

[RFC6991] [RFC8177] [RFC9181]

,

,

, and

[IEEE_802.1Q]
.

<CODE BEGINS> file "ietf-ac-common@2025-09-29.yang"

module ietf-ac-common {
  yang-version 1.1;
  namespace "urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-ac-common";
  prefix ac-common;

  import ietf-vpn-common {
    prefix vpn-common;
    reference
      "RFC 9181: A Common YANG Data Model for Layer 2 and Layer 3

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

                 VPNs";
  }
  import ietf-netconf-acm {
    prefix nacm;
    reference
      "RFC 8341: Network Configuration Access Control Model";
  }
  import ietf-inet-types {
    prefix inet;
    reference
      "RFC 6991: Common YANG Data Types, Section 4";
  }
  import ietf-yang-types {
    prefix yang;
    reference
      "RFC 6991: Common YANG Data Types, Section 3";
  }
  import ietf-key-chain {
    prefix key-chain;
    reference
      "RFC 8177: YANG Data Model for Key Chains";
  }

  organization
    "IETF OPSAWG (Operations and Management Area Working Group)";
  contact
    "WG Web:   <https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/opsawg/>
     WG List:  <mailto:opsawg@ietf.org>

     Editor:   Mohamed Boucadair
               <mailto:mohamed.boucadair@orange.com>
     Editor:   Richard Roberts
               <mailto:rroberts@juniper.net>
     Author:   Oscar Gonzalez de Dios
               <mailto:oscar.gonzalezdedios@telefonica.com>
     Author:   Samier Barguil
               <mailto:ssamier.barguil_giraldo@nokia.com>
     Author:   Bo Wu
               <mailto:lana.wubo@huawei.com>";
  description
    "This YANG module defines a common attachment circuit (AC)
     YANG module with a set of reusable features, types,
     identities, and groupings.

     Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as
     authors of the code.  All rights reserved.

     Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or
     without modification, is permitted pursuant to, and subject
     to the license terms contained in, the Revised BSD License
     set forth in Section 4.c of the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions
     Relating to IETF Documents
     (https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info).

     This version of this YANG module is part of RFC 9833; see the
     RFC itself for full legal notices.";

  revision 2025-09-29 {

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

    description
      "Initial revision.";
    reference
      "RFC 9833: A Common YANG Data Model for Attachment Circuits";
  }

  /****************************Features************************/

  feature layer2-ac {
    description
      "Indicates support of Layer 2 ACs.";
  }

  feature layer3-ac {
    description
      "Indicates support of Layer 3 ACs.";
  }

  feature server-assigned-reference {
    description
      "Indicates support for server-generated references and use
       of such references to access related resources.";
  }

  /****************************Identities************************/
  // IP address allocation types

  identity address-allocation-type {
    description
      "Base identity for address allocation type on the AC.";
  }

  identity provider-dhcp {
    base address-allocation-type;
    description
      "The provider's network provides a DHCP service to the
       customer.";
  }

  identity provider-dhcp-relay {
    base address-allocation-type;
    description
      "The provider's network provides a DHCP relay service to the
       customer.";
  }

  identity provider-dhcp-slaac {
    if-feature "vpn-common:ipv6";
    base address-allocation-type;
    description
      "The provider's network provides a DHCP service to the customer
       as well as IPv6 Stateless Address Autoconfiguration (SLAAC).";
    reference
      "RFC 4862: IPv6 Stateless Address Autoconfiguration";
  }

  identity static-address {
    base address-allocation-type;

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

    description
      "The provider's network provides static IP addressing to the
       customer.";
  }

  identity slaac {
    if-feature "vpn-common:ipv6";
    base address-allocation-type;
    description
      "The provider's network uses IPv6 SLAAC to provide addressing
       to the customer.";
    reference
      "RFC 4862: IPv6 Stateless Address Autoconfiguration";
  }

  identity dynamic-infra {
    base address-allocation-type;
    description
      "The IP address is dynamically allocated by the hosting
       infrastructure.";
  }

  // next-hop actions

  identity local-defined-next-hop {
    description
      "Base identity of local defined next hops.";
  }

  identity discard {
    base local-defined-next-hop;
    description
      "Indicates an action to discard traffic for the corresponding
       destination.";
  }

  identity local-link {
    base local-defined-next-hop;
    description
      "Treat traffic towards addresses within the specified next-hop
       prefix as though they are connected to a local link.";
  }

  // Layer 2 tunnel types

  identity l2-tunnel-type {
    description
      "Base identity for Layer 2 tunnel selection for an AC.";
  }

  identity pseudowire {
    base l2-tunnel-type;
    description
      "Pseudowire tunnel termination for the AC.";
  }

  identity vpls {
    base l2-tunnel-type;

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

    description
      "Virtual Private LAN Service (VPLS) tunnel termination for
       the AC.";
  }

  identity vxlan {
    base l2-tunnel-type;
    description
      "Virtual eXtensible Local Area Network (VXLAN) tunnel
       termination for the AC.";
  }

  // Layer 3 tunnel types

  identity l3-tunnel-type {
    description
      "Base identity for Layer 3 tunnel selection for an AC.";
  }

  identity ip-in-ip {
    base l3-tunnel-type;
    description
      "IP-in-IP tunneling.";
    reference
      "RFC 2003: IP Encapsulation within IP";
  }

  identity ipsec {
    base l3-tunnel-type;
    description
      "IP Security (IPsec).";
    reference
      "RFC 4301: Security Architecture for the Internet
                 Protocol";
  }

  identity gre {
    base l3-tunnel-type;
    description
      "Generic Routing Encapsulation (GRE).";
    reference
      "RFC 1701: Generic Routing Encapsulation (GRE)
       RFC 1702: Generic Routing Encapsulation over IPv4 networks
       RFC 7676: IPv6 Support for Generic Routing Encapsulation
                 (GRE)";
  }

  // Tagging precedence

  identity precedence-type {
    description
      "Redundancy type.  Attachment to a network can be created
       with primary and secondary tagging.";
  }

  identity primary {
    base precedence-type;
    description

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

      "Identifies the main AC.";
  }

  identity secondary {
    base precedence-type;
    description
      "Identifies a secondary AC.";
  }

  // AC type

  identity role {
    description
      "Base identity for the network role of an AC.";
  }

  identity uni {
    base role;
    description
      "User-to-Network Interface (UNI).";
  }

  identity nni {
    base role;
    description
      "Network-to-Network Interface (NNI).";
  }

  identity public-nni {
    base role;
    description
      "Public peering.  This is typically set using a shared
       network, such as an Internet Exchange Point (IXP).";
  }

  // More Admin status types

  identity awaiting-validation {
    base vpn-common:administrative-status;
    description
      "This administrative status reflects that a request is
       pending an administrator approval.";
  }

  identity awaiting-processing {
    base vpn-common:administrative-status;
    description
      "This administrative status reflects that a request was
       approved and validated but is awaiting more processing
       before activation.";
  }

  identity admin-prohibited {
    base vpn-common:administrative-status;
    description
      "This administrative status reflects that a request cannot
       be handled because of administrative policies.";
  }

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

  identity rejected {
    base vpn-common:administrative-status;
    description
      "This administrative status reflects that a request was
       rejected because, e.g., there are no sufficient resources
       or other reasons not covered by the other status types.";
  }

  // BGP role

  identity bgp-role {
    description
      "Used to indicate the BGP role when establishing a BGP
       session.";
    reference
      "RFC 9234: Route Leak Prevention and Detection Using
                 Roles in UPDATE and OPEN Messages, Section 4";
  }

  identity provider {
    base bgp-role;
    description
      "The local AS is a transit provider of the remote AS.";
  }

  identity client {
    base bgp-role;
    description
      "The local AS is a transit customer of the remote AS.";
  }

  identity rs {
    base bgp-role;
    description
      "The local AS is a Route Server (RS).";
  }

  identity rs-client {
    base bgp-role;
    description
      "The local AS is a client of an RS, and the RS is the
       remote AS.";
  }

  identity peer {
    base bgp-role;
    description
      "The local and remote ASes have a peering relationship.";
  }

  /****************************Typedefs************************/

  typedef predefined-next-hop {
    type identityref {
      base local-defined-next-hop;
    }
    description

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

      "Predefined next-hop designation for locally generated
       routes.";
  }

  typedef area-address {
    type string {
      pattern '[0-9A-Fa-f]{2}(\.[0-9A-Fa-f]{4}){0,6}';
    }
    description
      "This type defines the area address format.";
  }

  /************************Reusable groupings********************/
  /**** Service Status ****/

  grouping service-status {
    description
      "Service status grouping.";
    container status {
      description
        "Service status.";
      container admin-status {
        description
          "Administrative service status.";
        leaf status {
          type identityref {
            base vpn-common:administrative-status;
          }
          description
            "Administrative service status.";
        }
        leaf last-change {
          type yang:date-and-time;
          config false;
          description
            "Indicates the actual date and time of the service status
             change.";
        }
      }
      container oper-status {
        config false;
        description
          "Operational service status.";
        uses vpn-common:oper-status-timestamp;
      }
    }
  }

  /**** A set of profiles ****/

  grouping ac-profile-cfg {
    description
      "Grouping for AC profile configuration.";
    container valid-provider-identifiers {
      description
        "Container for valid provider profile identifiers.
         The profiles only have significance within the service
         provider's administrative domain.";

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

      list encryption-profile-identifier {
        key "id";
        description
          "List of encryption profile identifiers.";
        leaf id {
          type string;
          description
            "Identification of the encryption profile to be used.";
        }
      }
      list qos-profile-identifier {
        key "id";
        description
          "List of QoS profile identifiers.";
        leaf id {
          type string;
          description
            "Identification of the QoS profile to be used.";
        }
      }
      list failure-detection-profile-identifier {
        key "id";
        description
          "List of BFD profile identifiers.";
        leaf id {
          type string;
          description
            "Identification of the failure detection (e.g., BFD)
             profile to be used.";
        }
      }
      list forwarding-profile-identifier {
        key "id";
        description
          "List of forwarding profile identifiers.";
        leaf id {
          type string;
          description
            "Identification of the forwarding profile to be used.";
        }
      }
      list routing-profile-identifier {
        key "id";
        description
          "List of routing profile identifiers.";
        leaf id {
          type string;
          description
            "Identification of the routing profile to be used by
             the routing protocols over an AC.";
        }
      }
      nacm:default-deny-write;
    }
  }

  /**** Operational instructions ****/

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

  grouping op-instructions {
    description
      "Scheduling instructions.";
    leaf requested-start {
      type yang:date-and-time;
      description
        "Indicates the requested date and time when the service is
         expected to be active.";
    }
    leaf requested-stop {
      type yang:date-and-time;
      description
        "Indicates the requested date and time when the service is
         expected to be disabled.";
    }
    leaf actual-start {
      type yang:date-and-time;
      config false;
      description
        "Indicates the actual date and time when the service
         actually was enabled.";
    }
    leaf actual-stop {
      type yang:date-and-time;
      config false;
      description
        "Indicates the actual date and time when the service
         actually was disabled.";
    }
  }

  /**** Layer 2 encapsulations ****/
  // Dot1q

  grouping dot1q {
    description
      "Defines a grouping for tagged interfaces.";
    leaf tag-type {
      type identityref {
        base vpn-common:tag-type;
      }
      description
        "Tag type.";
    }
    leaf cvlan-id {
      type uint16 {
        range "1..4094";
      }
      description
        "VLAN identifier.";
    }
  }

  // priority-tagged

  grouping priority-tagged {
    description
      "Priority tagged.";

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

    leaf tag-type {
      type identityref {
        base vpn-common:tag-type;
      }
      description
        "Tag type.";
    }
  }

  // QinQ

  grouping qinq {
    description
      "Includes QinQ parameters.";
    leaf tag-type {
      type identityref {
        base vpn-common:tag-type;
      }
      description
        "Tag type.";
    }
    leaf svlan-id {
      type uint16 {
        range "1..4094";
      }
      description
        "Service VLAN (S-VLAN) identifier.";
    }
    leaf cvlan-id {
      type uint16 {
        range "1..4094";
      }
      description
        "Customer VLAN (C-VLAN) identifier.";
    }
  }

  /**** Layer 2 tunnel services ****/
  // pseudowire (PW)

  grouping pseudowire {
    description
      "Includes pseudowire termination parameters.";
    leaf vcid {
      type uint32;
      description
        "Indicates a PW or virtual circuit (VC) identifier.";
    }
    leaf far-end {
      type union {
        type uint32;
        type inet:ip-address;
      }
      description
        "Neighbor reference.";
      reference
        "RFC 8077: Pseudowire Setup and Maintenance Using the Label
                   Distribution Protocol (LDP), Section 6.1";

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

    }
  }

  // VPLS

  grouping vpls {
    description
      "VPLS termination parameters.";
    leaf vcid {
      type uint32;
      description
        "VC identifier.";
    }
    leaf-list far-end {
      type union {
        type uint32;
        type inet:ip-address;
      }
      description
        "Neighbor reference.";
    }
  }

  // VXLAN

  grouping vxlan {
    description
      "VXLAN termination parameters.";
    leaf vni-id {
      type uint32;
      description
        "VXLAN Network Identifier (VNI).";
    }
    leaf peer-mode {
      type identityref {
        base vpn-common:vxlan-peer-mode;
      }
      description
        "Specifies the VXLAN access mode.  By default, the peer mode
         is set to 'static-mode'.";
    }
    leaf-list peer-ip-address {
      type inet:ip-address;
      description
        "List of a peer's IP addresses.";
    }
  }

  // Layer 2 Tunnel service

  grouping l2-tunnel-service {
    description
      "Defines a Layer 2 tunnel termination.";
    leaf type {
      type identityref {
        base l2-tunnel-type;
      }
      description

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

        "Selects the tunnel termination type for an AC.";
    }
    container pseudowire {
      when "derived-from-or-self(../type, 'ac-common:pseudowire')" {
        description
          "Only applies when the Layer 2 service type is
           'pseudowire'.";
      }
      description
        "Includes pseudowire termination parameters.";
      uses pseudowire;
    }
    container vpls {
      when "derived-from-or-self(../type, 'ac-common:vpls')" {
        description
          "Only applies when the Layer 2 service type is 'vpls'.";
      }
      description
        "VPLS termination parameters.";
      uses vpls;
    }
    container vxlan {
      when "derived-from-or-self(../type, 'ac-common:vxlan')" {
        description
          "Only applies when the Layer 2 service type is 'vxlan'.";
      }
      description
        "VXLAN termination parameters.";
      uses vxlan;
    }
  }

  /**** Layer 3 connection *****/
  // IPv4 allocation type

  grouping ipv4-allocation-type {
    description
      "IPv4-specific parameters.";
    leaf prefix-length {
      type uint8 {
        range "0..32";
      }
      description
        "Subnet prefix length expressed in bits.  It is applied to
         both local and customer addresses.";
    }
    leaf address-allocation-type {
      type identityref {
        base address-allocation-type;
      }
      must "not(derived-from-or-self(current(), 'ac-common:slaac') "
         + "or derived-from-or-self(current(), "
         + "'ac-common:provider-dhcp-slaac'))" {
        error-message "SLAAC is only applicable to IPv6.";
      }
      description
        "Defines how IPv4 addresses are allocated to the peer
         termination points.";

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

    }
  }

  // IPv6 allocation type

  grouping ipv6-allocation-type {
    description
      "IPv6-specific parameters.";
    leaf prefix-length {
      type uint8 {
        range "0..128";
      }
      description
        "Subnet prefix length expressed in bits.  It is applied to
         both local and customer addresses.";
    }
    leaf address-allocation-type {
      type identityref {
        base address-allocation-type;
      }
      description
        "Defines how IPv6 addresses are allocated to the peer
         termination points.";
    }
  }

  // Basic parameters for an IPv4 connection

  grouping ipv4-connection-basic {
    description
      "Basic set for IPv4-specific parameters for the connection.";
    uses ipv4-allocation-type;
    choice allocation-type {
      description
        "Choice of the IPv4 address allocation.";
      case dynamic {
        description
          "When the addresses are allocated by DHCP or other dynamic
           means local to the infrastructure.";
        choice provider-dhcp {
          description
            "Parameters related to DHCP-allocated addresses.  IP
             addresses are allocated by DHCP, which is provided by
             the operator.";
          leaf dhcp-service-type {
            type enumeration {
              enum server {
                description
                  "Local DHCP server.";
              }
              enum relay {
                description
                  "Local DHCP relay.  DHCP requests are relayed to
                   a provider's server.";
              }
            }
            description
              "Indicates the type of DHCP service to be enabled on

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

               an AC.";
          }
        }
        choice dhcp-relay {
          description
            "The DHCP relay is provided by the operator.";
          container customer-dhcp-servers {
            description
              "Container for a list of the customer's DHCP servers.";
            leaf-list server-ip-address {
              type inet:ipv4-address;
              description
                "IPv4 addresses of the customer's DHCP server.";
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }

  // Basic parameters for an IPv6 connection

  grouping ipv6-connection-basic {
    description
      "Basic set for IPv6-specific parameters for the connection.";
    uses ipv6-allocation-type;
    choice allocation-type {
      description
        "Choice of the IPv6 address allocation.";
      case dynamic {
        description
          "When the addresses are allocated by DHCP or other dynamic
           means local to the infrastructure.";
        choice provider-dhcp {
          description
            "Parameters related to DHCP-allocated addresses.
             IP addresses are allocated by DHCP, which is provided
             by the operator.";
          leaf dhcp-service-type {
            type enumeration {
              enum server {
                description
                  "Local DHCP server.";
              }
              enum relay {
                description
                  "Local DHCP relay.  DHCP requests are relayed to a
                   provider's server.";
              }
            }
            description
              "Indicates the type of DHCP service to be enabled on
               the AC.";
          }
        }
        choice dhcp-relay {
          description
            "The DHCP relay is provided by the operator.";

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

          container customer-dhcp-servers {
            description
              "Container for a list of the customer's DHCP servers.";
            leaf-list server-ip-address {
              type inet:ipv6-address;
              description
                "IPv6 addresses of the customer's DHCP server.";
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }

  // Full parameters for the IPv4 connection

  grouping ipv4-connection {
    description
      "IPv4-specific connection parameters.";
    leaf local-address {
      type inet:ipv4-address;
      description
        "The IP address used at the provider's interface.";
    }
    leaf virtual-address {
      type inet:ipv4-address;
      description
        "This address may be used for redundancy purposes.";
    }
    uses ipv4-allocation-type;
    choice allocation-type {
      description
        "Choice of the IPv4 address allocation.";
      case dynamic {
        description
          "When the addresses are allocated by DHCP or other
           dynamic means local to the infrastructure.";
        choice address-assign {
          description
            "A choice for how IPv4 addresses are assigned.";
          case number {
            leaf number-of-dynamic-address {
              type uint16;
              description
                "Specifies the number of IP addresses to be assigned
                 to the customer on the AC.";
            }
          }
          case explicit {
            container customer-addresses {
              description
                "Container for customer addresses to be allocated
                 using DHCP.";
              list address-pool {
                key "pool-id";
                description
                  "Describes IP addresses to be dynamically
                   allocated.

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

                   When only 'start-address' is present, it
                   represents a single address.

                   When both 'start-address' and 'end-address' are
                   specified, it implies a range inclusive of both
                   addresses.";
                leaf pool-id {
                  type string;
                  description
                    "A pool identifier for the address range from
                     'start-address' to 'end-address'.";
                }
                leaf start-address {
                  type inet:ipv4-address;
                  mandatory true;
                  description
                    "Indicates the first address in the pool.";
                }
                leaf end-address {
                  type inet:ipv4-address;
                  description
                    "Indicates the last address in the pool.";
                }
              }
            }
          }
        }
        choice provider-dhcp {
          description
            "Parameters related to DHCP-allocated addresses.  IP
             addresses are allocated by DHCP, which is provided by
             the operator.";
          leaf dhcp-service-type {
            type enumeration {
              enum server {
                description
                  "Local DHCP server.";
              }
              enum relay {
                description
                  "Local DHCP relay.  DHCP requests are relayed to
                   a provider's server.";
              }
            }
            description
              "Indicates the type of DHCP service to be enabled on
               this AC.";
          }
        }
        choice dhcp-relay {
          description
            "The DHCP relay is provided by the operator.";
          container customer-dhcp-servers {
            description
              "Container for a list of the customer's DHCP servers.";
            leaf-list server-ip-address {
              type inet:ipv4-address;

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

              description
                "IPv4 addresses of the customer's DHCP server.";
            }
          }
        }
      }
      case static-addresses {
        description
          "Lists the IPv4 addresses that are used.";
        list address {
          key "address-id";
          ordered-by user;
          description
            "Lists the IPv4 addresses that are used.  The first
             address of the list is the primary address of the
             connection.";
          leaf address-id {
            type string;
            description
              "An identifier of the static IPv4 address.";
          }
          leaf customer-address {
            type inet:ipv4-address;
            description
              "An IPv4 address of the customer side.";
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }

  // Full parameters for the IPv6 connection

  grouping ipv6-connection {
    description
      "IPv6-specific connection parameters.";
    leaf local-address {
      type inet:ipv6-address;
      description
        "IPv6 address of the provider side.";
    }
    leaf virtual-address {
      type inet:ipv6-address;
      description
        "This address may be used for redundancy purposes.";
    }
    uses ipv6-allocation-type;
    choice allocation-type {
      description
        "Choice of the IPv6 address allocation.";
      case dynamic {
        description
          "When the addresses are allocated by DHCP or other
           dynamic means local to the infrastructure.";
        choice address-assign {
          description
            "A choice for how IPv6 addresses are assigned.";
          case number {

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

            leaf number-of-dynamic-address {
              type uint16;
              description
                "Specifies the number of IP addresses to be
                 assigned to the customer on this access.";
            }
          }
          case explicit {
            container customer-addresses {
              description
                "Container for customer addresses to be allocated
                 using DHCP.";
              list address-pool {
                key "pool-id";
                description
                  "Describes IP addresses to be dynamically
                   allocated.

                   When only 'start-address' is present, it
                   represents a single address.

                   When both 'start-address' and 'end-address' are
                   specified, it implies a range inclusive of both
                   addresses.";
                leaf pool-id {
                  type string;
                  description
                    "A pool identifier for the address range from
                     'start-address' to 'end-address'.";
                }
                leaf start-address {
                  type inet:ipv6-address;
                  mandatory true;
                  description
                    "Indicates the first address in the pool.";
                }
                leaf end-address {
                  type inet:ipv6-address;
                  description
                    "Indicates the last address in the pool.";
                }
              }
            }
          }
        }
        choice provider-dhcp {
          description
            "Parameters related to DHCP-allocated addresses.
             IP addresses are allocated by DHCP, which is provided
             by the operator.";
          leaf dhcp-service-type {
            type enumeration {
              enum server {
                description
                  "Local DHCP server.";
              }
              enum relay {
                description

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 33

RFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

                  "Local DHCP relay.  DHCP requests are relayed
                   to a provider's server.";
              }
            }
            description
              "Indicates the type of DHCP service to be enabled
               on this access.";
          }
        }
        choice dhcp-relay {
          description
            "The DHCP relay is provided by the operator.";
          container customer-dhcp-servers {
            description
              "Container for a list of the customer's DHCP servers.";
            leaf-list server-ip-address {
              type inet:ipv6-address;
              description
                "IPv6 addresses of the customer's DHCP server.";
            }
          }
        }
      }
      case static-addresses {
        description
          "Lists the IPv6 addresses that are used by the customer.";
        list address {
          key "address-id";
          ordered-by user;
          description
            "Lists the IPv6 addresses that are used.  The first
             address of the list is the primary IP address of
             the connection.";
          leaf address-id {
            type string;
            description
              "An identifier of the static IPv6 address.";
          }
          leaf customer-address {
            type inet:ipv6-address;
            description
              "An IPv6 address of the customer side.";
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }

  /**** Routing ****/
  // Routing authentication

  grouping bgp-authentication {
    description
      "Grouping for BGP authentication parameters.";
    container authentication {
      description
        "Container for BGP authentication parameters.";
      leaf enabled {

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 34

RFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

        type boolean;
        description
          "Enables or disables authentication.";
      }
      container keying-material {
        when "../enabled = 'true'";
        description
          "Container for describing how a BGP routing session is to
           be secured on an AC.";
        choice option {
          description
            "Choice of authentication options.";
          case ao {
            description
              "Uses the TCP Authentication Option (TCP-AO).";
            reference
              "RFC 5925: The TCP Authentication Option";
            leaf enable-ao {
              type boolean;
              description
                "Enables the TCP-AO.";
            }
            leaf ao-keychain {
              type key-chain:key-chain-ref;
              description
                "Reference to the TCP-AO key chain.";
              reference
                "RFC 8177: YANG Data Model for Key Chains";
            }
          }
          case md5 {
            description
              "Uses MD5 to secure the session.";
            reference
              "RFC 4364: BGP/MPLS IP Virtual Private Networks
                         (VPNs), Section 13.2";
            leaf md5-keychain {
              type key-chain:key-chain-ref;
              description
                "Specifies a reference to the MD5 key chain.";
              reference
                "RFC 8177: YANG Data Model for Key Chains";
            }
          }
          case explicit {
            leaf key-id {
              type uint32;
              description
                "Specifies a key identifier.";
            }
            leaf key {
              type string;
              description
                "BGP authentication key.

                 This model only supports the subset of keys that
                 are representable as ASCII strings.";
            }

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 35

RFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

            leaf crypto-algorithm {
              type identityref {
                base key-chain:crypto-algorithm;
              }
              description
                "Indicates the cryptographic algorithm associated
                 with the key.";
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }

  grouping ospf-authentication {
    description
      "Authentication configuration.";
    container authentication {
      description
        "Container for OSPF authentication parameters.";
      leaf enabled {
        type boolean;
        description
          "Enables or disables authentication.";
      }
      container keying-material {
        when "../enabled = 'true'";
        description
          "Container for describing how an OSPF session is to be
           secured for an AC.";
        choice option {
          description
            "Options for OSPF authentication.";
          case auth-key-chain {
            leaf key-chain {
              type key-chain:key-chain-ref;
              description
                "Specifies the name of the key chain.";
            }
          }
          case auth-key-explicit {
            leaf key-id {
              type uint32;
              description
                "Specifies a key identifier.";
            }
            leaf key {
              type string;
              description
                "OSPF authentication key.

                 This model only supports the subset of keys that
                 are representable as ASCII strings.";
            }
            leaf crypto-algorithm {
              type identityref {
                base key-chain:crypto-algorithm;
              }

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 36

RFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

              description
                "Indicates the cryptographic algorithm associated
                 with the key.";
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }

  grouping isis-authentication {
    description
      "IS-IS authentication configuration.";
    container authentication {
      description
        "Container for IS-IS authentication parameters.";
      leaf enabled {
        type boolean;
        description
          "Enables or disables authentication.";
      }
      container keying-material {
        when "../enabled = 'true'";
        description
          "Describes how an IS-IS session is secured
           over an AC.";
        choice option {
          description
            "Options for IS-IS authentication.";
          case auth-key-chain {
            leaf key-chain {
              type key-chain:key-chain-ref;
              description
                "Specifies the name of the key chain.";
            }
          }
          case auth-key-explicit {
            leaf key-id {
              type uint32;
              description
                "Indicates a key identifier.";
            }
            leaf key {
              type string;
              description
                "IS-IS authentication key.

                 This model only supports the subset of keys that
                 are representable as ASCII strings.";
            }
            leaf crypto-algorithm {
              type identityref {
                base key-chain:crypto-algorithm;
              }
              description
                "Indicates the cryptographic algorithm associated
                 with the key.";
            }

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 37

RFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

          }
        }
      }
    }
  }

  grouping rip-authentication {
    description
      "RIP authentication configuration.";
    container authentication {
      description
        "Includes RIP authentication parameters.";
      leaf enabled {
        type boolean;
        description
          "Enables or disables authentication.";
      }
      container keying-material {
        when "../enabled = 'true'";
        description
          "Describes how a RIP session is to be secured
           on an AC.";
        choice option {
          description
            "Specifies the authentication scheme.";
          case auth-key-chain {
            leaf key-chain {
              type key-chain:key-chain-ref;
              description
                "Indicates the name of the key chain.";
            }
          }
          case auth-key-explicit {
            leaf key {
              type string;
              description
                "Specifies a RIP authentication key.

                 This model only supports the subset of keys that
                 are representable as ASCII strings.";
            }
            leaf crypto-algorithm {
              type identityref {
                base key-chain:crypto-algorithm;
              }
              description
                "Indicates the cryptographic algorithm associated
                 with the key.";
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }

  // Basic routing parameters

  grouping bgp-peer-group-without-name {

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 38

RFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

    description
      "Identifies a BGP peer-group configured on the local system.";
    leaf local-as {
      type inet:as-number;
      description
        "Indicates a local Autonomous System Number (ASN).  This ASN
         is exposed to a customer so that it knows which ASN to use
         to set up a BGP session.";
    }
    leaf peer-as {
      type inet:as-number;
      description
        "Indicates the customer's ASN when the customer requests
         BGP routing.";
    }
    leaf address-family {
      type identityref {
        base vpn-common:address-family;
      }
      description
        "This node contains the address families to be activated.
         'dual-stack' means that both IPv4 and IPv6 will be
         activated.";
    }
    leaf role {
      type identityref {
        base ac-common:bgp-role;
      }
      description
        "Specifies the BGP role (provider, customer, peer, etc.).";
      reference
        "RFC 9234: Route Leak Prevention and Detection Using
                   Roles in UPDATE and OPEN Messages, Section 4";
    }
  }

  grouping bgp-peer-group-with-name {
    description
      "Identifies a BGP peer-group configured on the local system,
       identified by a peer-group name.";
    leaf name {
      type string;
      description
        "Specifies the name of the BGP peer-group.";
    }
    uses bgp-peer-group-without-name;
  }

  grouping ospf-basic {
    description
      "Includes configuration specific to OSPF.";
    leaf address-family {
      type identityref {
        base vpn-common:address-family;
      }
      description
        "Indicates whether IPv4, IPv6, or both are to be activated.";
    }

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 39

RFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

    leaf area-id {
      type yang:dotted-quad;
      mandatory true;
      description
        "Specifies an area ID.";
      reference
        "RFC 4577: OSPF as the Provider/Customer Edge Protocol
                   for BGP/MPLS IP Virtual Private Networks
                   (VPNs), Section 4.2.3
         RFC 6565: OSPFv3 as a Provider Edge to Customer Edge
                   (PE-CE) Routing Protocol, Section 4.2";
    }
    leaf metric {
      type uint16;
      description
        "Metric of the AC.  It is used in the routing state
         calculation and path selection.";
    }
  }

  grouping isis-basic {
    description
      "Basic configuration specific to IS-IS.";
    leaf address-family {
      type identityref {
        base vpn-common:address-family;
      }
      description
        "Indicates whether IPv4, IPv6, or both are to be activated.";
    }
    leaf area-address {
      type area-address;
      mandatory true;
      description
        "Specifies an area address.";
    }
  }

  // Static routing

  grouping ipv4-static-rtg-entry {
    description
      "Parameters to configure a specific IPv4 static routing
       entry.";
    leaf lan {
      type inet:ipv4-prefix;
      description
        "Indicates an IPv4 LAN prefix.";
    }
    leaf lan-tag {
      type string;
      description
        "Internal tag to be used in service policies.";
    }
    leaf next-hop {
      type union {
        type inet:ip-address;
        type predefined-next-hop;

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 40

RFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

      }
      description
        "The next hop that is to be used for the static route.
         This may be specified as an IP address or a predefined
         next-hop type (e.g., 'discard' or 'local-link').";
    }
    leaf metric {
      type uint32;
      description
        "Indicates the metric associated with the static route.";
    }
  }

  grouping ipv4-static-rtg {
    description
      "A set of parameters specific to IPv4 static routing.";
    list ipv4-lan-prefixes {
      if-feature "vpn-common:ipv4";
      key "lan next-hop";
      description
        "List of LAN prefixes for the site.";
      uses ipv4-static-rtg-entry;
      uses ac-common:service-status;
    }
  }

  grouping ipv6-static-rtg-entry {
    description
      "Parameters to configure a specific IPv6 static routing
       entry.";
    leaf lan {
      type inet:ipv6-prefix;
      description
        "Indicates an IPv6 LAN prefix.";
    }
    leaf lan-tag {
      type string;
      description
        "Internal tag to be used in service (e.g., VPN) policies.";
    }
    leaf next-hop {
      type union {
        type inet:ip-address;
        type predefined-next-hop;
      }
      description
        "The next hop that is to be used for the static route.
         This may be specified as an IP address or a predefined
         next-hop type (e.g., 'discard' or 'local-link').";
    }
    leaf metric {
      type uint32;
      description
        "Indicates the metric associated with the static route.";
    }
  }

  grouping ipv6-static-rtg {

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 41

RFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

    description
      "A set of parameters specific to IPv6 static routing.";
    list ipv6-lan-prefixes {
      if-feature "vpn-common:ipv6";
      key "lan next-hop";
      description
        "List of LAN prefixes for the customer-terminating points.";
      uses ipv6-static-rtg-entry;
      uses ac-common:service-status;
    }
  }

  // OAM

  grouping bfd {
    description
      "Groups a set of basic BFD parameters.";
    leaf holdtime {
      type uint32;
      units "milliseconds";
      description
        "Specifies the expected BFD holdtime.

         The customer may impose some fixed values for the
         holdtime period if the provider allows the customer
         to use this function.

         If the provider doesn't allow the customer to use
         this function, fixed values will not be set.";
      reference
        "RFC 5880: Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD),
                   Section 6.8.18";
    }
  }

  // redundancy

  grouping redundancy-group {
    description
      "A grouping for redundancy group.";
    list group {
      key "group-id";
      description
        "Specifies a list of group identifiers.";
      leaf group-id {
        type string;
        description
          "Indicates the group-id to which an AC belongs.";
      }
      leaf precedence {
        type identityref {
          base ac-common:precedence-type;
        }
        description
          "Defines redundancy of an AC.";
      }
    }
  }

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 42

RFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

  // QoS

  grouping bandwidth-parameters {
    description
      "A grouping for bandwidth parameters.";
    leaf cir {
      type uint64;
      units "bps";
      description
        "Committed Information Rate (CIR).  The maximum number of
         bits that a port can receive or send during one second over
         an interface.";
    }
    leaf cbs {
      type uint64;
      units "bytes";
      description
        "Committed Burst Size (CBS).  CBS controls the bursty nature
         of the traffic.  Traffic that does not use the configured
         CIR accumulates credits until the credits reach the
         configured CBS.";
    }
    leaf eir {
      type uint64;
      units "bps";
      description
        "Excess Information Rate (EIR), i.e., excess frame delivery
         allowed not subject to a Service Level Agreement (SLA).
         The traffic rate can be limited by EIR.";
    }
    leaf ebs {
      type uint64;
      units "bytes";
      description
        "Excess Burst Size (EBS).  The bandwidth available for burst
         traffic from the EBS is subject to the amount of bandwidth
         that is accumulated during periods when traffic allocated
         by the EIR policy is not used.";
    }
    leaf pir {
      type uint64;
      units "bps";
      description
        "Peak Information Rate (PIR), i.e., maximum frame delivery
         allowed.  It is equal to or less than the sum of the CIR and
         EIR.";
    }
    leaf pbs {
      type uint64;
      units "bytes";
      description
        "Peak Burst Size (PBS).";
    }
  }

  grouping bandwidth-per-type {
    description

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 43

RFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

      "Grouping for bandwidth per type.";
    list bandwidth {
      key "bw-type";
      description
        "List for bandwidth per type parameters.";
      leaf bw-type {
        type identityref {
          base vpn-common:bw-type;
        }
        description
          "Indicates the bandwidth type.";
      }
      choice type {
        description
          "Choice based upon bandwidth type.";
        case per-cos {
          description
            "Bandwidth per Class of Service (CoS).";
          list cos {
            key "cos-id";
            description
              "List of CoSes.";
            leaf cos-id {
              type uint8;
              description
                "Identifier of the CoS, indicated by a Differentiated
                 Services Code Point (DSCP) or a CE-CLAN CoS (802.1p)
                 value in the service frame.";
              reference
                "IEEE Std 802.1Q: Bridges and Bridged Networks";
            }
            uses bandwidth-parameters;
          }
        }
        case other {
          description
            "Other bandwidth types.";
          uses bandwidth-parameters;
        }
      }
    }
  }
}

<CODE ENDS>

6.  Security Considerations

The "ietf-ac-common" YANG module defines a data model that is designed to be accessed via
[RFC8040]
.
YANG-based management protocols, such as NETCONF
These protocols have to use a secure transport layer (e.g., SSH
, and
QUIC

) and have to use mutual authentication.

 and RESTCONF

[RFC9000]

[RFC4252]

[RFC6241]

[RFC8446]

, TLS

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 44

RFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

 provides the means to
The Network Configuration Access Control Model (NACM)
restrict access for particular NETCONF or RESTCONF users to a preconfigured subset of all
available NETCONF or RESTCONF protocol operations and content.

[RFC8341]

The YANG module defines a set of identities, types, and groupings. These nodes are intended to
be reused by other YANG modules. The module by itself does not expose any data nodes that are
writable, data nodes that contain read-only state, or RPCs. As such, there are no additional
security issues related to the YANG module that need to be considered.

Modules that use the groupings that are defined in this document should identify the
corresponding security considerations. For example, reusing some of these groupings will
expose privacy-related information (e.g., 'ipv6-lan-prefixes' or 'ipv4-lan-prefixes'). Disclosing
such information may be considered a violation of the customer-provider trust relationship.

[RFC8177]

Several groupings ('bgp-authentication', 'ospf-authentication', 'isis-authentication', and 'rip-
authentication') rely upon
reuse these groupings will inherit the security considerations discussed in
Also, these groupings support supplying explicit keys as strings in ASCII format. The use of keys
in hexadecimal string format would afford greater key entropy with the same number of key-
string octets. However, such a format is not included in this version of the common AC model,
because it is not supported by the underlying device modules (e.g.,

 for authentication purposes. As such, modules that will

[RFC8695]

Section 5 of [RFC8177]
.

).

7.  IANA Considerations

IANA has registered the following URI in the "ns" subregistry within the "IETF XML Registry"
[RFC3688]
:

urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-ac-common

URI:
Registrant Contact:
XML:

The IESG.

N/A; the requested URI is an XML namespace.

IANA has registered the following YANG module in the "YANG Module Names" subregistry
[RFC6020]

 within the "YANG Parameters" registry:

ietf-ac-common
N

Name:
Maintained by IANA?
Namespace:
Prefix:
Reference:

ac-common

RFC 9833

urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-ac-common

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

[IEEE_802.1Q]

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 45

RFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

,

IEEE "IEEE Standard for Local and Metropolitan Area Networks-Bridges and
Bridged Networks" IEEE Std 802.1Q-2022 DOI 10.1109/IEEESTD.2022.10004498
December 2022,

,
<https://doi.org/10.1109/IEEESTD.2022.10004498>

,

.

,

,

ISO/IEC "Information technology - Telecommunications and information
exchange between systems - Intermediate System to Intermediate System intra-
domain routeing information exchange protocol for use in conjunction with the
protocol for providing the connectionless-mode network service (ISO8473)" ISO/
IEC 10589:2002

,
<https://www.iso.org/standard/30932.html>
.

, November 2002,

,

Callon, R. "Use of OSI IS-IS for routing in TCP/IP and dual environments" RFC
1195 DOI 10.17487/RFC1195
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
,
rfc1195>

, December 1990,

,

.

Malkin, G.
 and
January 1997,

R. Minnear "RIPng for IPv6" RFC 2080 DOI 10.17487/RFC2080
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2080>

,

,

.

,

Malkin, G. "RIP Version 2" STD 56 RFC 2453 DOI 10.17487/RFC2453
,
1998,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2453>

,

.

,

, November

Mealling, M. "The IETF XML Registry" BCP 81 RFC 3688 DOI 10.17487/RFC3688
,
January 2004,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3688>

,
.

,

,

,

,

Rekhter, Y., Ed. Li, T., Ed.
(BGP-4)" RFC 4271 DOI 10.17487/RFC4271
editor.org/info/rfc4271>

, and

,

,

.

,
, January 2006,

S. Hares, Ed. "A Border Gateway Protocol 4

<https://www.rfc-

Rosen, E. Psenak, P.
,
Protocol for BGP/MPLS IP Virtual Private Networks (VPNs)" RFC 4577 DOI
10.17487/RFC4577

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4577>

P. Pillay-Esnault "OSPF as the Provider/Customer Edge

, June 2006,

, and

,

,

.

Hopps, C. "Routing IPv6 with IS-IS" RFC 5308 DOI 10.17487/RFC5308
2008,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5308>

,

,

.

, October

,

Touch, J. Mankin, A.
DOI 10.17487/RFC5925

, and

R. Bonica "The TCP Authentication Option" RFC 5925

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5925>

, June 2010,

,

.

,

Bjorklund, M., Ed. "YANG - A Data Modeling Language for the Network
Configuration Protocol (NETCONF)" RFC 6020 DOI 10.17487/RFC6020
,
2010,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6020>

,

.

, October

,

Pillay-Esnault, P. Moyer, P. Doyle, J. Ertekin, E.
,
Provider Edge to Customer Edge (PE-CE) Routing Protocol" RFC 6565 DOI
10.17487/RFC6565

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6565>

, June 2012,

, and

M. Lundberg "OSPFv3 as a
,

,

,

.

,

Schoenwaelder, J., Ed. "Common YANG Data Types" RFC 6991 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6991

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6991>

, July 2013,

,
.

,

,

[ISO10589]

[RFC1195]

[RFC2080]

[RFC2453]

[RFC3688]

[RFC4271]

[RFC4577]

[RFC5308]

[RFC5925]

[RFC6020]

[RFC6565]

[RFC6991]

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 46

RFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

[RFC7348]

[RFC8077]

[RFC8177]

[RFC8341]

[RFC8342]

[RFC9181]

,

,

,

, and

Mahalingam, M. Dutt, D. Duda, K. Agarwal, P. Kreeger, L. Sridhar, T. Bursell,
,
M.
C. Wright "Virtual eXtensible Local Area Network (VXLAN): A
Framework for Overlaying Virtualized Layer 2 Networks over Layer 3
Networks" RFC 7348 DOI 10.17487/RFC7348
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc7348>

<https://www.rfc-

, August 2014,

,

,

,

.

 and

Martini, L., Ed.
the Label Distribution Protocol (LDP)" STD 84 RFC 8077 DOI 10.17487/RFC8077
February 2017,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8077>
.

G. Heron, Ed. "Pseudowire Setup and Maintenance Using

,

,

,

,

,

Lindem, A., Ed. Qu, Y. Yeung, D. Chen, I.
,
, and
Key Chains" RFC 8177 DOI 10.17487/RFC8177
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc8177>

,

.

,

J. Zhang "YANG Data Model for
, June 2017,

<https://www.rfc-

 and

Bierman, A.
STD 91 RFC 8341 DOI 10.17487/RFC8341
editor.org/info/rfc8341>

M. Bjorklund "Network Configuration Access Control Model"
,
, March 2018,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

,

,

R. Wilton "Network
Bjorklund, M. Schoenwaelder, J. Shafer, P. Watsen, K.
,
Management Datastore Architecture (NMDA)" RFC 8342 DOI 10.17487/RFC8342
,
March 2018,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8342>

, and
,

,

,

,

.

,

Barguil, S. Gonzalez de Dios, O., Ed. Boucadair, M., Ed.
,
YANG Data Model for Layer 2 and Layer 3 VPNs" RFC 9181 DOI 10.17487/
RFC9181

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9181>

, February 2022,

, and
,

,

.

Q. Wu "A Common

,

8.2.  Informative References

[MEF17]

[MEF6]

[RFC1701]

[RFC1702]

[RFC2003]

[RFC3644]

The Metro Ethernet Forum "Service OAM Requirements & Framework - Phase
1" MEF Technical Specification MEF 17
<https://www.mef.net/wp-
content/uploads/2015/04/MEF-17.pdf>
.

, April 2007,

,

,

,

The Metro Ethernet Forum "Ethernet Services Definitions - Phase I" MEF
Technical Specification MEF 6
<https://www.mef.net/Assets/
, August 2004,
Technical_Specifications/PDF/MEF_6.pdf>

.

,

,

,

,

,

Hanks, S. Li, T. Farinacci, D.
(GRE)" RFC 1701 DOI 10.17487/RFC1701
editor.org/info/rfc1701>

, and

,

,

.

P. Traina "Generic Routing Encapsulation

,

, October 1994,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

Hanks, S. Li, T. Farinacci, D.
over IPv4 networks" RFC 1702 DOI 10.17487/RFC1702
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1702>

, and
,

,

.

P. Traina "Generic Routing Encapsulation

,

, October 1994,

<https://

Perkins, C. "IP Encapsulation within IP" RFC 2003 DOI 10.17487/RFC2003
October 1996,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2003>

,

,

,

.

,

,

Snir, Y. Ramberg, Y. Strassner, J. Cohen, R.
,
Service (QoS) Information Model" RFC 3644 DOI 10.17487/RFC3644
,
2003,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3644>

, and
,

,

,

.

B. Moore "Policy Quality of

, November

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 47

RFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

[RFC4252]

[RFC4301]

[RFC4364]

[RFC4552]

[RFC4862]

[RFC5880]

[RFC6004]

[RFC6215]

[RFC6241]

[RFC7665]

[RFC7676]

[RFC8040]

[RFC8299]

[RFC8340]

Ylonen, T.
 and
RFC 4252 DOI 10.17487/RFC4252
,
rfc4252>
.

C. Lonvick, Ed. "The Secure Shell (SSH) Authentication Protocol"

,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, January 2006,

 and

Kent, S.
DOI 10.17487/RFC4301
rfc4301>

.

K. Seo "Security Architecture for the Internet Protocol" RFC 4301

,

,

,

, December 2005,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

 and

Rosen, E.
4364 DOI 10.17487/RFC4364
,
rfc4364>

,

.

Y. Rekhter "BGP/MPLS IP Virtual Private Networks (VPNs)" RFC
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, February 2006,

,

Gupta, M.
 and
DOI 10.17487/RFC4552

N. Melam "Authentication/Confidentiality for OSPFv3" RFC 4552

,

,

,

, June 2006,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4552>

.

,

Thomson, S. Narten, T.
, and
Autoconfiguration" RFC 4862 DOI 10.17487/RFC4862
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4862>

T. Jinmei "IPv6 Stateless Address
,

,

,

.

, September 2007,

<https://

Katz, D.
 and
10.17487/RFC5880

D. Ward "Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD)" RFC 5880 DOI

,

,

,

, June 2010,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5880>

.

 and

Berger, L.
D. Fedyk "Generalized MPLS (GMPLS) Support for Metro
Ethernet Forum and G.8011 Ethernet Service Switching" RFC 6004 DOI
10.17487/RFC6004

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6004>

, October 2010,

,

,

,

.

Bocci, M. Levrau, L.
,
,
Network-to-Network Interfaces" RFC 6215 DOI 10.17487/RFC6215
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6215>

, and

D. Frost "MPLS Transport Profile User-to-Network and

, April 2011,

,

.

,

Enns, R., Ed. Bjorklund, M., Ed. Schoenwaelder, J., Ed.
"Network Configuration Protocol (NETCONF)" RFC 6241 DOI 10.17487/RFC6241
June 2011,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6241>

A. Bierman, Ed.

, and
,

,

.

,

,

,

 and

Halpern, J., Ed.
Architecture" RFC 7665 DOI 10.17487/RFC7665
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc7665>
.

,

C. Pignataro, Ed. "Service Function Chaining (SFC)

, October 2015,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Pignataro, C. Bonica, R.
Encapsulation (GRE)" RFC 7676 DOI 10.17487/RFC7676
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7676>

, and

,

,

.

S. Krishnan "IPv6 Support for Generic Routing

, October 2015,

<https://

Bierman, A. Bjorklund, M.
,
10.17487/RFC8040

, and

K. Watsen "RESTCONF Protocol" RFC 8040 DOI

,

,

, January 2017,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8040>

,
.

,

Wu, Q., Ed. Litkowski, S. Tomotaki, L.
L3VPN Service Delivery" RFC 8299 DOI 10.17487/RFC8299
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8299>

, and

,
,

,

,

.

K. Ogaki "YANG Data Model for

, January 2018,

Bjorklund, M.
 and
10.17487/RFC8340

L. Berger, Ed. "YANG Tree Diagrams" BCP 215 RFC 8340 DOI
, March 2018,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8340>

,

,

,

.

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 48

RFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

[RFC8446]

[RFC8466]

[RFC8695]

[RFC8969]

[RFC9000]

[RFC9182]

[RFC9234]

[RFC9291]

[RFC9408]

[RFC9834]

[RFC9835]

[RFC9836]

Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
,
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>

, August 2018,

,

.

,

Wen, B. Fioccola, G., Ed. Xie, C.
L. Jalil "A YANG Data Model for Layer 2
Virtual Private Network (L2VPN) Service Delivery" RFC 8466 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8466

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8466>

, October 2018,

, and

,

,

,

,

.

,

, and

Liu, X. Sarda, P.
Information Protocol (RIP)" RFC 8695 DOI 10.17487/RFC8695
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8695>

V. Choudhary "A YANG Data Model for the Routing

,

,

,

.

, February 2020,

,

Wu, Q., Ed. Boucadair, M., Ed. Lopez, D. Xie, C.
Automating Service and Network Management with YANG" RFC 8969 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8969>
10.17487/RFC8969

, January 2021,

L. Geng "A Framework for

, and

,
,

,

,

,

.

Iyengar, J., Ed.
Secure Transport" RFC 9000 DOI 10.17487/RFC9000
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9000>

 and
,

,

.

M. Thomson, Ed. "QUIC: A UDP-Based Multiplexed and

,

, May 2021,

<https://

,

Barguil, S. Gonzalez de Dios, O., Ed. Boucadair, M., Ed. Munoz, L.
, and
,
Aguado "A YANG Network Data Model for Layer 3 VPNs" RFC 9182 DOI
,
,
10.17487/RFC9182

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9182>

, February 2022,

A.

,

,

.

,

Azimov, A. Bogomazov, E. Bush, R. Patel, K.
Prevention and Detection Using Roles in UPDATE and OPEN Messages" RFC
9234 DOI 10.17487/RFC9234
,
rfc9234>

K. Sriram "Route Leak
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2022,

, and

,

,

,

.

Boucadair, M., Ed. Gonzalez de Dios, O., Ed. Barguil, S.
Network Data Model for Layer 2 VPNs" RFC 9291 DOI 10.17487/RFC9291
September 2022,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9291>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

,

L. Munoz "A YANG
,

Boucadair, M., Ed. Gonzalez de Dios, O. Barguil, S. Wu, Q.
,
YANG Network Data Model for Service Attachment Points (SAPs)" RFC 9408 DOI
10.17487/RFC9408

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9408>

, June 2023,

V. Lopez "A

, and

,

,

,

.

,

,

Boucadair, M., Ed. Roberts, R., Ed. Gonzalez de Dios, O. Barguil, S.
B. Wu
,
"YANG Data Models for Bearers and Attachment Circuits as a Service (ACaaS)"
,
RFC 9834

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9834>

, September 2025,

, and

,

,

,

.

Boucadair, M., Ed. Roberts, R. Gonzalez de Dios, O. Barguil, S.
,
Network YANG Data Model for Attachment Circuits" RFC 9835
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9835>

,
,

.

,

B. Wu "A
, and
, September 2025,

,

Boucadair, M., Ed. Roberts, R. Barguil, S.
Data Model for Augmenting VPN Service and Network Models with Attachment
Circuits" RFC 9836
.
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9836>

O. Gonzalez de Dios "A YANG

, September 2025,

, and

,

,

,

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 49

RFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

[YANG-NSS]

,

Wu, B. Dhody, D. Rokui, R. Saad, T.
,
the RFC 9543 Network Slice Service" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-
teas-ietf-network-slice-nbi-yang-25
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/
html/draft-ietf-teas-ietf-network-slice-nbi-yang-25>

J. Mullooly "A YANG Data Model for

, 9 May 2025,

, and
,

,

,

,

.

[YANG-SCHEDULE]

Ma, Q., Ed. Wu, Q. Boucadair, M., Ed.
,

,

, and

D. King "A Common YANG Data

,

Model for Scheduling" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-netmod-
schedule-yang-04
ietf-netmod-schedule-yang-04>

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-

, 7 February 2025,

,

,

.

Appendix A.  Full Tree

module: ietf-ac-common

  grouping service-status:
    +-- status
       +-- admin-status
       |  +-- status?        identityref
       |  +--ro last-change?   yang:date-and-time
       +--ro oper-status
          +--ro status?        identityref
          +--ro last-change?   yang:date-and-time
  grouping ac-profile-cfg:
    +-- valid-provider-identifiers
       +-- encryption-profile-identifier* [id]
       |  +-- id   string
       +-- qos-profile-identifier* [id]
       |  +-- id   string
       +-- failure-detection-profile-identifier* [id]
       |  +-- id   string
       +-- forwarding-profile-identifier* [id]
       |  +-- id   string
       +-- routing-profile-identifier* [id]
          +-- id   string
  grouping op-instructions:
    +-- requested-start?   yang:date-and-time
    +-- requested-stop?    yang:date-and-time
    +--ro actual-start?      yang:date-and-time
    +--ro actual-stop?       yang:date-and-time
  grouping dot1q:
    +-- tag-type?   identityref
    +-- cvlan-id?   uint16
  grouping priority-tagged:
    +-- tag-type?   identityref
  grouping qinq:
    +-- tag-type?   identityref
    +-- svlan-id    uint16
    +-- cvlan-id    uint16
  grouping pseudowire:
    +-- vcid?      uint32
    +-- far-end?   union
  grouping vpls:
    +-- vcid?      uint32
    +-- far-end*   union

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 50

RFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

  grouping vxlan:
    +-- vni-id             uint32
    +-- peer-mode?         identityref
    +-- peer-ip-address*   inet:ip-address
  grouping l2-tunnel-service:
    +-- type?         identityref
    +-- pseudowire
    |  +-- vcid?      uint32
    |  +-- far-end?   union
    +-- vpls
    |  +-- vcid?      uint32
    |  +-- far-end*   union
    +-- vxlan
       +-- vni-id             uint32
       +-- peer-mode?         identityref
       +-- peer-ip-address*   inet:ip-address
  grouping ipv4-allocation-type:
    +-- prefix-length?             uint8
    +-- address-allocation-type?   identityref
  grouping ipv6-allocation-type:
    +-- prefix-length?             uint8
    +-- address-allocation-type?   identityref
  grouping ipv4-connection-basic:
    +-- prefix-length?                       uint8
    +-- address-allocation-type?             identityref
    +-- (allocation-type)?
       +--:(dynamic)
          +-- (provider-dhcp)?
          |  +--:(dhcp-service-type)
          |     +-- dhcp-service-type?       enumeration
          +-- (dhcp-relay)?
             +--:(customer-dhcp-servers)
                +-- customer-dhcp-servers
                   +-- server-ip-address*   inet:ipv4-address
  grouping ipv6-connection-basic:
    +-- prefix-length?                       uint8
    +-- address-allocation-type?             identityref
    +-- (allocation-type)?
       +--:(dynamic)
          +-- (provider-dhcp)?
          |  +--:(dhcp-service-type)
          |     +-- dhcp-service-type?       enumeration
          +-- (dhcp-relay)?
             +--:(customer-dhcp-servers)
                +-- customer-dhcp-servers
                   +-- server-ip-address*   inet:ipv6-address
  grouping ipv4-connection:
    +-- local-address?                           inet:ipv4-address
    +-- virtual-address?                         inet:ipv4-address
    +-- prefix-length?                           uint8
    +-- address-allocation-type?                 identityref
    +-- (allocation-type)?
       +--:(dynamic)
       |  +-- (address-assign)?
       |  |  +--:(number)
       |  |  |  +-- number-of-dynamic-address?   uint16
       |  |  +--:(explicit)
       |  |     +-- customer-addresses

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 51

RFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

       |  |        +-- address-pool* [pool-id]
       |  |           +-- pool-id          string
       |  |           +-- start-address    inet:ipv4-address
       |  |           +-- end-address?     inet:ipv4-address
       |  +-- (provider-dhcp)?
       |  |  +--:(dhcp-service-type)
       |  |     +-- dhcp-service-type?           enumeration
       |  +-- (dhcp-relay)?
       |     +--:(customer-dhcp-servers)
       |        +-- customer-dhcp-servers
       |           +-- server-ip-address*   inet:ipv4-address
       +--:(static-addresses)
          +-- address* [address-id]
             +-- address-id          string
             +-- customer-address?   inet:ipv4-address
  grouping ipv6-connection:
    +-- local-address?                           inet:ipv6-address
    +-- virtual-address?                         inet:ipv6-address
    +-- prefix-length?                           uint8
    +-- address-allocation-type?                 identityref
    +-- (allocation-type)?
       +--:(dynamic)
       |  +-- (address-assign)?
       |  |  +--:(number)
       |  |  |  +-- number-of-dynamic-address?   uint16
       |  |  +--:(explicit)
       |  |     +-- customer-addresses
       |  |        +-- address-pool* [pool-id]
       |  |           +-- pool-id          string
       |  |           +-- start-address    inet:ipv6-address
       |  |           +-- end-address?     inet:ipv6-address
       |  +-- (provider-dhcp)?
       |  |  +--:(dhcp-service-type)
       |  |     +-- dhcp-service-type?           enumeration
       |  +-- (dhcp-relay)?
       |     +--:(customer-dhcp-servers)
       |        +-- customer-dhcp-servers
       |           +-- server-ip-address*   inet:ipv6-address
       +--:(static-addresses)
          +-- address* [address-id]
             +-- address-id          string
             +-- customer-address?   inet:ipv6-address
  grouping bgp-authentication:
    +-- authentication
       +-- enabled?           boolean
       +-- keying-material
          +-- (option)?
             +--:(ao)
             |  +-- enable-ao?          boolean
             |  +-- ao-keychain?        key-chain:key-chain-ref
             +--:(md5)
             |  +-- md5-keychain?       key-chain:key-chain-ref
             +--:(explicit)
                +-- key-id?             uint32
                +-- key?                string
                +-- crypto-algorithm?   identityref
  grouping ospf-authentication:
    +-- authentication

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 52

RFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

       +-- enabled?           boolean
       +-- keying-material
          +-- (option)?
             +--:(auth-key-chain)
             |  +-- key-chain?          key-chain:key-chain-ref
             +--:(auth-key-explicit)
                +-- key-id?             uint32
                +-- key?                string
                +-- crypto-algorithm?   identityref
  grouping isis-authentication:
    +-- authentication
       +-- enabled?           boolean
       +-- keying-material
          +-- (option)?
             +--:(auth-key-chain)
             |  +-- key-chain?          key-chain:key-chain-ref
             +--:(auth-key-explicit)
                +-- key-id?             uint32
                +-- key?                string
                +-- crypto-algorithm?   identityref
  grouping rip-authentication:
    +-- authentication
       +-- enabled?           boolean
       +-- keying-material
          +-- (option)?
             +--:(auth-key-chain)
             |  +-- key-chain?          key-chain:key-chain-ref
             +--:(auth-key-explicit)
                +-- key?                string
                +-- crypto-algorithm?   identityref
  grouping bgp-peer-group-without-name:
    +-- local-as?         inet:as-number
    +-- peer-as?          inet:as-number
    +-- address-family?   identityref
    +-- role?             identityref
  grouping bgp-peer-group-with-name:
    +-- name?             string
    +-- local-as?         inet:as-number
    +-- peer-as?          inet:as-number
    +-- address-family?   identityref
    +-- role?             identityref
  grouping ospf-basic:
    +-- address-family?   identityref
    +-- area-id           yang:dotted-quad
    +-- metric?           uint16
  grouping isis-basic:
    +-- address-family?   identityref
    +-- area-address      area-address
  grouping ipv4-static-rtg-entry:
    +-- lan?        inet:ipv4-prefix
    +-- lan-tag?    string
    +-- next-hop?   union
    +-- metric?     uint32
  grouping ipv4-static-rtg:
    +-- ipv4-lan-prefixes* [lan next-hop] {vpn-common:ipv4}?
       +-- lan         inet:ipv4-prefix
       +-- lan-tag?    string
       +-- next-hop    union

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 53

RFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

       +-- metric?     uint32
       +-- status
          +-- admin-status
          |  +-- status?        identityref
          |  +--ro last-change?   yang:date-and-time
          +--ro oper-status
             +--ro status?        identityref
             +--ro last-change?   yang:date-and-time
  grouping ipv6-static-rtg-entry:
    +-- lan?        inet:ipv6-prefix
    +-- lan-tag?    string
    +-- next-hop?   union
    +-- metric?     uint32
  grouping ipv6-static-rtg:
    +-- ipv6-lan-prefixes* [lan next-hop] {vpn-common:ipv6}?
       +-- lan         inet:ipv6-prefix
       +-- lan-tag?    string
       +-- next-hop    union
       +-- metric?     uint32
       +-- status
          +-- admin-status
          |  +-- status?        identityref
          |  +--ro last-change?   yang:date-and-time
          +--ro oper-status
             +--ro status?        identityref
             +--ro last-change?   yang:date-and-time
  grouping bfd:
    +-- holdtime?   uint32
  grouping redundancy-group:
    +-- group* [group-id]
       +-- group-id      string
       +-- precedence?   identityref
  grouping bandwidth-parameters:
    +-- cir?   uint64
    +-- cbs?   uint64
    +-- eir?   uint64
    +-- ebs?   uint64
    +-- pir?   uint64
    +-- pbs?   uint64
  grouping bandwidth-per-type:
    +-- bandwidth* [bw-type]
       +-- bw-type      identityref
       +-- (type)?
          +--:(per-cos)
          |  +-- cos* [cos-id]
          |     +-- cos-id    uint8
          |     +-- cir?      uint64
          |     +-- cbs?      uint64
          |     +-- eir?      uint64
          |     +-- ebs?      uint64
          |     +-- pir?      uint64
          |     +-- pbs?      uint64
          +--:(other)
             +-- cir?   uint64
             +-- cbs?   uint64
             +-- eir?   uint64
             +-- ebs?   uint64

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 54

RFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

             +-- pir?   uint64
             +-- pbs?   uint64

Acknowledgments

The document reuses many of the structures that were defined in

[RFC9181]

 and

[RFC9182]
.

Thanks to
RTGDIR reviews,
review.

Ebben Aries

 for the YANG Doctors review,

Andy Smith

Watson Ladd

 for the SECDIR review, and

 and
Behcet Sarikaya

Gyanh Mishra

 for the
 for the GENART

Thanks to

Reza Rokui

 for the shepherd review.

Thanks to

Mahesh Jethanandani

 for the AD review.

Thanks to

Éric Vyncke Gunter Van de Velde Orie Steele

,

,

, and

Paul Wouters

 for the IESG review.

Contributors

Victor Lopez
Nokia
Email:

victor.lopez@nokia.com

Ivan Bykov
Ribbon Communications
Email:

Ivan.Bykov@rbbn.com

Qin Wu
Huawei
Email:

bill.wu@huawei.com

Kenichi Ogaki
KDDI
Email:

ke-oogaki@kddi.com

Luis Angel Munoz
Vodafone
Email:

luis-angel.munoz@vodafone.com

Authors' Addresses

Mohamed Boucadair (
Orange
Email:

editor
)

mohamed.boucadair@orange.com

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 55

RFC 9833

Common Attachment Circuit YANG

September 2025

Richard Roberts (
Juniper
Email:

rroberts@juniper.net

editor
)

Oscar Gonzalez de Dios
Telefonica
Email:

oscar.gonzalezdedios@telefonica.com

Samier Barguil
Nokia
Email:

samier.barguil_giraldo@nokia.com

Bo Wu
Huawei Technologies
Email:

lana.wubo@huawei.com

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 56

