Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9174
Standards Track
January 2022
2070-1721
B. Sipos
RKF Engineering

M. Demmer

J. Ott
Technical University of Munich

S. Perreault
LogMeIn

RFC 9174
Delay-Tolerant Networking TCP Convergence-Layer
Protocol Version 4

Abstract

This document describes a TCP convergence layer (TCPCL) for Delay-Tolerant Networking (DTN).
This version of the TCPCL protocol resolves implementation issues in the earlier TCPCL version 3
as deﬁned in RFC 7242 and provides updates to the Bundle Protocol (BP) contents, encodings, and
convergence-layer requirements in BP version 7 (BPv7). Speciﬁcally, TCPCLv4 uses BPv7 bundles
encoded by the Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR) as its service data unit being
transported and provides a reliable transport of such bundles. This TCPCL version also includes
security and extensibility mechanisms.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9174
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Scope

2.  Requirements Language

2.1.  Deﬁnitions Speciﬁc to the TCPCL Protocol

3.  General Protocol Description

3.1.  Convergence-Layer Services

3.2.  TCPCL Session Overview

3.3.  TCPCL States and Transitions

3.4.  PKIX Environments and CA Policy

3.5.  Session-Keeping Policies

3.6.  Transfer Segmentation Policies

3.7.  Example Message Exchange

4.  Session Establishment

4.1.  TCP Connection

4.2.  Contact Header

4.3.  Contact Validation and Negotiation

4.4.  Session Security

4.4.1.  Entity Identiﬁcation

4.4.2.  Certiﬁcate Proﬁle for the TCPCL

4.4.3.  TLS Handshake

4.4.4.  TLS Authentication

4.4.5.  Policy Recommendations

4.4.6.  Example TLS Initiation

4.5.  Message Header

4.6.  Session Initialization Message (SESS_INIT)

4.7.  Session Parameter Negotiation

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

4.8.  Session Extension Items

5.  Established Session Operation

5.1.  Upkeep and Status Messages

5.1.1.  Session Upkeep (KEEPALIVE)

5.1.2.  Message Rejection (MSG_REJECT)

5.2.  Bundle Transfer

5.2.1.  Bundle Transfer ID

5.2.2.  Data Transmission (XFER_SEGMENT)

5.2.3.  Data Acknowledgments (XFER_ACK)

5.2.4.  Transfer Refusal (XFER_REFUSE)

5.2.5.  Transfer Extension Items

6.  Session Termination

6.1.  Session Termination Message (SESS_TERM)

6.2.  Idle Session Termination

7.  Security Considerations

7.1.  Threat: Passive Leak of Node Data

7.2.  Threat: Passive Leak of Bundle Data

7.3.  Threat: TCPCL Version Downgrade

7.4.  Threat: Transport Security Stripping

7.5.  Threat: Weak TLS Conﬁgurations

7.6.  Threat: Untrusted End-Entity Certiﬁcate

7.7.  Threat: Certiﬁcate Validation Vulnerabilities

7.8.  Threat: Symmetric Key Limits

7.9.  Threat: BP Node Impersonation

7.10. Threat: Denial of Service

7.11. Mandatory-to-Implement TLS

7.12. Alternate Uses of TLS

7.12.1.  TLS without Authentication

7.12.2.  Non-certiﬁcate TLS Use

7.13. Predictability of Transfer IDs

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

8.  IANA Considerations

8.1.  Port Number

8.2.  Protocol Versions

8.3.  Session Extension Types

8.4.  Transfer Extension Types

8.5.  Message Types

8.6.  XFER_REFUSE Reason Codes

8.7.  SESS_TERM Reason Codes

8.8.  MSG_REJECT Reason Codes

8.9.  Object Identiﬁer for PKIX Module Identiﬁer

8.10. Object Identiﬁer for PKIX Other Name Forms

8.11. Object Identiﬁer for PKIX Extended Key Usage

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Signiﬁcant Changes from RFC 7242

Appendix B.  ASN.1 Module

Appendix C.  Example of the BundleEID Other Name Form

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

This document describes the TCP convergence-layer protocol for Delay-Tolerant Networking
(DTN). DTN is an end-to-end architecture providing communications in and/or through highly
stressed environments, including those with intermittent connectivity, long and/or variable
delays, and high bit error rates. More detailed descriptions of the rationale and capabilities of
these networks can be found in "Delay-Tolerant Networking Architecture"

[RFC4838]

.

An important goal of the DTN architecture is to accommodate a wide range of networking
technologies and environments. The protocol used for DTN communications is the Bundle
Protocol version 7 (BPv7)
store-and-forward overlay network. BPv7 requires the services of a "convergence-layer adapter"

, an application-layer protocol that is used to construct a

[RFC9171]

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

(CLA) to send and receive bundles using the service of some "native" link, network, or Internet
protocol. This document describes one such convergence-layer adapter that uses the well-known
Transmission Control Protocol (TCP). This convergence layer is referred to as TCP Convergence
Layer version 4 (TCPCLv4). For the remainder of this document,

•

the abbreviation "BP" without the version suﬃx refers to BPv7.

•

the abbreviation "TCPCL" without the version suﬃx refers to TCPCLv4.

The locations of the TCPCL and the Bundle Protocol in the Internet model protocol stack
(described in
with the TCPCL as its convergence layer, both BP and the TCPCL reside at the application layer of
the Internet model.

) are shown in Figure 1. In particular, when BP is using TCP as its bearer

[RFC1122]

+-------------------------+
|     DTN Application     | -\
+-------------------------|   |
|  Bundle Protocol (BP)   |   -> Application Layer
+-------------------------+   |
| TCP Conv. Layer (TCPCL) |   |
+-------------------------+   |
|     TLS (optional)      | -/
+-------------------------+
|          TCP            | ---> Transport Layer
+-------------------------+
|       IPv4/IPv6         | ---> Network Layer
+-------------------------+
|   Link-Layer Protocol   | ---> Link Layer
+-------------------------+

Figure 1: The Locations of the Bundle Protocol and the TCP Convergence-Layer Protocol above the
Internet Protocol Stack

1.1.  Scope

This document describes the format of the protocol data units passed between entities
participating in TCPCL communications. This document does not address:

•

The format of protocol data units of the Bundle Protocol, as those are deﬁned elsewhere in
. This includes the concept of bundle fragmentation or bundle encapsulation. The
[RFC9171]
TCPCL transfers bundles as opaque data blocks.

•

Mechanisms for locating or identifying other bundle entities (peers) within a network or
across an internet. The mapping of a node ID to a potential convergence layer (CL) protocol
and network address is left to implementation and conﬁguration of the BP Agent (BPA) and
its various potential routing strategies, as is the mapping of a DNS name and/or address to a
choice of an end-entity certiﬁcate to authenticate a node to its peers.

•

Logic for routing bundles along a path toward a bundle's endpoint. This CL protocol is
involved only in transporting bundles between adjacent entities in a routing sequence.

•

Policies or mechanisms for issuing Public Key Infrastructure Using X.509 (PKIX) certiﬁcates;
provisioning, deploying, or accessing certiﬁcates and private keys; deploying or accessing

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

certiﬁcate revocation lists (CRLs); or conﬁguring security parameters on an individual entity
or across a network.

•

Uses of TLS that are not based on PKIX certiﬁcate authentication (see Section 7.12.2) or in
which authentication of both entities is not possible (see Section 7.12.1).

Any TCPCL implementation requires a BPA to perform those above-listed functions in order to
perform end-to-end bundle delivery.

2.  Requirements Language

The key words "
", "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
", "
"
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

2.1.  Deﬁnitions Speciﬁc to the TCPCL Protocol

This section contains deﬁnitions speciﬁc to the TCPCL protocol.

Network Byte Order:

Here, "network byte order" means most signiﬁcant byte ﬁrst, a.k.a. big
 be transmitted in network byte
SHALL

endian. All of the integer encodings in this protocol
order.

TCPCL Entity:

This is the notional TCPCL application that initiates TCPCL sessions. This design,

implementation, conﬁguration, and speciﬁc behavior of such an entity is outside of the scope
of this document. However, the concept of an entity has utility within the scope of this
document as the container and initiator of TCPCL sessions. The relationship between a TCPCL
entity and TCPCL sessions is deﬁned as follows:

•

MAY

A TCPCL entity
 actively initiate any number of TCPCL sessions and should do so
whenever the entity is the initial transmitter of information to another entity in the
network.

•

A TCPCL entity
connection requests from other TCPCL entities operating on other entities in the network.

 support zero or more passive listening elements that listen for

MAY

•

A TCPCL entity
received by its passive listening element(s) if the entity uses such elements.

 passively initiate any number of TCPCL sessions from requests

MAY

These relationships are illustrated in Figure 2. For most TCPCL behavior within a session, the
two entities are symmetric and there is no protocol distinction between them. Some speciﬁc
behavior, particularly during session establishment, distinguishes between the active entity
and the passive entity. For the remainder of this document, the term "entity" without the preﬁx
"TCPCL" refers to a TCPCL entity.

TCP Connection:

The term "connection" in this speciﬁcation exclusively refers to a TCP

connection and any and all behaviors, sessions, and other states associated with that TCP
connection.

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

TCPCL Session:

A TCPCL session (as opposed to a TCP connection) is a TCPCL communication

relationship between two TCPCL entities. A TCPCL session operates within a single underlying
TCP connection, and the lifetime of a TCPCL session is bound to the lifetime of that TCP
connection. A TCPCL session is terminated when the TCP connection ends, due to either (1) one
or both entities actively closing the TCP connection or (2) network errors causing a failure of
the TCP connection. Within a single TCPCL session, there are two possible transfer streams:
one in each direction, with one stream from each entity being the outbound stream and the
other being the inbound stream (see Figure 3). From the perspective of a TCPCL session, the
two transfer streams do not logically interact with each other. The streams do operate over
the same TCP connection and between the same BPAs, so there are logical relationships at
those layers (message and bundle interleaving, respectively). For the remainder of this
document, the term "session" without the preﬁx "TCPCL" refers to a TCPCL session.

Session Parameters:

These are a set of values used to aﬀect the operation of the TCPCL for a

given session. The manner in which these parameters are conveyed to the bundle entity and
thereby to the TCPCL is implementation dependent. However, the mechanism by which two
entities exchange and negotiate the values to be used for a given session is described in
Section 4.3.

Transfer Stream:

A transfer stream is a unidirectional user-data path within a TCPCL session.

Transfers sent over a transfer stream are serialized, meaning that one transfer must complete
its transmission prior to another transfer being started over the same transfer stream. At the
stream layer, there is no logical relationship between transfers in that stream; it's only within
the BPA that transfers are fully decoded as bundles. Each unidirectional stream has a single
sender entity and a single receiver entity.

Transfer:

This refers to the procedures and mechanisms for conveyance of an individual bundle

from one node to another. Each transfer within the TCPCL is identiﬁed by a Transfer ID
number, which is guaranteed to be unique only to a single direction within a single session.

Transfer Segment:

A transfer segment is a subset of a transfer of user data being communicated

over a transfer stream.

Idle Session:

A TCPCL session is idle while there is no transmission in progress in either direction.

While idle, the only messages being transmitted or received are KEEPALIVE messages.

Live Session:

A TCPCL session is live while there is a transmission in progress in either direction.

Reason Codes:

The TCPCL uses numeric codes to encode speciﬁc reasons for individual failure/

error message types.

The relationship between connections, sessions, and streams is shown in Figure 3.

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

+--------------------------------------------+
|                 TCPCL Entity               |
|                                            |      +----------------+
|   +--------------------------------+       |      |                |-+
|   | Actively Initiated Session #1  +------------->| Other          | |
|   +--------------------------------+       |      | TCPCL Entity's | |
|                  ...                       |      | Passive        | |
|   +--------------------------------+       |      | Listener       | |
|   | Actively Initiated Session #n  +------------->|                | |
|   +--------------------------------+       |      +----------------+ |
|                                            |       +-----------------+
|      +---------------------------+         |
|  +---| +---------------------------+       |      +----------------+
|  |   | | Optional Passive          |       |      |                |-+
|  |   +-| Listener(s)               +<-------------+                | |
|  |     +---------------------------+       |      |                | |
|  |                                         |      | Other          | |
|  |    +---------------------------------+  |      | TCPCL Entity's | |
|  +--->| Passively Initiated Session #1  +-------->| Active         | |
|  |    +---------------------------------+  |      | Initiator(s)   | |
|  |                                         |      |                | |
|  |    +---------------------------------+  |      |                | |
|  +--->| Passively Initiated Session #n  +-------->|                | |
|       +---------------------------------+  |      +----------------+ |
|                                            |       +-----------------+
+--------------------------------------------+

Figure 2: The Relationships between TCPCL Entities

+---------------------------+              +---------------------------+
|    "Own" TCPCL Session    |              |   "Other" TCPCL Session   |
|                           |              |                           |
| +----------------------+  |              |  +----------------------+ |
| |   TCP Connection     |  |              |  |    TCP Connection    | |
| |                      |  |              |  |                      | |
| | +-----------------+  |  |   Messages   |  |  +-----------------+ | |
| | |   Own Inbound   |  +--------------------+  |  Peer Outbound  | | |
| | | Transfer Stream |                          | Transfer Stream | | |
| | |       -----     |<---[Seg]--[Seg]--[Seg]---|       -----     | | |
| | |     RECEIVER    |---[Ack]----[Ack]-------->|      SENDER     | | |
| | +-----------------+                          +-----------------+ | |
| |                                                                  | |
| | +-----------------+                          +-----------------+ | |
| | | Own Outbound    |-------[Seg]---[Seg]----->|  Peer Inbound   | | |
| | | Transfer Stream |<---[Ack]----[Ack]-[Ack]--| Transfer Stream | | |
| | |       -----     |                          |       -----     | | |
| | |      SENDER     |   +--------------------+ |     RECEIVER    | | |
| | +-----------------+   |  |              |  | +-----------------+ | |
| +-----------------------+  |              |  +---------------------+ |
+----------------------------+              +--------------------------+

Figure 3: The Relationship within a TCPCL Session of its Two Streams

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

3.  General Protocol Description

The service of this protocol is the transmission of DTN bundles via TCP. This document speciﬁes
the encapsulation of bundles, procedures for TCP setup and teardown, and a set of messages and
entity requirements. The general operation of the protocol is as follows.

3.1.  Convergence-Layer Services

This version of the TCPCL protocol provides the following services to support the overlaying BPA.
In all cases, this is not an API deﬁnition but a logical description of how the CL can interact with
the BPA. Each of these interactions can be associated with any number of additional metadata
items as necessary to support the operation of the CL or BPA.

Attempt Session:

The TCPCL allows a BPA to preemptively attempt to establish a TCPCL session

with a peer entity. Each session attempt can send a diﬀerent set of session negotiation
parameters as directed by the BPA.

Terminate Session:

The TCPCL allows a BPA to preemptively terminate an established TCPCL

session with a peer entity. The terminate request is done on a per-session basis.

Session State Changed:

The TCPCL entity indicates to the BPA when the session state changes.

The top-level session states indicated are as follows:

Connecting:

A TCP connection is being established. This state only applies to the active entity.

Contact Negotiating:

A TCP connection has been made (as either the active or passive entity),

and contact negotiation has begun.

Session Negotiating:

Contact negotiation has been completed (including possible TLS use),

and session negotiation has begun.

Established:

The session has been fully established and is ready for its ﬁrst transfer. When
the session is established, the peer node ID (along with an indication of whether or not it
was authenticated) and the negotiated session parameters (see Section 4.7) are also
communicated to the BPA.

Ending:

The entity sent a SESS_TERM message and is in the Ending state.

Terminated:

The session has ﬁnished normal termination sequencing.

Failed:

The session ended without normal termination sequencing.

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

Session Idle Changed:

The TCPCL entity indicates to the BPA when the Live/Idle substate of the

session changes. This occurs only when the top-level session state is "Established". The session
transitions from Idle to Live at the start of a transfer in either transfer stream; the session
transitions from Live to Idle at the end of a transfer when the other transfer stream does not
have an ongoing transfer. Because the TCPCL transmits serially over a TCP connection, it
suﬀers from "head-of-queue blocking", so a transfer in either direction can block an
immediate start of a new transfer in the session.

Begin Transmission:

The principal purpose of the TCPCL is to allow a BPA to transmit bundle

data over an established TCPCL session. Transmission requests are done on a per-session
basis, and the CL does not necessarily perform any per-session or inter-session queueing. Any
queueing of transmissions is the obligation of the BPA.

Transmission Success:

The TCPCL entity indicates to the BPA when a bundle has been fully

transferred to a peer entity.

Transmission Intermediate Progress:

The TCPCL entity indicates to the BPA the intermediate

progress of a transfer to a peer entity. This intermediate progress is at the granularity of each
transferred segment.

Transmission Failure:

The TCPCL entity indicates to the BPA certain reasons for bundle

transmission failure, notably when the peer entity rejects the bundle or when a TCPCL session
ends before transfer success. The TCPCL itself does not have a notion of transfer timeout.

Reception Initialized:

The TCPCL entity indicates this status to the receiving BPA just before any
transmission data is sent. This corresponds to reception of the XFER_SEGMENT message with
the START ﬂag set to 1.

Interrupt Reception:

The TCPCL entity allows a BPA to interrupt an individual transfer before it
has fully completed (successfully or not). Interruption can occur any time after the reception
is initialized.

Reception Success:

The TCPCL entity indicates to the BPA when a bundle has been fully

transferred from a peer entity.

Reception Intermediate Progress:

The TCPCL entity indicates to the BPA the intermediate

progress of a transfer from the peer entity. This intermediate progress is at the granularity of
each transferred segment. An indication of intermediate reception gives a BPA the chance to
inspect bundle header contents before the entire bundle is available and thus supports the
"Interrupt Reception" capability.

Reception Failure:

The TCPCL entity indicates to the BPA certain reasons for reception failure,
notably when the local entity rejects an attempted transfer for some local policy reason or
when a TCPCL session ends before transfer success. The TCPCL itself does not have a notion of
transfer timeout.

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

3.2.  TCPCL Session Overview

[RFC0793]

. After setup of the TCP connection is complete, an initial Contact

First, one entity establishes a TCPCL session to the other by initiating a TCP connection in
accordance with
Header is exchanged in both directions to establish a shared TCPCL version and negotiate the use
of TLS security (as described in Section 4). Once contact negotiation is complete, TCPCL
messaging is available and the session negotiation is used to set parameters of the TCPCL session.
One of these parameters is a node ID; each TCPCL entity is acting on behalf of a BPA having a
node ID. This is used to assist in routing and forwarding messages by the BPA and is part of the
authentication capability provided by TLS.

Once negotiated, the parameters of a TCPCL session cannot change; if there is a desire by either
peer to transfer data under diﬀerent parameters, then a new session must be established. This
makes CL logic simpler but relies on the assumption that establishing a TCP connection is
lightweight enough that TCP connection overhead is negligible compared to TCPCL data sizes.

Once the TCPCL session is established and conﬁgured in this way, bundles can be transferred in
either direction. Each transfer is performed by segmenting the transfer data into one or more
XFER_SEGMENT messages. Multiple bundles can be transmitted consecutively in a single
direction on a single TCPCL connection. Segments from diﬀerent bundles are never interleaved.
Bundle interleaving can be accomplished by fragmentation at the BP layer or by establishing
multiple TCPCL sessions between the same peers. There is no fundamental limit on the number of
TCPCL sessions that a single entity can establish, beyond the limit imposed by the number of
available (ephemeral) TCP ports of the active entity.

One feature of this protocol is that the receiving entity can send acknowledgment (XFER_ACK)
messages as bundle data segments arrive. The rationale behind these acknowledgments is to
enable the transmitting entity to determine how much of the bundle has been received, so that if
the session is interrupted, it can perform reactive fragmentation to avoid resending the already-
transmitted part of the bundle. In addition, there is no explicit ﬂow control on the TCPCL.

A TCPCL receiver can interrupt the transmission of a bundle at any point in time by replying with
a XFER_REFUSE message, which causes the sender to stop transmission of the associated bundle
(if it hasn't already ﬁnished transmission).

Note: This enables a cross-layer optimization in that it allows a receiver that detects
that it has already received a certain bundle to interrupt transmission as early as
possible and thus save transmission capacity for other bundles.

For sessions that are idle, a KEEPALIVE message is sent at a negotiated interval. This is used to
convey entity liveness information during otherwise messageless time intervals.

A SESS_TERM message is used to initiate the ending of a TCPCL session (see Section 6.1). During
termination sequencing, in-progress transfers can be completed but no new transfers can be
initiated. A SESS_TERM message can also be used to refuse a session setup by a peer (see Section
4.3). Regardless of the reason, session termination is initiated by one of the entities and the other

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

entity responds to it, as illustrated by Figures 13 and 14 in the next subsection. Even when there
are no transfers queued or in progress, the session termination procedure allows each entity to
distinguish between a clean end to a session and the TCP connection being closed because of
some underlying network issue.

Once a session is established, the TCPCL is a symmetric protocol between the peers. Both sides can
start sending data segments in a session, and one side's bundle transfer does not have to
complete before the other side can start sending data segments on its own. Hence, the protocol
allows for a bidirectional mode of communication. Note that in the case of concurrent
bidirectional transmission, acknowledgment segments

 be interleaved with data segments.

MAY

3.3.  TCPCL States and Transitions

The states of a normal TCPCL session (i.e., without session failures) are indicated in Figure 4.

  +-------+
  | START |
  +-------+
      |
  TCP Establishment
      |
      V
+-----------+            +---------------------+
|    TCP    |----------->|  Contact / Session  |
| Connected |            |     Negotiation     |
+-----------+            +---------------------+
                                    |
       +-----Session Parameters-----+
       |         Negotiated
       V
+-------------+                     +-------------+
| Established |----New Transfer---->| Established |
|   Session   |                     |   Session   |
|    Idle     |<---Transfers Done---|     Live    |
+-------------+                     +-------------+
      |                                    |
      +------------------------------------+
      |
      V
+-------------+
| Established |                    +-------------+
|   Session   |----Transfers------>|     TCP     |
|   Ending    |      Done          | Terminating |
+-------------+                    +-------------+
                                           |
     +----------TCP Close Message----------+
     |
     V
 +-------+
 |  END  |
 +-------+
Figure 4: Top-Level States of a TCPCL Session

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

Notes on established session states:

•

Session "Live" means transmitting or receiving over a transfer stream.

•

Session "Idle" means no transmission/reception over a transfer stream.

•

Session "Ending" means no new transfers will be allowed.

Contact negotiation involves exchanging a Contact Header ("CH" in Figures 5, 6, and 7) in both
directions and deriving a negotiated state from the two headers. The contact negotiation
sequencing is performed as either the active or passive entity and is illustrated in Figures 5 and 6,
respectively, which both share the data validation and negotiation of the Processing of Contact
Header ("[PCH]") activity (Figure 7) and the "[TCPCLOSE]" activity, which indicates TCP
connection close. Successful negotiation results in one of the Session Initiation ("[SI]") activities
being performed, as shown further below. To avoid data loss, a Session Termination ("[ST]")
exchange allows cleanly ﬁnishing transfers before a session is ended.

+-------+
| START |
+-------+
    |
TCP Connecting
    V
+-----------+
|    TCP    |            +---------+
| Connected |--Send CH-->| Waiting |--Timeout-->[TCPCLOSE]
+-----------+            +---------+
                              |
                          Received CH
                              V
                            [PCH]

Figure 5: Contact Initiation as Active Entity

+-----------+             +---------+
|   TCP     |--Wait for-->| Waiting |--Timeout-->[TCPCLOSE]
| Connected |     CH      +---------+
+-----------+                  |
                          Received CH
                               V
                       +-----------------+
                       | Preparing reply |--Send CH-->[PCH]
                       +-----------------+

Figure 6: Contact Initiation as Passive Entity

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

+-----------+
|  Peer CH  |
| available |
+-----------+
      |
 Validate and
  Negotiate
      V
 +------------+
 | Negotiated |--Failure-->[TCPCLOSE]
 +------------+
    |       |
  No TLS    +----Negotiate---+      [ST]
    |               TLS      |       ^
    V                        |    Failure
  +-----------+              V       |
  |   TCPCL   |            +---------------+
  | Messaging |<--Success--| TLS Handshake |
  | Available |            +---------------+
  +-----------+

Figure 7: Processing of Contact Header [PCH]

Session negotiation involves exchanging a session initialization (SESS_INIT) message in both
directions and deriving a negotiated state from the two messages. The session negotiation
sequencing is performed as either the active or passive entity and is illustrated in Figures 8 and 9,
respectively (where "[PSI]" means "Processing of Session Initiation"), which both share the data
validation and negotiation shown in Figure 10. The validation here includes certiﬁcate validation
and authentication when TLS is used for the session.

+-----------+
|   TCPCL   |                   +---------+
| Messaging |--Send SESS_INIT-->| Waiting |--Timeout-->[ST]
| Available |                   +---------+
+-----------+                       |
                            Received SESS_INIT
                                    |
                                    V
                                  [PSI]

Figure 8: Session Initiation [SI] as Active Entity

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

+-----------+
|   TCPCL   |                  +---------+
| Messaging |----Wait for ---->| Waiting |--Timeout-->[ST]
| Available |    SESS_INIT     +---------+
+-----------+                       |
                            Received SESS_INIT
                                    |
                            +-----------------+
                            | Preparing reply |--Send SESS_INIT-->[PSI]
                            +-----------------+

Figure 9: Session Initiation [SI] as Passive Entity

+----------------+
| Peer SESS_INIT |
|   available    |
+----------------+
        |
   Validate and
    Negotiate
        V
   +------------+
   | Negotiated |---Failure--->[ST]
   +------------+
        |
     Success
        V
  +--------------+
  | Established  |
  | Session Idle |
  +--------------+

Figure 10: Processing of Session Initiation [PSI]

Transfers can occur after a session is established and it's not in the Ending state. Each transfer
occurs within a single logical transfer stream between a sender and a receiver, as illustrated in
Figures 11 and 12, respectively.

                                       +--Send XFER_SEGMENT--+
+--------+                             |                     |
| Stream |                       +-------------+             |
|  Idle  |---Send XFER_SEGMENT-->| In Progress |<------------+
+--------+                       +-------------+
                                       |
     +---------All segments sent-------+
     |
     V
+---------+                       +--------+
| Waiting |---- Receive Final---->| Stream |
| for Ack |       XFER_ACK        |  Idle  |
+---------+                       +--------+

Figure 11: Transfer Sender States

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

Note on transfer sending: Pipelining of transfers can occur when the sending entity
begins a new transfer while in the "Waiting for Ack" state.

                                         +-Receive XFER_SEGMENT-+
+--------+                               |    Send XFER_ACK     |
| Stream |                         +-------------+              |
|  Idle  |--Receive XFER_SEGMENT-->| In Progress |<-------------+
+--------+                         +-------------+
                                         |
     +--------Sent Final XFER_ACK--------+
     |
     V
+--------+
| Stream |
|  Idle  |
+--------+

Figure 12: Transfer Receiver States

Session termination involves one entity initiating the termination of the session and the other
entity acknowledging the termination. For either entity, it is the sending of the SESS_TERM
message, which transitions the session to the Ending substate. While a session is in the Ending
state, only in-progress transfers can be completed and no new transfers can be started.

+-----------+                   +---------+
|  Session  |--Send SESS_TERM-->| Session |
| Live/Idle |                   | Ending  |
+-----------+                   +---------+

Figure 13: Session Termination [ST] from the Initiator

+-----------+                   +---------+
|  Session  |--Send SESS_TERM-->| Session |
| Live/Idle |                   | Ending  |
+-----------+<------+           +---------+
      |             |
 Receive SESS_TERM  |
      |             |
      +-------------+

Figure 14: Session Termination [ST] from the Responder

3.4.  PKIX Environments and CA Policy

This speciﬁcation deﬁnes requirements regarding how to use PKIX certiﬁcates issued by a
Certiﬁcate Authority (CA) but does not deﬁne any mechanisms for how those certiﬁcates come to
be. The requirements regarding TCPCL certiﬁcate use are broad, to support two quite diﬀerent
PKIX environments:

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

DTN-Aware CAs:

In the ideal case, the CA or CAs issuing certiﬁcates for TCPCL entities are aware
of the end use of the certiﬁcate, have a mechanism for verifying ownership of a node ID, and
are issuing certiﬁcates directly for that node ID. In this environment, the ability to
authenticate a peer entity node ID directly avoids the need to authenticate a network name or
address and then implicitly trust the node ID of the peer. The TCPCL authenticates the node ID
whenever possible; this is preferred over lower-level PKIX identities.

DTN-Ignorant CAs:

It is expected that Internet-scale "public" CAs will continue to focus on DNS

names as the preferred PKIX identiﬁer. There are large infrastructures already in place for
managing network-level authentication and protocols to manage identity veriﬁcation in
those environments
authenticating a lower-level identiﬁer for a peer and requiring the entity to trust that the node
ID given by the peer (during session initialization) is valid. This situation is not ideal, as it
allows the vulnerabilities described in Section 7.9, but it still provides some amount of mutual
authentication to take place for a TCPCL session.

. The TCPCL allows for this type of environment by

[RFC8555]

Even within a single TCPCL session, each entity may operate within diﬀerent PKI environments
and with diﬀerent identiﬁer limitations. The requirements related to identiﬁers in a PKIX
certiﬁcate are provided in Section 4.4.1.

It is important for interoperability that a TCPCL entity have its own security policy tailored to
accommodate the peers with which it is expected to operate. Some security policy
recommendations are given in Section 4.4.5, but these are meant as a starting point for tailoring.
A strict TLS security policy is appropriate for a private network with a single shared CA. Operation
on the Internet (such as inter-site BP gateways) could trade more lax TCPCL security with the use
of encrypted bundle encapsulation

 to ensure strong bundle security.

[DTN-BIBECT]

By using the Server Name Indication (SNI) DNS name (see Section 4.4.3), a single passive entity
can act as a convergence layer for multiple BPAs with distinct node IDs. When this "virtual host"
behavior is used, the DNS name is used as the indication of which BP node the active entity is
attempting to communicate with. A virtual host CL entity can be authenticated by a certiﬁcate
containing all of the DNS names and/or node IDs being hosted or by several certiﬁcates each
authenticating a single DNS name and/or node ID, using the SNI value from the peer to select
which certiﬁcate to use. The logic for mapping an SNI DNS name to an end-entity certiﬁcate is an
implementation matter and can involve correlating a DNS name with a node ID or other
certiﬁcate attributes.

3.5.  Session-Keeping Policies

This speciﬁcation deﬁnes requirements regarding how to initiate, sustain, and terminate a TCPCL
session but does not impose any requirements on how sessions need to be managed by a BPA. It is
a network administration matter to determine an appropriate session-keeping policy, but
guidance given here can be used to steer policy toward performance goals.

Persistent Session:

This policy preemptively establishes a single session to known entities in the

network and keeps the session active using KEEPALIVEs. Beneﬁts of this policy include
reducing the total amount of TCP data that needs to be exchanged for a set of transfers

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

(assuming that the KEEPALIVE size is signiﬁcantly smaller than the transfer size) and allowing
the session state to indicate peer connectivity. Drawbacks include wasted network resources
when a session is mostly idle or when network connectivity is inconsistent (which requires
that failed sessions be reestablished), and potential queueing issues when multiple transfers
are requested simultaneously. This policy assumes that there is agreement between pairs of
entities as to which of the peers will initiate sessions; if there is no such agreement, there is
potential for duplicate sessions to be established between peers.

Ephemeral Sessions:

This policy only establishes a session when an outgoing transfer needs to

be sent. Beneﬁts of this policy include not wasting network resources on sessions that are idle
for long periods of time and avoiding potential queueing issues as can be seen when using a
single persistent session. Drawbacks include the TCP and TLS overhead of establishing a new
session for each transfer. This policy assumes that each entity can function in a passive role to
listen for session requests from any peer that needs to send a transfer; when that is not the
case, the polling behavior discussed below needs to happen. This policy can be augmented to
keep the session established as long as any transfers are queued.

Active-Only Polling Sessions:

When naming and/or addressing of one entity is variable (i.e., a

dynamically assigned IP address or domain name) or when ﬁrewall or routing rules prevent
incoming TCP connections, that entity can only function in the active role. In these cases,
sessions also need to be established when an incoming transfer is expected from a peer or
based on a periodic schedule. This polling behavior causes ineﬃciencies compared to as-
needed ephemeral sessions.

Many other policies can be established in a TCPCL network between the two extremes of single
persistent sessions and only ephemeral sessions. Diﬀerent policies can be applied to each peer
entity and to each bundle as it needs to be transferred (e.g., for quality of service). Additionally,
future session extension types can apply further nuance to session policies and policy
negotiation.

3.6.  Transfer Segmentation Policies

Each TCPCL session allows a negotiated transfer segmentation policy to be applied in each
transfer direction. A receiving entity can set the Segment Maximum Receive Unit (MRU) in its
SESS_INIT message to determine the largest acceptable segment size, and a transmitting entity
can segment a transfer into any sizes smaller than the receiver's Segment MRU. It is a network
administration matter to determine an appropriate segmentation policy for entities using the
TCPCL protocol, but guidance given here can be used to steer policy toward performance goals.
Administrators are also advised to consider the Segment MRU in relation to chunking/
packetization performed by TLS, TCP, and any intermediate network-layer nodes.

Minimum Overhead:

For a simple network expected to exchange relatively small bundles, the

Segment MRU can be set to be identical to the Transfer MRU, which indicates that all transfers
can be sent with a single data segment (i.e., no actual segmentation). If the network is closed
and all transmitters are known to follow a single-segment transfer policy, then receivers can
avoid the necessity of segment reassembly. Because this CL operates over a TCP stream, which

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

suﬀers from a form of head-of-queue blocking between messages, while one entity is
transmitting a single XFER_SEGMENT message it is not able to transmit any XFER_ACK or
XFER_REFUSE messages for any associated received transfers.

Predictable Message Sizing:

In situations where the maximum message size is desired to be well
controlled, the Segment MRU can be set to the largest acceptable size (the message size less the
XFER_SEGMENT header size) and transmitters can always segment a transfer into maximum-
size chunks no larger than the Segment MRU. This guarantees that any single XFER_SEGMENT
will not monopolize the TCP stream for too long, which would prevent outgoing XFER_ACK and
XFER_REFUSE messages associated with received transfers.

Dynamic Segmentation:

Even after negotiation of a Segment MRU for each receiving entity, the
actual transfer segmentation only needs to guarantee that any individual segment is no larger
than that MRU. In a situation where TCP throughput is dynamic, the transfer segmentation
size can also be dynamic in order to control message transmission duration.

Many other policies can be established in a TCPCL network between the two extremes of
minimum overhead (large MRU, single segment) and predictable message sizing (small MRU,
highly segmented). Diﬀerent policies can be applied to each transfer stream to and from any
particular entity. Additionally, future session extension and transfer extension types can apply
further nuance to transfer policies and policy negotiation.

3.7.  Example Message Exchange

Figure 15 depicts the protocol exchange for a simple session, showing the session establishment
and the transmission of a single bundle split into three data segments (of lengths "L1", "L2", and
"L3") from Entity A to Entity B.

Note that the sending entity can transmit multiple XFER_SEGMENT messages without waiting for
the corresponding XFER_ACK responses. This enables pipelining of messages on a transfer
stream. Although this example only demonstrates a single bundle transmission, it is also possible
to pipeline multiple XFER_SEGMENT messages for diﬀerent bundles without necessarily waiting
for XFER_ACK messages to be returned for each one. However, interleaving data segments from
diﬀerent bundles is not allowed.

No errors or rejections are shown in this example.

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

             Entity A                             Entity B
             ========                             ========
    +-------------------------+
    |  Open TCP Connection    | ->      +-------------------------+
    +-------------------------+      <- |    Accept Connection    |
                                        +-------------------------+
    +-------------------------+
    |     Contact Header      | ->      +-------------------------+
    +-------------------------+      <- |     Contact Header      |
                                        +-------------------------+
    +-------------------------+
    |        SESS_INIT        | ->      +-------------------------+
    +-------------------------+      <- |        SESS_INIT        |
                                        +-------------------------+

    +-------------------------+
    |   XFER_SEGMENT (start)  | ->
    |     Transfer ID [I1]    |
    |       Length [L1]       |
    |  Bundle Data 0..(L1-1)  |
    +-------------------------+
    +-------------------------+         +-------------------------+
    |     XFER_SEGMENT        | ->   <- |     XFER_ACK (start)    |
    |     Transfer ID [I1]    |         |     Transfer ID [I1]    |
    |       Length   [L2]     |         |        Length   [L1]    |
    |Bundle Data L1..(L1+L2-1)|         +-------------------------+
    +-------------------------+
    +-------------------------+         +-------------------------+
    |    XFER_SEGMENT (end)   | ->   <- |         XFER_ACK        |
    |     Transfer ID [I1]    |         |     Transfer ID [I1]    |
    |        Length   [L3]    |         |      Length   [L1+L2]   |
    |Bundle Data              |         +-------------------------+
    |    (L1+L2)..(L1+L2+L3-1)|
    +-------------------------+
                                        +-------------------------+
                                     <- |      XFER_ACK (end)     |
                                        |     Transfer ID [I1]    |
                                        |     Length   [L1+L2+L3] |
                                        +-------------------------+

    +-------------------------+
    |       SESS_TERM         | ->      +-------------------------+
    +-------------------------+      <- |        SESS_TERM        |
                                        +-------------------------+
    +-------------------------+         +-------------------------+
    |        TCP Close        | ->   <- |        TCP Close        |
    +-------------------------+         +-------------------------+
Figure 15: An Example of the Flow of Protocol Messages on a Single TCP Session between Two
Entities

4.  Session Establishment

For bundle transmissions to occur using the TCPCL, a TCPCL session
between communicating entities. It is up to the implementation to decide how and when session
setup is triggered. For example, some sessions can be opened proactively and maintained for as

 ﬁrst be established

MUST

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

long as is possible given the network conditions, while other sessions will be opened only when
there is a bundle that is queued for transmission and the routing algorithm selects a certain next-
hop node.

4.1.  TCP Connection

MUST

 ﬁrst establish a TCP connection with the intended

To establish a TCPCL session, an entity
peer entity, typically by using the services provided by the operating system. Destination port
number 4556 has been assigned by IANA as the registered port number for the TCPCL; see Section
8.1. Other destination port numbers
destination port number (if diﬀerent from the registered TCPCL port number) is left up to the
implementation. Any source port number
system assigned number in the TCP Ephemeral range (49152-65535) is used.

 be used per local conﬁguration. Determining a peer's

 be used for TCPCL sessions. Typically, an operating

MAY

MAY

If the entity is unable to establish a TCP connection for any reason, then it is an implementation
 decide to reattempt to
matter to determine how to handle the connection failure. An entity
establish the connection. If it does so, it
attempts. Therefore, the entity
from the last attempt, and it
this delay in the case of repeated failures. The upper limit on a reattempt backoﬀ is
implementation deﬁned but
to the BPA that a connection cannot be made.

 overwhelm its target with repeated connection
 retry the connection setup earlier than some delay time

 be no longer than one minute (60 seconds) before signaling

 use a (binary) exponential backoﬀ mechanism to increase

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

SHOULD

SHOULD

MAY

SHALL

SHALL

 immediately transmit its Contact

 wait for the active entity's Contact Header. Upon reception of a

Once a TCP connection is established, the active entity
Header. The passive entity
Contact Header, the passive entity
receive a Contact Header after some implementation-deﬁned time duration after the TCP
connection is established, the waiting entity
SHALL
choose a Contact Header reception timeout interval no longer than one minute (60 seconds). The
ordering of the Contact Header exchange allows the passive entity to avoid allocating resources
to a potential TCPCL session until after a valid Contact Header has been received from the active
entity. This ordering also allows the passive peer to adapt to alternate TCPCL protocol versions.

 transmit its Contact Header. If either entity does not

 close the TCP connection. Entities

SHOULD

SHALL

The format of the Contact Header is described in Section 4.2. Because the TCPCL protocol version
in use is part of the initial Contact Header, entities using TCPCL version 4 can coexist on a
network with entities using earlier TCPCL versions (with some negotiation needed for
interoperation, as described in Section 4.3).

Within this speciﬁcation, when an entity is said to "close" a TCP connection the entity
the TCP FIN mechanism and not the RST mechanism. However, either mechanism, when
received, will cause a TCP connection to become closed.

SHALL

 use

4.2.  Contact Header

This section describes the format of the Contact Header and the meaning of its ﬁelds.

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

SHALL

If the entity is conﬁgured to enable the exchange of messages according to TLS 1.3
any successors that are compatible with that TLS ClientHello, the CAN_TLS ﬂag within its Contact
Header
security policy does not allow or require authentication. This follows the "opportunistic security"
, though an active attacker could interfere with the exchange in such
model speciﬁed in
cases (see Section 7.4).

 policy is to enable TLS for all sessions, even if

 be set to 1. The

RECOMMENDED

[RFC7435]

[RFC8446]

 or

Upon receipt of the Contact Header, both entities perform the validation and negotiation
procedures deﬁned in Section 4.3. After receiving the Contact Header from the other entity, either
 refuse the session by sending a SESS_TERM message with an appropriate reason code.
entity

MAY

The format for the Contact Header is as follows:

                     1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 3 3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
|                          magic='dtn!'                         |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
|     Version   |   Flags       |
+---------------+---------------+

Figure 16: Contact Header Format

See Section 4.3 for details on the use of each of these Contact Header ﬁelds.

The ﬁelds of the Contact Header are as follows:

magic:

A four-octet ﬁeld that always contains the octet sequence 0x64 0x74 0x6E 0x21, i.e., the

text string "dtn!" in US-ASCII (and UTF-8).

Version:

A one-octet ﬁeld value containing the value 4 (current version of the TCPCL protocol).

Flags:

A one-octet ﬁeld of single-bit ﬂags, interpreted according to the descriptions in Table 1. All
 be

 be set to 0 by the sender. All reserved header ﬂag bits

SHALL

SHALL

reserved header ﬂag bits
ignored by the receiver.

Name

Code

Description

CAN_TLS

0x01

If this bit is set, it indicates that the sending peer has enabled TLS
security.

Reserved

others

Table 1: Contact Header Flags

4.3.  Contact Validation and Negotiation

Upon reception of the Contact Header, each entity follows the following procedures to ensure the
validity of the TCPCL session and to negotiate values for the session parameters.

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

If the "magic string" is not present or is not valid, the connection
of the magic string is to provide some protection against an inadvertent TCP connection by a
diﬀerent protocol than the one described in this document. To prevent a ﬂood of repeated
connections from a misconﬁgured application, a passive entity
 deny new TCP connections
from a speciﬁc peer address for a period of time after one or more connections fail to provide a
decodable Contact Header.

 be terminated. The intent

MUST

MAY

The ﬁrst negotiation attempts to determine which TCPCL protocol version to use. The active
entity always sends its Contact Header ﬁrst and waits for a response from the passive entity.
During contact initiation, the active TCPCL entity
on a ﬁrst session attempt for a TCPCL peer. If the active entity receives a Contact Header with a
lower protocol version than the one sent earlier on the TCP connection, the TCP connection
SHALL
"Version mismatch", that entity
protocol version numbers in decreasing order. Managing multi-TCPCL-session state such as this is
an implementation matter.

 be closed. If the active entity receives a SESS_TERM message with a reason code of

 attempt further TCPCL sessions with the peer using earlier

 send the highest TCPCL protocol version

SHALL

MAY

If the passive entity receives a Contact Header containing a version that is not a version of the
TCPCL protocol that the entity implements, then the entity
 send its Contact Header and
immediately terminate the session with a reason code of "Version mismatch". If the passive entity
receives a Contact Header with a version that is lower than the latest version of the protocol that
the entity implements, the entity
 either terminate the session (with a reason code of "Version
mismatch") or adapt its operation to conform to the older version of the protocol. The decision of
version fallback is an implementation matter.

SHALL

MAY

The negotiated contact parameters deﬁned by this speciﬁcation are described in the following
paragraphs.

TCPCL Version:

Both Contact Headers of a successful contact negotiation have identical TCPCL

version numbers as described above. Only upon response of a Contact Header from the
passive entity is the TCPCL protocol version established and session negotiation begun.

Enable TLS:

Negotiation of the Enable TLS parameter is performed by taking the logical AND of

the two Contact Headers' CAN_TLS ﬂags. A local security policy is then applied to determine
whether the negotiated value of Enable TLS is acceptable. A reasonable security policy would
require or disallow the use of TLS, depending upon the desired network ﬂows. The
RECOMMENDED
require authentication. Because this state is negotiated over an unsecured medium, there is a
risk of TLS Stripping as described in Section 7.4.

 policy is to require TLS for all sessions, even if security policy does not allow or

If the Enable TLS state is unacceptable, the entity
code of "Contact Failure". Note that this "Contact Failure" reason is diﬀerent than a failure of a
TLS handshake or TLS authentication after an agreed-upon and acceptable Enable TLS state. If
the negotiated Enable TLS value is "true" and acceptable, then the TLS negotiation feature
described in Section 4.4 begins immediately following the Contact Header exchange.

 terminate the session with a reason

SHALL

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

4.4.  Session Security

This version of the TCPCL protocol supports establishing a TLS session within an existing TCP
connection. When TLS is used within the TCPCL, it aﬀects the entire session. Once TLS is
established, there is no mechanism available to downgrade the TCPCL session to non-TLS
operation.

Once established, the lifetime of a TLS connection
underlying TCP connection. Immediately prior to actively ending a TLS connection after TCPCL
session termination, the peer that sent the original (non-reply) SESS_TERM message
follow the closure alert procedure provided in
Because each TCPCL message is either ﬁxed length or self-indicates its length, the lack of a TLS
closure alert will not cause data truncation or corruption.

 be bound to the lifetime of the

 to cleanly terminate the TLS connection.

[RFC8446]

SHOULD

SHALL

Subsequent TCPCL session attempts to the same passive entity
resumption feature. There is no guarantee that the passive entity will accept the request to
resume a TLS session, and the active entity cannot assume any resumption outcome.

MAY

 attempt to use the TLS session

4.4.1.  Entity Identiﬁcation

The TCPCL uses TLS for certiﬁcate exchange in both directions to identify each entity and to allow
each entity to authenticate its peer. Each certiﬁcate can potentially identify multiple entities, and
there is no problem using such a certiﬁcate as long as the identiﬁers are suﬃcient to meet
authentication policy (as described in later sections) for the entity that presents it.

Because the PKIX environment of each TCPCL entity is likely not controlled by the certiﬁcate end
users (see Section 3.4), the TCPCL deﬁnes a prioritized list of what a certiﬁcate can identify
regarding a TCPCL entity:

Node ID:

The ideal certiﬁcate identity is the node ID of the entity using the NODE-ID, as deﬁned
below. When the node ID is identiﬁed, there is no need for any lower-level identiﬁcation to be
present (though it can still be present, and if so it is also validated).

DNS Name:

If CA policy forbids a certiﬁcate to contain an arbitrary NODE-ID but allows a DNS-
ID to be identiﬁed, then one or more stable DNS names can be identiﬁed in the certiﬁcate. The
use of wildcard DNS-IDs is discouraged due to the complex rules for matching and dependence
on implementation support for wildcard matching (see

Section 6.4.3 of [RFC6125]

).

Network Address:

If no stable DNS name is available but a stable network address is available

and CA policy allows a certiﬁcate to contain an IPADDR-ID (as deﬁned below), then one or
more network addresses can be identiﬁed in the certiﬁcate.

This speciﬁcation deﬁnes a NODE-ID of a certiﬁcate as being the subjectAltName entry of type
otherName with a name form of BundleEID (see Section 4.4.2.1) and a value limited to a node ID.
An entity
value that is some URI other than a node ID. The NODE-ID is similar to the URI-ID as deﬁned in
 but is restricted to a node ID rather than a URI with a qualiﬁed-name authority part.
[RFC6125]

 ignore any entry of type otherName with a name form of BundleEID and a

SHALL

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

SHALL

Unless speciﬁed otherwise by the deﬁnition of the URI scheme being authenticated, URI matching
of a NODE-ID
normalization of those schemes speciﬁed in
match" logic with rules regarding how node IDs within that scheme are to be compared with the
certiﬁcate-authenticated NODE-ID.

 and scheme-based
. A URI scheme can reﬁne this "exact

 use the URI comparison logic provided in

[RFC9171]

[RFC3986]

This speciﬁcation reuses the DNS-ID deﬁnition in
subjectAltName entry of type dNSName whose value is encoded according to

Section 1.8 of [RFC6125]

, which is the

[RFC5280]

.

This speciﬁcation deﬁnes an IPADDR-ID of a certiﬁcate as being the subjectAltName entry of type
iPAddress whose value is encoded according to

[RFC5280]

.

4.4.2.  Certiﬁcate Proﬁle for the TCPCL

All end-entity certiﬁcates used by a TCPCL entity
successors to that proﬁle. When an end-entity certiﬁcate is supplied, the full certiﬁcation chain
 be included unless security policy indicates that is unnecessary. An entity
 omit
SHOULD
SHOULD
the root CA certiﬁcate (the last item of the chain) when sending a certiﬁcation chain, as the
recipient already has the root CA to anchor its validation.

, or any updates or

 conform to

[RFC5280]

SHALL

The TCPCL requires version 3 certiﬁcates due to the extensions used by this proﬁle. TCPCL entities
SHALL

 reject as invalid version 1 and version 2 end-entity certiﬁcates.

SHALL

TCPCL entities
 accept certiﬁcates that contain an empty Subject ﬁeld or contain a Subject
without a Common Name. Identity information in end-entity certiﬁcates is contained entirely in
the subjectAltName extension as deﬁned in Section 4.4.1 and discussed in the paragraphs below.

All end-entity and CA certiﬁcates used for the TCPCL
and an authority key identiﬁer extension in accordance with
NOT
received certiﬁcate. Including key identiﬁers simpliﬁes the work of an entity that needs to
assemble a certiﬁcation chain.

 rely on either a subject key identiﬁer or an authority key identiﬁer being present in any

 contain both a subject key identiﬁer
. TCPCL entities

[RFC5280]

SHOULD

SHOULD

Unless prohibited by CA policy, a TCPCL end-entity certiﬁcate
authenticates the node ID of the peer. When assigned one or more stable DNS names, a TCPCL
end-entity certiﬁcate
When assigned one or more stable network addresses, a TCPCL end-entity certiﬁcate
an IPADDR-ID that authenticates those addresses.

 contain a DNS-ID that authenticates those (fully qualiﬁed) names.

 contain a NODE-ID that

SHOULD

SHALL

MAY

 contain

 contain a PKIX Extended Key Usage (EKU) extension in accordance with

When allowed by CA policy, a Bundle Protocol Security (BPSec; see
certiﬁcate
SHOULD
Section 4.2.1.12 of [RFC5280]
purpose id-kp-bundleSecurity (see Section 4.4.2.1). Although not speciﬁcally required by the
TCPCL, some networks or TLS implementations assume that id-kp-clientAuth and id-kp-
serverAuth need to be used for the client side and the server side of TLS authentication,
respectively. For interoperability, a TCPCL end-entity certiﬁcate
id-kp-clientAuth and id-kp-serverAuth values.

. When the PKIX EKU extension is present, it

 contain an EKU with both

) end-entity

[RFC9172]

SHOULD

MAY

 contain the key

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

When allowed by CA policy, a TCPCL end-entity certiﬁcate
extension in accordance with
consistent with TCPCL security using TLS 1.3 is digitalSignature. The speciﬁc algorithms used
during the TLS handshake will determine which of those key uses are exercised. Earlier versions
of TLS can mandate the use of the keyEncipherment bit or the keyAgreement bit.

. The PKIX key usage bit that is

Section 4.2.1.3 of [RFC5280]

 contain a PKIX key usage

SHOULD

When allowed by CA policy, a TCPCL end-entity certiﬁcate
Status Protocol (OCSP) URI within an authority information access extension in accordance with
Section 4.2.2.1 of [RFC5280]

 contain an Online Certiﬁcate

SHOULD

.

4.4.2.1.  PKIX OID Allocations

This document deﬁnes a PKIX Other Name Form identiﬁer, id-on-bundleEID, in Appendix B;
this identiﬁer can be used as the type-id in a subjectAltName entry of type otherName. The
BundleEID value associated with the otherName type-id id-on-bundleEID
 be a URI,
encoded as an IA5String, with a scheme that is present in the IANA "Bundle Protocol URI Scheme
Types" registry
present, the NODE-ID deﬁned in Section 4.4.1 limits its use to contain only a node ID.

. Although this Other Name Form allows any endpoint ID to be

[IANA-BUNDLE]

SHALL

This document deﬁnes a PKIX EKU key purpose, id-kp-bundleSecurity, in Appendix B; this
purpose can be used to restrict a certiﬁcate's use. The id-kp-bundleSecurity purpose can be
combined with other purposes in the same certiﬁcate.

4.4.3.  TLS Handshake

The use of TLS is negotiated via the Contact Header, as described in Section 4.3. After negotiating
an Enable TLS parameter of "true", and before any other TCPCL messages are sent within the
session, the session entities
. By
convention, this protocol uses the entity that initiated the underlying TCP connection (the active
peer) as the "client" role of the TLS handshake request.

 begin a TLS handshake in accordance with

[RFC8446]

SHALL

The TLS handshake, if it occurs, is considered to be part of the contact negotiation before the
TCPCL session itself is established. Speciﬁcs regarding exposure of sensitive data are discussed in
Section 7.

 follow all recommended practices speciﬁed in

The parameters within each TLS negotiation are implementation dependent but any TCPCL entity
SHALL
successors that become part of BCP 195. Within each TLS handshake, the following requirements
apply (using the rough order in which they occur):

, or any updates or

BCP 195 [RFC7525]

ClientHello:

When a resolved DNS name was used to establish the TCP connection, the TLS
SHOULD

 include a "server_name" extension in accordance with

. When
 contain a "HostName" value taken from the DNS

[RFC6066]

ClientHello
present, the server_name extension
name (of the passive entity) that was resolved.

SHALL

Note: The "HostName" in the server_name extension is the network name for the
passive entity, not the node ID of that entity.

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

Server Certiﬁcate:

The passive entity

SHALL

 supply a certiﬁcate within the TLS handshake to

allow authentication of its side of the session. The supplied end-entity certiﬁcate
conform to the proﬁle described in Section 4.4.2. The passive entity
to choose an appropriate server-side certiﬁcate that authenticates that DNS name.

MAY

SHALL

 use the SNI DNS name

Certiﬁcate Request:
certiﬁcate.

During the TLS handshake, the passive entity

SHALL

 request a client-side

Client Certiﬁcate:

The active entity

SHALL

 supply a certiﬁcate chain within the TLS handshake

to allow authentication of its side of the session. The supplied end-entity certiﬁcate
conform to the proﬁle described in Section 4.4.2.

SHALL

If a TLS handshake cannot negotiate a TLS connection, both entities of the TCPCL session
SHALL
close the TCP connection. At this point, the TCPCL session has not yet been established, so there is
no TCPCL session to terminate.

After a TLS connection is successfully established, the active entity
message to begin session negotiation. This session negotiation and all subsequent messaging are
secured.

 send a SESS_INIT

SHALL

4.4.4.  TLS Authentication

Using PKIX certiﬁcates exchanged during the TLS handshake, each of the entities can
authenticate a peer node ID directly or authenticate the peer DNS name or network address. The
logic for handling certiﬁcates and certiﬁcate data is separated into the following phases:

1.

Validating the certiﬁcation path from the end-entity certiﬁcate up to a trusted root CA.

2.

Validating the EKU and other properties of the end-entity certiﬁcate.

3.

Authenticating identities from a valid end-entity certiﬁcate.

4.

Applying security policy to the result of each identity type authentication.

The result of validating a peer identity (see Section 4.4.1) against one or more types of certiﬁcate
claims is one of the following:

Absent:

Indicating that no such claims are present in the certiﬁcate and the identity cannot be

authenticated.

Success:

Indicating that one or more such claims are present and at least one matches the peer

identity value.

Failure:

Indicating that one or more such claims are present and none match the peer identity.

4.4.4.1.  Certiﬁcate Path and Purpose Validation

For any peer end-entity certiﬁcate received during the TLS handshake, the entity
the certiﬁcation path validation described in
certiﬁcates. If enabled by local policy, the entity
[RFC6960]
providing OCSP authority information in accordance with
or if security policy disallows a certiﬁcate for any reason, the entity

 up to one of the entity's trusted CA
 perform an OCSP check of each certiﬁcate
. If certiﬁcate validation fails
 fail the TLS handshake
SHALL

[RFC5280]
SHALL

 perform

SHALL

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

with a "bad_certiﬁcate" alert. Leaving out part of the certiﬁcation chain can cause the entity to
fail to validate a certiﬁcate if the certiﬁcates that were left out are unknown to the entity (see
Section 7.6).

For the end-entity peer certiﬁcate received during the TLS handshake, the entity
SHALL
security policy to the key usage extension (if present) and EKU extension (if present) in
accordance with Sections 4.2.1.12 and 4.2.1.3 of
discussed in Section 4.4.2 of this document.

, respectively, and with the proﬁle

[RFC5280]

 apply

4.4.4.2.  Network-Level Authentication

Either during or immediately after the TLS handshake, each entity, if required by security policy,
SHALL
[RFC6125]

 validate the following certiﬁcate identiﬁers together in accordance with

Section 6 of

:

•

If the active entity resolved a DNS name (of the passive entity) in order to initiate the TCP
connection, that DNS name

 be used as a DNS-ID reference identiﬁer.

SHALL

•

The IP address of the other side of the TCP connection
reference identiﬁer.

SHALL

 be used as an IPADDR-ID

If the network-level identiﬁer's authentication result is Failure or if the result is Absent and
security policy requires an authenticated network-level identiﬁer, the entity
session (with a reason code of "Contact Failure").

SHALL

 terminate the

4.4.4.3.  Node ID Authentication

 validate the certiﬁcate NODE-ID in accordance with

Immediately before session parameter negotiation, each entity, if required by security policy,
 using the node
SHALL
ID of the peer's SESS_INIT message as the NODE-ID reference identiﬁer. If the NODE-ID validation
result is Failure or if the result is Absent and security policy requires an authenticated node ID, the
entity

 terminate the session (with a reason code of "Contact Failure").

Section 6 of [RFC6125]

SHALL

4.4.5.  Policy Recommendations

A

RECOMMENDED

 security policy encompasses the following:

•

enabling the use of OCSP checking during the TLS handshake.

•

instructing that, if an EKU extension is present, the extension needs to contain id-kp-
bundleSecurity (Section 4.4.2.1) to be usable with TCPCL security.

•

requiring a validated node ID (Section 4.4.4.3) and ignoring any network-level identiﬁer
(Section 4.4.4.2).

This policy relies on and informs the certiﬁcate requirements provided in Section 4.4.3. This policy
assumes that a DTN-aware CA (see Section 3.4) will only issue a certiﬁcate for a node ID when it
has veriﬁed that the private key holder actually controls the bundle node; this is needed to avoid
the threat identiﬁed in Section 7.9. This policy requires that a certiﬁcate contain a NODE-ID and
allows the certiﬁcate to also contain network-level identiﬁers. A tailored policy on a more
controlled network could relax the requirement on node ID validation and allow just network-
level identiﬁers to authenticate a peer.

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

4.4.6.  Example TLS Initiation

A summary of a typical TLS initiation is shown in the sequence in Figure 17 below. In this
example, the active peer terminates the session, but termination can be initiated from either
peer.

         Entity A                             Entity B
        active peer                         passive peer

+-------------------------+
|  Open TCP Connection    | ->      +-------------------------+
+-------------------------+      <- |    Accept Connection    |
                                    +-------------------------+
+-------------------------+
|     Contact Header      | ->      +-------------------------+
+-------------------------+      <- |     Contact Header      |
                                    +-------------------------+

+-------------------------+         +-------------------------+
|     TLS Negotiation     | ->   <- |     TLS Negotiation     |
|       (as client)       |         |       (as server)       |
+-------------------------+         +-------------------------+

           DNS-ID and IPADDR-ID authentication occurs.
               Secured TCPCL messaging can begin.

+-------------------------+
|        SESS_INIT        | ->      +-------------------------+
+-------------------------+      <- |        SESS_INIT        |
                                    +-------------------------+

                  NODE-ID authentication occurs.
           Session is established, transfers can begin.

+-------------------------+
|       SESS_TERM         | ->      +-------------------------+
+-------------------------+      <- |        SESS_TERM        |
                                    +-------------------------+
+-------------------------+
|    TLS Closure Alert    | ->      +-------------------------+
+-------------------------+      <- |    TLS Closure Alert    |
                                    +-------------------------+
+-------------------------+         +-------------------------+
|        TCP Close        | ->   <- |        TCP Close        |
+-------------------------+         +-------------------------+

Figure 17: A Simple Visual Example of TCPCL TLS Establishment between Two Entities

4.5.  Message Header

After the initial exchange of a Contact Header and (if TLS is negotiated to be used) the TLS
handshake, all messages transmitted over the session are identiﬁed by a one-octet header with
the following structure:

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
+---------------+
| Message Type  |
+---------------+

Figure 18: Format of the Message Header

The Message Header contains the following ﬁeld:

Message Type:

Indicates the type of the message as per Table 2 below. Encoded values are listed

in Section 8.5.

Name

Code Description

SESS_INIT

0x07

Contains the session parameter inputs from one of the entities, as
described in Section 4.6.

SESS_TERM

0x05

Indicates that one of the entities participating in the session
wishes to cleanly terminate the session, as described in Section
6.1.

XFER_SEGMENT

0x01

Indicates the transmission of a segment of bundle data, as
described in Section 5.2.2.

XFER_ACK

0x02

Acknowledges reception of a data segment, as described in
Section 5.2.3.

XFER_REFUSE

0x03

Indicates that the transmission of the current bundle
stopped, as described in Section 5.2.4.

SHALL

 be

KEEPALIVE

0x04

Used to keep the TCPCL session active, as described in Section
5.1.1.

MSG_REJECT

0x06

Contains a TCPCL message rejection, as described in Section 5.1.2.

Table 2: TCPCL Message Types

4.6.  Session Initialization Message (SESS_INIT)

Before a session is established and ready to transfer bundles, the session parameters are
negotiated between the connected entities. The SESS_INIT message is used to convey the per-
entity parameters, which are used together to negotiate the per-session parameters as described
in Section 4.7.

The format of a SESS_INIT message is shown in Figure 19.

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

+-----------------------------+
|       Message Header        |
+-----------------------------+
|   Keepalive Interval (U16)  |
+-----------------------------+
|       Segment MRU (U64)     |
+-----------------------------+
|      Transfer MRU (U64)     |
+-----------------------------+
|     Node ID Length (U16)    |
+-----------------------------+
|    Node ID Data (variable)  |
+-----------------------------+
|      Session Extension      |
|      Items Length (U32)     |
+-----------------------------+
|      Session Extension      |
|         Items (var.)        |
+-----------------------------+

Figure 19: SESS_INIT Format

The ﬁelds of the SESS_INIT message are as follows:

Keepalive Interval:

A 16-bit unsigned integer indicating the minimum interval, in seconds, to

negotiate as the Session Keepalive using the method described in Section 4.7.

Segment MRU:

A 64-bit unsigned integer indicating the largest allowable single-segment data

payload size to be received in this session. Any XFER_SEGMENT sent to this peer
data payload no longer than the peer's Segment MRU. The two entities of a single session
have diﬀerent Segment MRUs, and no relationship between the two is required.

SHALL

 have a
MAY

Transfer MRU:

A 64-bit unsigned integer indicating the largest allowable total-bundle data size
 have a Total Bundle

to be received in this session. Any bundle transfer sent to this peer
Length payload no longer than the peer's Transfer MRU. This value can be used to perform
proactive bundle fragmentation. The two entities of a single session
Transfer MRUs, and no relationship between the two is required.

 have diﬀerent

SHALL

MAY

Node ID Length and Node ID Data:

Together, these ﬁelds represent a variable-length text string.

SHALL

The Node ID Length is a 16-bit unsigned integer indicating the number of octets of Node ID
Data to follow. A zero-length node ID
than a truly empty node ID. This case allows an entity to avoid exposing node ID information
 contain the UTF-8 encoded
on an untrusted network. A non-zero-length Node ID Data
node ID of the entity that sent the SESS_INIT message. Every node ID
 be a URI
consistent with the requirements in
Protocol URI Scheme Types" registry
as described in Section 4.4.4.

 be used to indicate the lack of a node ID rather

 and the URI schemes of the IANA "Bundle

. The node ID itself can be authenticated

[RFC3986]
[IANA-BUNDLE]

SHALL

SHALL

Session Extension Items Length and Session Extension Items list:

 Together, these ﬁelds

represent protocol extension data not deﬁned by this speciﬁcation. The Session Extension
Items Length is the total number of octets to follow that are used to encode the Session

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

Extension Items list. The encoding of each Session Extension Item is within a consistent data
container as described in Section 4.8. The full set of Session Extension Items apply for the
duration of the TCPCL session to follow. The order and multiplicity of these Session Extension
Items are signiﬁcant, as deﬁned in the associated type speciﬁcation(s). If the content of the
Session Extension Items list disagrees with the Session Extension Items Length (e.g., the last
item claims to use more or fewer octets than are indicated in the Session Extension Items
Length), the reception of the SESS_INIT is considered to have failed.

If an entity receives a peer node ID that is not authenticated (by the procedure described in
Section 4.4.4.3), that node ID
Trusting an unauthenticated node ID can lead to the threat described in Section 7.9.

 be used by a BPA for any discovery or routing functions.

SHOULD NOT

When the active entity initiates a TCPCL session, it is likely based on routing information that
binds a node ID to CL parameters used to initiate the session. If the active entity receives a
SESS_INIT with a diﬀerent node ID than was intended for the TCPCL session, the session
allowed to be established. If allowed, such a session
provided in the SESS_INIT message rather than any intended value.

 be associated with the node ID

SHALL

MAY

 be

4.7.  Session Parameter Negotiation

An entity calculates the parameters for a TCPCL session by negotiating the values from its own
preferences (conveyed by the SESS_INIT it sent to the peer) with the preferences of the peer entity
(expressed in the SESS_INIT that it received from the peer). The negotiated parameters deﬁned by
this speciﬁcation are described in the following paragraphs.

Transfer MTU and Segment MTU:

The Maximum Transmission Unit (MTU) for whole transfers

and individual segments is identical to the Transfer MRU and Segment MRU, respectively, of
the received SESS_INIT message. A transmitting peer can send individual segments with any
size smaller than the Segment MTU, depending on local policy, dynamic network conditions,
etc. Determining the size of each transmitted segment is an implementation matter. If either
the Transfer MRU or Segment MRU is unacceptable, the entity
with a reason code of "Contact Failure".

 terminate the session

SHALL

Session Keepalive:

Negotiation of the Session Keepalive parameter is performed by taking the

minimum of the two Keepalive Interval values from the two SESS_INIT messages. The Session
Keepalive Interval is a parameter for the behavior described in Section 5.1.1. If the Session
Keepalive Interval is unacceptable, the entity
of "Contact Failure".

 terminate the session with a reason code

SHALL

Note: A negotiated Session Keepalive of zero indicates that KEEPALIVEs are
disabled.

Once this process of parameter negotiation is completed, this protocol deﬁnes no additional
mechanism to change the parameters of an established session; to eﬀect such a change, the
TCPCL session

 be terminated and a new session established.

MUST

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

4.8.  Session Extension Items

Each of the Session Extension Items
container form as indicated in Figure 20.

SHALL

 be encoded in an identical Type-Length-Value (TLV)

The ﬁelds of the Session Extension Item are as follows:

Item Flags:

A one-octet ﬁeld containing generic bit ﬂags related to the Item, which are listed in

SHALL

 be ignored by the receiver. If a TCPCL entity receives a Session Extension Item with

Table 3. All reserved header ﬂag bits
bits
an unknown Item Type and the CRITICAL ﬂag set to 1, the entity
session with a SESS_TERM reason code of "Contact Failure". If the CRITICAL ﬂag is 0, an entity
SHALL

 skip over and ignore any item with an unknown Item Type.

 be set to 0 by the sender. All reserved header ﬂag

 terminate the TCPCL

SHALL

SHALL

Item Type:

A 16-bit unsigned integer ﬁeld containing the type of the extension item. This
speciﬁcation does not deﬁne any extension types directly but does create an IANA registry for
such codes (see Section 8.3).

Item Length:
follow.

A 16-bit unsigned integer ﬁeld containing the number of Item Value octets to

Item Value:

A variable-length data ﬁeld that is interpreted according to the associated Item

Type. This speciﬁcation places no restrictions on an extension's use of available Item Value
data. Extension speciﬁcations
transfers can begin until the full extension data is sent.

 avoid the use of large data lengths, as no bundle

SHOULD

                     1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 3 3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
|  Item Flags   |           Item Type           | Item Length...|
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
| length contd. | Item Value...                                 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+

Figure 20: Session Extension Item Format

Name

Code

Description

CRITICAL

0x01

If this bit is set, it indicates that the receiving peer must handle the
extension item.

Reserved

others

Table 3: Session Extension Item Flags

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 33

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

5.  Established Session Operation

This section describes the protocol operation for the duration of an established session, including
the mechanism for transmitting bundles over the session.

5.1.  Upkeep and Status Messages

5.1.1.  Session Upkeep (KEEPALIVE)

The protocol includes a provision for transmission of KEEPALIVE messages over the TCPCL
session to help determine if the underlying TCP connection has been disrupted.

As described in Section 4.7, a negotiated parameter of each session is the Session Keepalive
Interval. If the negotiated Session Keepalive is zero (i.e., one or both SESS_INIT messages contain
a zero Keepalive Interval), then the keepalive feature is disabled. There is no logical minimum
value for the Keepalive Interval (within the minimum imposed by the positive-value encoding),
but when used for many sessions on an open, shared network, a short interval could lead to
excessive traﬃc. For shared network use, entities
than 30 seconds. There is no logical maximum value for the Keepalive Interval (within the
maximum imposed by the ﬁxed-size encoding), but an idle TCP connection is liable for closure by
the host operating system if the keepalive time is longer than tens of minutes. Entities
choose a Keepalive Interval no longer than 10 minutes (600 seconds).

 choose a Keepalive Interval no shorter

SHOULD

SHOULD

The chosen Keepalive Interval
case of packet loss. Those will have to be triggered by a timeout (TCP retransmission timeout
(RTO)), which is dependent on the measured RTT for the TCP connection so that KEEPALIVE
messages can experience noticeable latency.

 be too short, as TCP retransmissions may occur in the

SHOULD NOT

The format of a KEEPALIVE message is a one-octet Message Type code of KEEPALIVE (as described
in Table 2) with no additional data. Both sides
SHALL
negotiated interval has elapsed with no transmission of any message (KEEPALIVE or other).

 send a KEEPALIVE message whenever the

If no message (KEEPALIVE or other) has been received in a session after some implementation-
deﬁned time duration, then the entity
 terminate the session by transmitting a SESS_TERM
message (as described in Section 6.1) with a reason code of "Idle timeout". If conﬁgurable, the idle
timeout duration
 be no shorter than twice the Keepalive Interval. If not conﬁgurable, the
idle timeout duration

 be exactly twice the Keepalive Interval.

SHOULD

SHOULD

SHALL

5.1.2.  Message Rejection (MSG_REJECT)

This message type is not expected to be seen in a well-functioning session. Its purpose is to aid in
troubleshooting bad entity behavior by allowing the peer to observe why an entity is not
responding as expected to its messages.

If a TCPCL entity receives a message type that is unknown to it (possibly due to an unhandled
protocol version mismatch or an incorrectly negotiated session extension that deﬁnes a new
 send a MSG_REJECT message with a reason code of "Message
message type), the entity

SHALL

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 34

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

Type Unknown" and close the TCP connection. If a TCPCL entity receives a message type that is
known but is inappropriate for the negotiated session parameters (possibly due to an incorrectly
negotiated session extension), the entity
 send a MSG_REJECT message with a reason code
of "Message Unsupported". If a TCPCL entity receives a message that is inappropriate for the
current session state (e.g., a SESS_INIT after the session has already been established or a
XFER_ACK message with an unknown Transfer ID), the entity
 send a MSG_REJECT
message with a reason code of "Message Unexpected".

SHALL

SHALL

The format of a MSG_REJECT message is shown in Figure 21.

+-----------------------------+
|       Message Header        |
+-----------------------------+
|      Reason Code (U8)       |
+-----------------------------+
|   Rejected Message Header   |
+-----------------------------+

Figure 21: Format of MSG_REJECT Messages

The ﬁelds of the MSG_REJECT message are as follows:

Reason Code:

A one-octet refusal reason code interpreted according to the descriptions in Table

4.

Rejected Message Header:

The Rejected Message Header is a copy of the Message Header to

which the MSG_REJECT message is sent as a response.

Name

Code Description

Message Type
Unknown

Message
Unsupported

Message
Unexpected

0x01

0x02

0x03

A message was received with a Message Type code unknown
to the TCPCL entity.

A message was received, but the TCPCL entity cannot comply
with the message contents.

A message was received while the session is in a state in which
the message is not expected.

Table 4: MSG_REJECT Reason Codes

5.2.  Bundle Transfer

All of the messages discussed in this section are directly associated with transferring a bundle
between TCPCL entities.

A single TCPCL transfer results in the exchange of a bundle (handled by the convergence layer as
opaque data) between two entities. In the TCPCL, a transfer is accomplished by dividing a single
bundle up into "segments" based on the receiving-side Segment MRU, which is deﬁned in Section

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 35

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

4.6. The choice of the length to use for segments is an implementation matter, but each segment
MUST NOT
indicated by the START ﬂag, and the last segment is indicated by the END ﬂag.

 be larger than the receiving entity's Segment MRU. The ﬁrst segment for a bundle is

A single transfer (and, by extension, a single segment)
single bundle. This requirement is imposed on the agent using the TCPCL, rather than on the
TCPCL itself.

 contain data of more than a

SHALL NOT

If multiple bundles are transmitted on a single TCPCL connection, they
consecutively, without the interleaving of segments from multiple bundles.

MUST

 be transmitted

5.2.1.  Bundle Transfer ID

Each of the bundle transfer messages contains a Transfer ID, which is used to correlate messages
(from both sides of a transfer) for each bundle. A Transfer ID does not attempt to address
uniqueness of the bundle data itself and is not related to such concepts as bundle fragmentation.
Each invocation of the TCPCL by the BPA, requesting transmission of a bundle (fragmentary or
otherwise), results in the initiation of a single TCPCL transfer. Each transfer entails the sending of
a sequence of some number of XFER_SEGMENT and XFER_ACK messages; all are correlated by
the same Transfer ID. The sending entity originates a Transfer ID, and the receiving entity uses
that same Transfer ID in acknowledgments.

SHALL

Transfer IDs from each entity
the entire 64-bit Transfer ID space, the sending entity
SESS_TERM reason code of "Resource Exhaustion". For bidirectional bundle transfers, a TCPCL
entity
SHOULD NOT
the TCPCL session.

 rely on any relationship between Transfer IDs originating from each side of

 be unique within a single TCPCL session. Upon exhaustion of

 terminate the session with a

SHALL

Although there is not a strict requirement for initial Transfer ID values or the ordering of Transfer
IDs (see Section 7.13), in the absence of any other mechanism for generating Transfer IDs, an
entity
 use the following algorithm: the initial Transfer ID from each entity is zero, and
subsequent Transfer ID values are incremented from the prior Transfer ID value by one.

SHALL

5.2.2.  Data Transmission (XFER_SEGMENT)

Each bundle is transmitted in one or more data segments. The format of a XFER_SEGMENT
message is shown in Figure 22.

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 36

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

+------------------------------+
|       Message Header         |
+------------------------------+
|     Message Flags (U8)       |
+------------------------------+
|      Transfer ID (U64)       |
+------------------------------+
|     Transfer Extension       |
|      Items Length (U32)      |
|   (only for START segment)   |
+------------------------------+
|     Transfer Extension       |
|         Items (var.)         |
|   (only for START segment)   |
+------------------------------+
|      Data length (U64)       |
+------------------------------+
| Data contents (octet string) |
+------------------------------+

Figure 22: Format of XFER_SEGMENT Messages

The ﬁelds of the XFER_SEGMENT message are as follows:

Message Flags:

A one-octet ﬁeld of single-bit ﬂags, interpreted according to the descriptions in
 be set to 0 by the sender. All reserved header ﬂag

SHALL

Table 5. All reserved header ﬂag bits
bits

 be ignored by the receiver.

SHALL

Transfer ID:

A 64-bit unsigned integer identifying the transfer being made.

Transfer Extension Items Length and Transfer Extension Items list:

 Together, these ﬁelds

SHALL

represent protocol extension data for this speciﬁcation. The Transfer Extension Items Length
and Transfer Extension Items list
 only be present when the START ﬂag is set to 1 on the
message. The Transfer Extension Items Length is the total number of octets to follow that are
used to encode the Transfer Extension Items list. The encoding of each Transfer Extension
Item is within a consistent data container, as described in Section 5.2.5. The full set of Transfer
Extension Items apply only to the associated single transfer. The order and multiplicity of
these Transfer Extension Items are signiﬁcant, as deﬁned in the associated type
speciﬁcation(s). If the content of the Transfer Extension Items list disagrees with the Transfer
Extension Items Length (e.g., the last item claims to use more or fewer octets than are
indicated in the Transfer Extension Items Length), the reception of the XFER_SEGMENT is
considered to have failed.

Data length:
follow.

A 64-bit unsigned integer indicating the number of octets in Data contents to

Data contents:

The variable-length data payload of the message.

Name

Code

Description

END

0x01

If this bit is set, it indicates that this is the last segment of the transfer.

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 37

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

Name

Code

Description

START

0x02

If this bit is set, it indicates that this is the ﬁrst segment of the transfer.

Reserved

others

Table 5: XFER_SEGMENT Flags

The ﬂags portion of the message contains two ﬂag values in the two low-order bits, denoted
START and END in Table 5. The START ﬂag
a transfer. The END ﬂag
case where an entire transfer is accomplished in a single segment, both the START ﬂag and the
END ﬂag

 be set to 1 when transmitting the ﬁrst segment of
 be set to 1 when transmitting the last segment of a transfer. In the

 be set to 1.

SHALL

SHALL

SHALL

Once a transfer of a bundle has commenced, the entity
sequential portions of that bundle until it sends a segment with the END ﬂag set to 1. No
interleaving of multiple transfers from the same entity is possible within a single TCPCL session.
Simultaneous transfers between two entities
MAY

 be achieved using multiple TCPCL sessions.

 only send segments containing

MUST

5.2.3.  Data Acknowledgments (XFER_ACK)

Although the TCP transport provides reliable transfer of data between transport peers, the typical
BSD sockets interface provides no means to inform a sending application of when the receiving
application has processed some amount of transmitted data. Thus, after transmitting some data,
the TCPCL needs an additional mechanism to determine whether the receiving agent has
successfully received and fully processed the segment. To this end, the TCPCL protocol provides
feedback messaging whereby a receiving entity transmits acknowledgments of reception of data
segments.

The format of a XFER_ACK message is shown in Figure 23.

+-----------------------------+
|       Message Header        |
+-----------------------------+
|     Message Flags (U8)      |
+-----------------------------+
|      Transfer ID (U64)      |
+-----------------------------+
| Acknowledged length (U64)   |
+-----------------------------+

Figure 23: Format of XFER_ACK Messages

The ﬁelds of the XFER_ACK message are as follows:

Message Flags:

A one-octet ﬁeld of single-bit ﬂags, interpreted according to the descriptions in
 be set to 0 by the sender. All reserved header ﬂag

SHALL

Table 5. All reserved header ﬂag bits
bits

 be ignored by the receiver.

SHALL

Transfer ID:

A 64-bit unsigned integer identifying the transfer being acknowledged.

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 38

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

Acknowledged length: A 64-bit unsigned integer indicating the total number of octets in the

transfer that are being acknowledged.

SHALL

SHALL

 send a XFER_ACK message in response to each received

A receiving TCPCL entity
XFER_SEGMENT message after the segment has been fully processed. The ﬂags portion of the
XFER_ACK header
 be set to match the corresponding XFER_SEGMENT message being
acknowledged (including ﬂags not decodable to the entity). The acknowledged length of each
XFER_ACK contains the sum of the Data length ﬁelds of all XFER_SEGMENT messages received so
far in the course of the indicated transfer. The sending entity
XFER_SEGMENT messages without waiting for the corresponding XFER_ACK responses. This
enables pipelining of messages on a transfer stream.

 transmit multiple

SHOULD

For example, suppose the sending entity transmits four segments of bundle data with lengths 100,
200, 500, and 1000, respectively. After receiving the ﬁrst segment, the entity sends an
acknowledgment of length 100. After the second segment is received, the entity sends an
acknowledgment of length 300. The third and fourth acknowledgments are of lengths 800 and
1800, respectively.

5.2.4.  Transfer Refusal (XFER_REFUSE)

The TCPCL supports a mechanism by which a receiving entity can indicate to the sender that it
does not want to receive the corresponding bundle. To do so, upon receiving a XFER_SEGMENT
message, the entity
acknowledgments can cross on the wire, the bundle that is being refused
the Transfer ID of the refusal.

 transmit a XFER_REFUSE message. As data segments and

 be identiﬁed by

SHALL

MAY

There is no required relationship between the Transfer MRU of a TCPCL entity (which is supposed
to represent a ﬁrm limitation of what the entity will accept) and the sending of a XFER_REFUSE
message. A XFER_REFUSE can be used in cases where the agent's bundle storage is temporarily
depleted or somehow constrained. A XFER_REFUSE can also be used after the bundle header or
any bundle data is inspected by an agent and determined to be unacceptable.

A transfer receiver
message. The transfer sender
correct bundle via the Transfer ID ﬁelds.

MUST

MAY

 send a XFER_REFUSE message as soon as it receives any XFER_SEGMENT

 be prepared for this and

MUST

 associate the refusal with the

The TCPCL itself does not have any required behavior related to responding to a XFER_REFUSE
based on its reason code; the refusal is passed up as an indication to the BPA that the transfer has
been refused. If a transfer refusal has a reason code that is not decodable to the BPA, the agent
SHOULD

 treat the refusal as having a reason code of "Unknown".

The format of the XFER_REFUSE message is shown in Figure 24.

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 39

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

+-----------------------------+
|       Message Header        |
+-----------------------------+
|      Reason Code (U8)       |
+-----------------------------+
|      Transfer ID (U64)      |
+-----------------------------+

Figure 24: Format of XFER_REFUSE Messages

The ﬁelds of the XFER_REFUSE message are as follows:

Reason Code:

A one-octet refusal reason code interpreted according to the descriptions in Table

6.

Transfer ID:

A 64-bit unsigned integer identifying the transfer being refused.

Name

Code Description

Unknown

0x00

The reason for refusal is unknown or is not speciﬁed.

Completed

0x01

The receiver already has the complete bundle. The sender
consider the bundle as completely received.

MAY

No Resources

0x02

The receiver's resources are exhausted. The sender
reactive bundle fragmentation before retrying.

SHOULD

 apply

Retransmit

0x03

The receiver has encountered a problem that requires the bundle
to be retransmitted in its entirety.

Not Acceptable

0x04

Some issue with the bundle data or the transfer extension data was
encountered. The sender
the same extensions.

 retry the same bundle with

SHOULD NOT

Extension
Failure

0x05

A failure processing the Transfer Extension Items has occurred.

Session
Terminating

0x06

The receiving entity is in the process of terminating the session.
The sender
session.

 retry the same bundle at a later time in a diﬀerent

MAY

Table 6: XFER_REFUSE Reason Codes

The receiver
all XFER_SEGMENT messages or refused the bundle transfer.

MUST

, for each transfer preceding the one to be refused, have either acknowledged

The bundle transfer refusal
receives a XFER_REFUSE message, the sender
MUST
sent XFER_SEGMENT message. There is no way to interrupt an individual TCPCL message partway
through sending it. The sender

 be sent before an entire data segment is received. If a sender

 subsequently commence transmission of any further

 complete the transmission of any partially

MUST NOT

MAY

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 40

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

segments of the refused bundle. Note, however, that this requirement does not ensure that an
entity will not receive another XFER_SEGMENT for the same bundle after transmitting a
XFER_REFUSE message, since messages can cross on the wire; if this happens, subsequent
segments of the bundle

 also be refused with a XFER_REFUSE message.

SHALL

Note: If a bundle transmission is aborted in this way, the receiver does not receive a
segment with the END ﬂag set to 1 for the aborted bundle. The beginning of the next
bundle is identiﬁed by the START ﬂag set to 1, indicating the start of a new transfer,
and with a distinct Transfer ID value.

5.2.5.  Transfer Extension Items

Each of the Transfer Extension Items
container form as indicated in Figure 25.

SHALL

 be encoded in an identical Type-Length-Value (TLV)

The ﬁelds of the Transfer Extension Item are as follows:

Item Flags:

A one-octet ﬁeld containing generic bit ﬂags related to the Item, which are listed in

SHALL

 be ignored by the receiver. If a TCPCL entity receives a Transfer Extension Item

Table 7. All reserved header ﬂag bits
bits
with an unknown Item Type and the CRITICAL ﬂag is 1, the entity
 refuse the transfer
with a XFER_REFUSE reason code of "Extension Failure". If the CRITICAL ﬂag is 0, an entity
SHALL

 skip over and ignore any item with an unknown Item Type.

 be set to 0 by the sender. All reserved header ﬂag

SHALL

SHALL

Item Type:

A 16-bit unsigned integer ﬁeld containing the type of the extension item. This

speciﬁcation creates an IANA registry for such codes (see Section 8.4).

Item Length:
follow.

A 16-bit unsigned integer ﬁeld containing the number of Item Value octets to

Item Value:

A variable-length data ﬁeld that is interpreted according to the associated Item

Type. This speciﬁcation places no restrictions on an extension's use of available Item Value
data. Extension speciﬁcations
 avoid the use of large data lengths, as the associated
transfer cannot begin until the full extension data is sent.

SHOULD

                     1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 3 3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
|  Item Flags   |           Item Type           | Item Length...|
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
| length contd. | Item Value...                                 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+

Figure 25: Transfer Extension Item Format

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 41

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

Name

Code

Description

CRITICAL

0x01

If this bit is set, it indicates that the receiving peer must handle the
extension item.

Reserved

others

Table 7: Transfer Extension Item Flags

5.2.5.1.  Transfer Length Extension

The purpose of the Transfer Length Extension is to allow entities to preemptively refuse bundles
that would exceed their resources or to prepare storage on the receiving entity for the upcoming
bundle data.

Multiple Transfer Length Extension Items
a Transfer Length Extension Item in any transfer
potential length of the transfer. The Transfer Length Extension
point from Section 8.4.

SHALL NOT

SHALL NOT

 occur within the same transfer. The lack of
 imply anything regarding the

SHALL

 use the IANA-assigned code

If a transfer occupies exactly one segment (i.e., both the START ﬂag and the END ﬂag are 1), the
Transfer Length Extension
additional information for single-segment transfers.

 be present. The extension does not provide any

SHOULD NOT

The format of the Transfer Length Extension data is shown in Figure 26.

+----------------------+
|  Total Length (U64)  |
+----------------------+

Figure 26: Format of Transfer Length Extension Data

The Transfer Length Extension data contains the following ﬁeld:

Total Length:

A 64-bit unsigned integer indicating the size of the data to be transferred. The Total
 be treated as authoritative by the receiver. If, for whatever reason, the
SHALL

Length ﬁeld
actual total length of bundle data received diﬀers from the value indicated by the Total Length
value, the receiver
 treat the transmitted data as invalid and send a XFER_REFUSE with
a reason code of "Not Acceptable".

SHALL

6.  Session Termination

This section describes the procedures for terminating a TCPCL session. The purpose of
terminating a session is to allow transfers to complete before the TCP connection is closed but
not allow any new transfers to start. A session state change is necessary for this to happen,
because transfers can be in progress in either direction (transfer stream) within a session.

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 42

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

Waiting for a transfer to complete in one direction does not control or inﬂuence the possibility of
a transfer in the other direction. Either peer of a session can terminate an established session at
any time.

6.1.  Session Termination Message (SESS_TERM)

To cleanly terminate a session, a SESS_TERM message
any point following complete transmission of any other message. When sent to initiate a
termination, the REPLY ﬂag of a SESS_TERM message
message after not sending a SESS_TERM message in the same session, an entity
acknowledging SESS_TERM message. When sent to acknowledge a termination, a SESS_TERM
message
REPLY ﬂag, which is set to 1 to indicate acknowledgment.

 be 0. Upon receiving a SESS_TERM
 send an

 have identical data content from the message being acknowledged except for the

 be transmitted by either entity at

SHALL

SHALL

SHALL

SHALL

Once a SESS_TERM message is sent, the state of that TCPCL session changes to Ending. While the
session is in the Ending state,

•

an entity

MAY

 ﬁnish an in-progress transfer in either direction.

•

an entity

SHALL NOT

•

an entity

SHALL NOT

 begin any new outgoing transfer for the remainder of the session.

 accept any new incoming transfer for the remainder of the session.

If a new incoming transfer is attempted while in the Ending state, the receiving entity
a XFER_REFUSE with a reason code of "Session Terminating".

SHALL

 send

MAY

 perform an unclean termination by immediately closing the associated
 acknowledge all

There are circumstances where an entity has an urgent need to close a TCP connection
associated with a TCPCL session, without waiting for transfers to complete but also in a way that
doesn't force timeouts to occur -- for example, due to impending shutdown of the underlying data-
link layer. Instead of following a clean termination sequence, after transmitting a SESS_TERM
message, an entity
TCP connection. When performing an unclean termination, an entity
received XFER_SEGMENTs with a XFER_ACK before closing the TCP connection. Not
acknowledging received segments can result in unnecessary bundle or bundle fragment
retransmissions. Any delay between a request to close the TCP connection and the actual closing
of the connection (a "half-closed" state)
 be ignored by the TCPCL entity. If the underlying TCP
MAY
connection is closed during a transmission (in either transfer stream), the transfer
indicated to the BPA as failed (see the transmission failure and reception failure indications
deﬁned in Section 3.1).

SHOULD

SHALL

 be

The TCPCL itself does not have any required behavior related to responding to a SESS_TERM based
on its reason code; the termination is passed up as an indication to the BPA that the session state
has changed. If a termination has a reason code that is not decodable to the BPA, the agent
SHOULD

 treat the termination as having a reason code of "Unknown".

The format of the SESS_TERM message is shown in Figure 27.

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 43

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

+-----------------------------+
|       Message Header        |
+-----------------------------+
|     Message Flags (U8)      |
+-----------------------------+
|      Reason Code (U8)       |
+-----------------------------+

Figure 27: Format of SESS_TERM Messages

The ﬁelds of the SESS_TERM message are as follows:

Message Flags:

A one-octet ﬁeld of single-bit ﬂags, interpreted according to the descriptions in
 be set to 0 by the sender. All reserved header ﬂag

SHALL

Table 8. All reserved header ﬂag bits
bits

 be ignored by the receiver.

SHALL

Reason Code:

A one-octet refusal reason code interpreted according to the descriptions in Table

9.

Name

Code

Description

REPLY

0x01

If this bit is set, it indicates that this message is an acknowledgment of
an earlier SESS_TERM message.

Reserved

others

Table 8: SESS_TERM Flags

Name

Code Description

Unknown

0x00

A termination reason is not available.

Idle timeout

0x01

The session is being terminated due to idleness.

Version mismatch

0x02

The entity cannot conform to the speciﬁed TCPCL protocol
version.

Busy

0x03

The entity is too busy to handle the current session.

Contact Failure

0x04

The entity cannot interpret or negotiate a Contact Header or
SESS_INIT option.

Resource
Exhaustion

0x05

The entity has run into some resource limit and cannot
continue the session.

Table 9: SESS_TERM Reason Codes

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 44

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

The earliest a TCPCL session termination
Contact Header (and prior to any further message transmissions). This can, for example, be used
as a notiﬁcation that the entity is currently not able or willing to communicate. However, an
 always send the Contact Header to its peer before sending a SESS_TERM message.
entity

 occur is immediately after transmission of a

MUST

MAY

Termination of the TCP connection
 occur prior to receiving the Contact Header as discussed
in Section 4.1. If reception of the Contact Header itself somehow fails (e.g., an invalid magic string
is received), an entity

 close the TCP connection without sending a SESS_TERM message.

SHALL

MAY

MUST NOT

 transmit the SESS_TERM message but still

If a session is to be terminated before the sending of a protocol message has completed, then the
entity
TCPCL message is contiguous in the octet stream and has no ability to be cut short and/or
preempted by another message. This is particularly important when large segment sizes are being
transmitted; either the entire XFER_SEGMENT is sent before a SESS_TERM message or the
connection is simply terminated mid-XFER_SEGMENT.

 close the TCP connection. Each

SHALL

6.2.  Idle Session Termination

The protocol includes a provision for clean termination of idle sessions. Determining the length
of time to wait before terminating idle sessions, if they are to be terminated at all, is an
implementation and conﬁguration matter.

If there is a conﬁgured time to terminate idle sessions and if no TCPCL messages (other than
KEEPALIVE messages) have been received for at least that amount of time, then either entity
MAY
terminate the session by transmitting a SESS_TERM message with a reason code of "Idle timeout"
(as described in Table 9).

7.  Security Considerations

This section separates security considerations into threat categories based on guidance provided
in

BCP 72 [RFC3552]

.

7.1.  Threat: Passive Leak of Node Data

When used without TLS security, the TCPCL exposes the node ID and other conﬁguration data to
passive eavesdroppers. This occurs even when no transfers occur within a TCPCL session. This
can be avoided by always using TLS, even if authentication is not available (see Section 7.12).

7.2.  Threat: Passive Leak of Bundle Data

The TCPCL can be used to provide point-to-point transport security, but it does not provide
security of data at rest and does not guarantee end-to-end bundle security. The bundle security
mechanisms deﬁned in

 are to be used instead.

[RFC9172]

When used without TLS security, the TCPCL exposes all bundle data to passive eavesdroppers. This
can be avoided by always using TLS, even if authentication is not available (see Section 7.12).

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 45

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

7.3.  Threat: TCPCL Version Downgrade

When a TCPCL entity supports multiple versions of the protocol, it is possible for a malicious or
misconﬁgured peer to use an older version of the TCPCL protocol that does not support transport
security. An on-path attacker can also manipulate a Contact Header to present a lower protocol
version than desired.

It is up to security policies within each TCPCL entity to ensure that the negotiated TCPCL version
meets transport security requirements.

7.4.  Threat: Transport Security Stripping

When security policy allows non-TLS sessions, the TCPCL does not protect against active network
attackers. It is possible for an on-path attacker to set the CAN_TLS ﬂag to 0 on either side of the
Contact Header exchange, which will cause the negotiation discussed in Section 4.3 to disable TLS.
This leads to the "SSL Stripping" attack described in

[RFC7457]

.

The purpose of the CAN_TLS ﬂag is to allow the use of the TCPCL on entities that simply do not
have a TLS implementation available. When TLS is available on an entity, it is strongly
encouraged that the security policy disallow non-TLS sessions. This requires that the TLS
handshake occur, regardless of the policy-driven parameters of the handshake and policy-driven
handling of the handshake outcome.

One mechanism to mitigate the possibility of TLS Stripping is the use of DNS-based Authentication
of Named Entities (DANE)
is unidirectional, so it doesn't help with applying policy toward the active peer, but it can be useful
in an environment using opportunistic security. The conﬁguration and use of DANE are outside of
the scope of this document.

 toward the passive peer. This mechanism relies on DNS and

[RFC6698]

The negotiated use of TLS is identical in behavior to the use of STARTTLS as described in
,
[RFC2595] [RFC4511]

, and others.

7.5.  Threat: Weak TLS Conﬁgurations

Even when using TLS to secure the TCPCL session, the actual cipher suite negotiated between the
TLS peers can be insecure. Recommendations for using cipher suites are included in
[RFC7525]
cipher suite meets transport security requirements.

. It is up to security policies within each TCPCL entity to ensure that the negotiated TLS

BCP 195

7.6.  Threat: Untrusted End-Entity Certiﬁcate

The authentication method discussed in Section 4.4.4 uses end-entity certiﬁcates chained to a
trusted root CA. During a TLS handshake, either entity can send a certiﬁcate set that does not
contain the full chain, possibly excluding intermediate or root CAs. In an environment where
peers are known to already contain needed root and intermediate CAs, there is no need to
include those CAs, but this carries the risk of an entity not actually having one of the needed CAs.

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 46

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

7.7.  Threat: Certiﬁcate Validation Vulnerabilities

Even when TLS itself is operating properly, an attacker can attempt to exploit vulnerabilities
within certiﬁcate check algorithms or conﬁguration to establish a secure TCPCL session using an
invalid certiﬁcate. A BPA treats the peer node ID within a TCPCL session as authoritative, and
exploitation via an invalid certiﬁcate could lead to bundle data leaking and/or denial of service
to the node ID being impersonated.

[RFC5280]

There are many reasons, as described in
validate, including using the certiﬁcate outside of its valid time interval, using purposes for which
it was not authorized, or using it after it has been revoked by its CA. Validating a certiﬁcate is a
complex task and can require network connectivity outside of the primary TCPCL network
path(s) if a mechanism such as OCSP
[RFC6960]
particular certiﬁcate validation methods are outside of the scope of this document.

 is used by the CA. The conﬁguration and use of

, why a certiﬁcate can fail to

[RFC6125]

 and

7.8.  Threat: Symmetric Key Limits

Even with a secure block cipher and securely established session keys, there are limits to the
amount of plaintext that can be safely encrypted with a given set of keys, as described in
LIMITS]
advantage of session key updates to avoid those limits.

. When permitted by the negotiated TLS version (see

), it is advisable to take

[RFC8446]

[AEAD-

7.9.  Threat: BP Node Impersonation

The certiﬁcates exchanged by TLS enable authentication of the peer DNS name and node ID, but it
is possible that either a peer does not provide a valid certiﬁcate or the certiﬁcate does not
validate either the DNS-ID/IPADDR-ID or NODE-ID of the peer (see Section 3.4). Having a CA-
validated certiﬁcate does not alone guarantee the identity of the network host or BP node from
which the certiﬁcate is provided; additional validation procedures as provided in Section 4.4.4
bind the DNS-ID/IPADDR-ID or NODE-ID based on the contents of the certiﬁcate.

The DNS-ID/IPADDR-ID validation is a weaker form of authentication, because even if a peer is
operating on an authenticated network DNS name or IP address it can provide an invalid node
ID and cause bundles to be "leaked" to an invalid node. Especially in DTN environments, network
names and addresses of nodes can be time-variable, so binding a certiﬁcate to a node ID results
in a more stable identity.

NODE-ID validation ensures that the peer to which a bundle is transferred is in fact the node that
the BPA expects it to be. In circumstances where certiﬁcates can only be issued to DNS names,
node ID validation is not possible, but it could be reasonable to assume that a trusted host is not
going to present an invalid node ID. Determining when a DNS-ID/IPADDR-ID authentication can
be trusted to validate a node ID is also a policy matter outside of the scope of this document.

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 47

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

One mitigation regarding arbitrary entities with valid PKIX certiﬁcates impersonating arbitrary
node IDs is the use of the PKIX EKU key purpose id-kp-bundleSecurity (Section 4.4.2.1). When
this EKU is present in the certiﬁcate, it represents a stronger assertion that the private key holder
should in fact be trusted to operate as a bundle node.

7.10.  Threat: Denial of Service

The behaviors described in this section all amount to a potential denial of service to a TCPCL
entity. The denial of service could be limited to an individual TCPCL session, could aﬀect other
well-behaved sessions on an entity, or could aﬀect all sessions on a host.

A malicious entity can trigger timeouts by continually establishing TCPCL sessions and delaying
the sending of protocol-required data. The victim entity can block TCP connections from network
peers that are thought to behave incorrectly within the TCPCL.

An entity can send a large amount of data over a TCPCL session, requiring the receiving entity to
handle the data. The victim entity can attempt to stop the ﬂood of data by sending a
XFER_REFUSE message or can forcibly terminate the session.

A "data dribble" attack is also possible, in which an entity presents a very small Segment MRU
that causes transfers to be split among a large number of very small segments and causes the
resultant segmentation overhead to overwhelm the actual bundle data segments. Similarly, an
entity can present a very small Transfer MRU that will cause resources to be wasted on
establishment and upkeep of a TCPCL session over which a bundle could never be transferred.
The victim entity can terminate the session during parameter negotiation (Section 4.7) if the
MRUs are unacceptable.

An abusive entity could cause the keepalive mechanism to waste throughput within a network
link that would otherwise be usable for bundle transmissions. Due to the quantization of the
Keepalive Interval parameter, the smallest Session Keepalive is one second, which should be long
enough to not ﬂood the link. The victim entity can terminate the session during parameter
negotiation (Section 4.7) if the Keepalive Interval is unacceptable.

Finally, an attacker or a misconﬁgured entity can cause issues at the TCP connection that will
cause unnecessary TCP retransmissions or connection resets, eﬀectively denying the use of the
overlying TCPCL session.

7.11.  Mandatory-to-Implement TLS

Following IETF best current practice, TLS is mandatory to implement for all TCPCL
implementations but TLS is optional to use for a given TCPCL session. The policy
recommendations in Sections 4.2 and 4.3 both enable TLS and require TLS, but entities are
permitted to disable and not require TLS based on local conﬁguration. The conﬁguration to
enable or require TLS for an entity or a session is outside of the scope of this document. The
conﬁguration to disable TLS is diﬀerent from the threat of TLS Stripping as described in Section
7.4.

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 48

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

7.12.  Alternate Uses of TLS

This speciﬁcation makes use of PKIX certiﬁcate validation and authentication within TLS. There
are alternate uses of TLS that are not necessarily incompatible with the security goals of this
speciﬁcation but that are outside of the scope of this document. The following subsections give
examples of alternate TLS uses.

7.12.1.  TLS without Authentication

In environments where PKI is available but there are restrictions on the issuance of certiﬁcates
(including the contents of certiﬁcates), it may be possible to make use of TLS in a way that
authenticates only the passive entity of a TCPCL session or that does not authenticate either
entity. Using TLS in a way that does not successfully authenticate some claim of both peer entities
of a TCPCL session is outside of the scope of this document but does have properties similar to the
opportunistic security model

[RFC7435]

.

7.12.2.  Non-certiﬁcate TLS Use

In environments where PKI is unavailable, alternate uses of TLS that do not require certiﬁcates
[RFC7250]
such as pre-shared key (PSK) authentication
are available and can be used to ensure conﬁdentiality within the TCPCL. Using non-PKI node
authentication methods is outside of the scope of this document.

 and the use of raw public keys

[RFC5489]

7.13.  Predictability of Transfer IDs

The only requirement on Transfer IDs is that they be unique within each session from the sending
peer only. The trivial algorithm of the ﬁrst transfer starting at zero and later transfers
incrementing by one causes absolutely predictable Transfer IDs. Even when a TCPCL session is
not TLS secured and there is an on-path attacker causing denial of service with XFER_REFUSE
messages, it is not possible to preemptively refuse a transfer, so there is no beneﬁt in having
unpredictable Transfer IDs within a session.

8.  IANA Considerations

Registration procedures referred to in this section (e.g., the RFC Required policy) are deﬁned in
[RFC8126]

.

Some of the registries have been deﬁned as version speciﬁc for TCPCLv4, and these registries
reuse some or all codepoints from TCPCLv3. This was done to disambiguate the use of these
codepoints between TCPCLv3 and TCPCLv4 while preserving the semantics of some of the
codepoints.

8.1.  Port Number

, TCP port
Within the "Service Name and Transport Protocol Port Number Registry"
number 4556 had previously been assigned as the default port for the TCPCL; see
. This
assignment is unchanged by TCPCL version 4, but the assignment reference has been updated to

[IANA-PORTS]

[RFC7242]

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 49

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

point to this speciﬁcation. Each TCPCL entity identiﬁes its TCPCL protocol version in its initial
contact (see Sections 3.2 and 8.2), so there is no ambiguity regarding what protocol is being used.
The related assignments for UDP and DCCP port 4556 (both registered by
unchanged.

[RFC7122]

) are

Parameter

Value

Service Name:

dtn-bundle

Transport Protocol(s):

TCP

Assignee:

Contact:

IESG (iesg@ietf.org)

IESG (iesg@ietf.org)

Description:

DTN Bundle TCP CL Protocol

Reference:

This speciﬁcation

Port Number:

4556

Table 10: TCP Port Number for the TCPCL

8.2.  Protocol Versions

IANA has registered the following value in the "Bundle Protocol TCP Convergence-Layer Version
Numbers" registry

[RFC7242]

.

Value Description

Reference

4

TCPCLv4

This speciﬁcation

Table 11: New TCPCL Version Number

8.3.  Session Extension Types

[IANA-BUNDLE]
Under the "Bundle Protocol" registry
Convergence-Layer Version 4 Session Extension Types" registry and populated it with the
contents of Table 12. The registration procedure is Expert Review within the lower range
0x0001-0x7FFF. Values in the range 0x8000-0xFFFF are reserved for Private or Experimental Use,
which are not recorded by IANA.

, IANA has created the "Bundle Protocol TCP

Speciﬁcations of new session extension types need to deﬁne the encoding of the Item Value data
as well as any meaning or restriction on the number of or order of instances of the type within an
extension item list. Speciﬁcations need to deﬁne how the extension functions when no instance
of the new extension type is received during session negotiation.

Experts are encouraged to be biased towards approving registrations unless they are abusive,
frivolous, or actively harmful (not merely esthetically displeasing or architecturally dubious).

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 50

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

Code

Session Extension Type

0x0000

Reserved

0x0001-0x7FFF

Unassigned

0x8000-0xFFFF

Reserved for Private or Experimental Use

Table 12: Session Extension Type Codes

8.4.  Transfer Extension Types

[IANA-BUNDLE]
Under the "Bundle Protocol" registry
Convergence-Layer Version 4 Transfer Extension Types" registry and populated it with the
contents of Table 13. The registration procedure is Expert Review within the lower range
0x0001-0x7FFF. Values in the range 0x8000-0xFFFF are reserved for Private or Experimental Use,
which are not recorded by IANA.

, IANA has created the "Bundle Protocol TCP

Speciﬁcations of new transfer extension types need to deﬁne the encoding of the Item Value data
as well as any meaning or restriction on the number of or order of instances of the type within an
extension item list. Speciﬁcations need to deﬁne how the extension functions when no instance
of the new extension type is received in a transfer.

Experts are encouraged to be biased towards approving registrations unless they are abusive,
frivolous, or actively harmful (not merely esthetically displeasing or architecturally dubious).

Code

0x0000

0x0001

Transfer Extension Type

Reserved

Transfer Length Extension

0x0002-0x7FFF

Unassigned

0x8000-0xFFFF

Reserved for Private or Experimental Use

Table 13: Transfer Extension Type Codes

8.5.  Message Types

, IANA has created the "Bundle Protocol TCP
Under the "Bundle Protocol" registry
Convergence-Layer Version 4 Message Types" registry and populated it with the contents of Table
14. The registration procedure is RFC Required within the lower range 0x01-0xEF. Values in the
range 0xF0-0xFF are reserved for Private or Experimental Use, which are not recorded by IANA.

[IANA-BUNDLE]

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 51

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

Speciﬁcations of new message types need to deﬁne the encoding of the message data as well as
the purpose and relationship of the new message to existing session/transfer state within the
baseline message sequencing. The use of new message types needs to be negotiated between
TCPCL entities within a session (using the session extension mechanism) so that the receiving
entity can properly decode all message types used in the session.

Experts are encouraged to favor new session/transfer extension types over new message types.
TCPCL messages are not self-delimiting, so care must be taken in introducing new message types.
If an entity receives an unknown message type, the only thing that can be done is to send a
MSG_REJECT and close the TCP connection; not even a clean termination can be done at that
point.

Code

Message Type

0x00

0x01

0x02

0x03

0x04

0x05

0x06

0x07

Reserved

XFER_SEGMENT

XFER_ACK

XFER_REFUSE

KEEPALIVE

SESS_TERM

MSG_REJECT

SESS_INIT

0x08-0xEF

Unassigned

0xF0-0xFF

Reserved for Private or Experimental Use

Table 14: Message Type Codes

8.6.  XFER_REFUSE Reason Codes

Under the "Bundle Protocol" registry
Convergence-Layer Version 4 XFER_REFUSE Reason Codes" registry and populated it with the
contents of Table 15. The registration procedure is Speciﬁcation Required within the lower range
0x00-0xEF. Values in the range 0xF0-0xFF are reserved for Private or Experimental Use, which are
not recorded by IANA.

, IANA has created the "Bundle Protocol TCP

[IANA-BUNDLE]

Speciﬁcations of new XFER_REFUSE reason codes need to deﬁne the meaning of the reason and
disambiguate it from preexisting reasons. Each refusal reason needs to be usable by the receiving
BPA to make retransmission or rerouting decisions.

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 52

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

Experts are encouraged to be biased towards approving registrations unless they are abusive,
frivolous, or actively harmful (not merely esthetically displeasing or architecturally dubious).

Code

Refusal Reason

0x00

0x01

0x02

0x03

0x04

0x05

0x06

Unknown

Completed

No Resources

Retransmit

Not Acceptable

Extension Failure

Session Terminating

0x07-0xEF

Unassigned

0xF0-0xFF

Reserved for Private or Experimental Use

Table 15: XFER_REFUSE Reason Codes

8.7.  SESS_TERM Reason Codes

[IANA-BUNDLE]
Under the "Bundle Protocol" registry
Convergence-Layer Version 4 SESS_TERM Reason Codes" registry and populated it with the
contents of Table 16. The registration procedure is Speciﬁcation Required within the lower range
0x00-0xEF. Values in the range 0xF0-0xFF are reserved for Private or Experimental Use, which are
not recorded by IANA.

, IANA has created the "Bundle Protocol TCP

Speciﬁcations of new SESS_TERM reason codes need to deﬁne the meaning of the reason and
disambiguate it from preexisting reasons. Each termination reason needs to be usable by the
receiving BPA to make reconnection decisions.

Experts are encouraged to be biased towards approving registrations unless they are abusive,
frivolous, or actively harmful (not merely esthetically displeasing or architecturally dubious).

Code

Termination Reason

0x00

0x01

0x02

0x03

Unknown

Idle timeout

Version mismatch

Busy

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 53

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

Code

Termination Reason

0x04

0x05

Contact Failure

Resource Exhaustion

0x06-0xEF

Unassigned

0xF0-0xFF

Reserved for Private or Experimental Use

Table 16: SESS_TERM Reason Codes

8.8.  MSG_REJECT Reason Codes

[IANA-BUNDLE]
Under the "Bundle Protocol" registry
Convergence-Layer Version 4 MSG_REJECT Reason Codes" registry and populated it with the
contents of Table 17. The registration procedure is Speciﬁcation Required within the lower range
0x01-0xEF. Values in the range 0xF0-0xFF are reserved for Private or Experimental Use, which are
not recorded by IANA.

, IANA has created the "Bundle Protocol TCP

Speciﬁcations of new MSG_REJECT reason codes need to deﬁne the meaning of the reason and
disambiguate it from preexisting reasons. Each rejection reason needs to be usable by the
receiving TCPCL entity to make message sequencing and/or session termination decisions.

Experts are encouraged to be biased towards approving registrations unless they are abusive,
frivolous, or actively harmful (not merely esthetically displeasing or architecturally dubious).

Code

Rejection Reason

0x00

0x01

0x02

0x03

Reserved

Message Type Unknown

Message Unsupported

Message Unexpected

0x04-0xEF

Unassigned

0xF0-0xFF

Reserved for Private or Experimental Use

Table 17: MSG_REJECT Reason Codes

8.9.  Object Identiﬁer for PKIX Module Identiﬁer

IANA has registered the following in the "SMI Security for PKIX Module Identiﬁer" registry
SMI]

 for identifying the module described in Appendix B.

[IANA-

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 54

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

Decimal Description

References

103

id-mod-dtn-tcpclv4-2021

This speciﬁcation

Table 18: New SMI Security Module

8.10.  Object Identiﬁer for PKIX Other Name Forms

IANA has registered the following in the "SMI Security for PKIX Other Name Forms" registry
[IANA-SMI]

 for identifying bundle endpoint IDs:

Decimal Description

References

11

id-on-bundleEID

This speciﬁcation

Table 19: New PKIX Other Name Form

The formal structure of the associated Other Name Form is provided in Appendix B. The use of this
OID is deﬁned in Sections 4.4.1 and 4.4.2.

8.11.  Object Identiﬁer for PKIX Extended Key Usage

IANA has registered the following in the "SMI Security for PKIX Extended Key Purpose" registry
[IANA-SMI]

 for securing BP bundles.

Decimal Description

References

35

id-kp-bundleSecurity

This speciﬁcation

Table 20: New PKIX Extended Key Purpose

The formal deﬁnition of this EKU is provided in Appendix B. The use of this OID is deﬁned in
Section 4.4.2.

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[IANA-BUNDLE]

IANA "Bundle Protocol" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/bundle/>
.

,

,

[IANA-PORTS]

[IANA-SMI]

[RFC0793]

,

IANA "Service Name and Transport Protocol Port Number Registry" <https://
www.iana.org/assignments/service-names-port-numbers/>
.

,

,

IANA "Structure of Management Information (SMI) Numbers (MIB Module
Registrations)" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/smi-numbers/>
.

,

Postel, J. "Transmission Control Protocol" STD 7 RFC 793 DOI 10.17487/RFC0793
,
,
September 1981,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc793>
.

,

,

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 55

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

[RFC1122]

[RFC2119]

[RFC3986]

[RFC5280]

[RFC6066]

[RFC6125]

[RFC6960]

[RFC7525]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8446]

[RFC9171]

,

Braden, R., Ed. "Requirements for Internet Hosts - Communication Layers" STD
3 RFC 1122 DOI 10.17487/RFC1122
.
rfc1122>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, October 1989,

,

,

,

,

,
Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
.
rfc2119>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

, and
Berners-Lee, T. Fielding, R.
,
,
Generic Syntax" STD 66 RFC 3986 DOI 10.17487/RFC3986
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3986>

L. Masinter "Uniform Resource Identiﬁer (URI):
<https://

, January 2005,

,

,

,

,

,
W. Polk "Internet
Cooper, D. Santesson, S. Farrell, S. Boeyen, S. Housley, R.
X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certiﬁcate and Certiﬁcate Revocation List (CRL)
Proﬁle" RFC 5280 DOI 10.17487/RFC5280
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/
.
info/rfc5280>

, May 2008,

, and

,

,

,

,

,

Eastlake 3rd, D. "Transport Layer Security (TLS) Extensions: Extension
,
,
Deﬁnitions" RFC 6066 DOI 10.17487/RFC6066
.
editor.org/info/rfc6066>

, January 2011,

<https://www.rfc-

,

 and

J. Hodges "Representation and Veriﬁcation of Domain-Based

Saint-Andre, P.
Application Service Identity within Internet Public Key Infrastructure Using X.
509 (PKIX) Certiﬁcates in the Context of Transport Layer Security (TLS)" RFC
,
6125 DOI 10.17487/RFC6125
.
rfc6125>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, March 2011,

,

,

Santesson, S. Myers, M. Ankney, R. Malpani, A. Galperin, S.
,
509 Internet Public Key Infrastructure Online Certiﬁcate Status Protocol - OCSP"
,
RFC 6960 DOI 10.17487/RFC6960
.
rfc6960>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

C. Adams "X.

, June 2013,

, and

,

,

,

, and

P. Saint-Andre "Recommendations for Secure Use of

,
Sheﬀer, Y. Holz, R.
,
Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)"
BCP 195 RFC 7525 DOI 10.17487/RFC7525
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/
.
info/rfc7525>

, May 2015,

,

,

,

,
Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

, June

,
,
Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
.
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,
,
Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>

, August 2018,

,

Burleigh, S. Fall, K.
10.17487/RFC9171

,

, and

E. Birrane, III "Bundle Protocol Version 7" RFC 9171 DOI
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9171>

,

,

,

, January 2022,

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 56

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

[X.680]

,

ITU-T "Information technology - Abstract Syntax Notation One (ASN.1):
Speciﬁcation of basic notation" ITU-T Recommendation X.680, ISO/IEC
8824-1:2021

<https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.680-202102-I/en>
.

, February 2021,

,

9.2.  Informative References

[AEAD-LIMITS]

[RFC2595]

[RFC3552]

[RFC4511]

[RFC4838]

[RFC5489]

[RFC5912]

[RFC6698]

[RFC7122]

[RFC7242]

[RFC7250]

Luykx, A.
August 2017,

 and

K. Paterson "Limits on Authenticated Encryption Use in TLS"
,

,

<https://www.isg.rhul.ac.uk/~kp/TLS-AEbounds.pdf>
.

Newman, C. "Using TLS with IMAP, POP3 and ACAP" RFC 2595 DOI 10.17487/
RFC2595

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2595>

, June 1999,

,

,

 and
Rescorla, E.
B. Korver "Guidelines for Writing RFC Text on Security
,
,
Considerations" BCP 72 RFC 3552 DOI 10.17487/RFC3552
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3552>

, July 2003,

,

,

<https://

,
Sermersheim, J., Ed. "Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP): The
,
Protocol" RFC 4511 DOI 10.17487/RFC4511
.
info/rfc4511>

, June 2006,

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

,

Cerf, V. Burleigh, S. Hooke, A. Torgerson, L. Durst, R. Scott, K. Fall, K.
Weiss "Delay-Tolerant Networking Architecture" RFC 4838 DOI 10.17487/
RFC4838

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4838>

, April 2007,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

, and

H.

 and

Badra, M.
,
(TLS)" RFC 5489 DOI 10.17487/RFC5489
.
info/rfc5489>

,

,

I. Hajjeh "ECDHE_PSK Cipher Suites for Transport Layer Security
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, March 2009,

 and

,
Hoﬀman, P.
Using X.509 (PKIX)" RFC 5912 DOI 10.17487/RFC5912
.
editor.org/info/rfc5912>

J. Schaad "New ASN.1 Modules for the Public Key Infrastructure
<https://www.rfc-

, June 2010,

,

,

 and

J. Schlyter "The DNS-Based Authentication of Named Entities

Hoﬀman, P.
(DANE) Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol: TLSA" RFC 6698 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6698

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6698>

, August 2012,

,

,

,

,

, and

S. Ostermann "Datagram Convergence Layers for the

Kruse, H. Jero, S.
Delay- and Disruption-Tolerant Networking (DTN) Bundle Protocol and Licklider
,
Transmission Protocol (LTP)" RFC 7122 DOI 10.17487/RFC7122
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7122>

, March 2014,

,

,

,

Demmer, M. Ott, J.
,
Convergence-Layer Protocol" RFC 7242 DOI 10.17487/RFC7242
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7242>

S. Perreault "Delay-Tolerant Networking TCP

, and

,

,

, June 2014,

,

Wouters, P., Ed. Tschofenig, H., Ed. Gilmore, J. Weiler, S.
Raw Public Keys in Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport
,
Layer Security (DTLS)" RFC 7250 DOI 10.17487/RFC7250
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7250>

, June 2014,

<https://

T. Kivinen "Using

, and

,

,

,

,

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 57

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

[RFC7435]

[RFC7457]

[RFC8555]

[RFC9172]

[DTN-BIBECT]

,
Dukhovni, V. "Opportunistic Security: Some Protection Most of the Time" RFC
,
7435 DOI 10.17487/RFC7435
rfc7435>
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, December 2014,

,

P. Saint-Andre "Summarizing Known Attacks on
Sheﬀer, Y. Holz, R.
,
Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram TLS (DTLS)" RFC 7457 DOI
10.17487/RFC7457

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7457>
.

, February 2015,

, and

,

,

,

,

Barnes, R. Hoﬀman-Andrews, J. McCarney, D.
,
Certiﬁcate Management Environment (ACME)" RFC 8555 DOI 10.17487/RFC8555
March 2019,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8555>

J. Kasten "Automatic

, and
,

,

,

,

Birrane, III, E.
DOI 10.17487/RFC9172

,
K. McKeever "Bundle Protocol Security (BPSec)" RFC 9172
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9172>

, January 2022,

 and

,

,

,
Burleigh, S. "Bundle-in-Bundle Encapsulation" Work in Progress Internet-Draft,
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/
draft-ietf-dtn-bibect-03
.
draft-ietf-dtn-bibect-03>

, 18 February 2020,

,

,

Appendix A.  Signiﬁcant Changes from RFC 7242

The areas in which changes from
are as follows:

[RFC7242]

 have been made to existing headers and messages

•

Split Contact Header into pre-TLS protocol negotiation and SESS_INIT parameter negotiation.
The Contact Header is now ﬁxed length.

•

Changed Contact Header content to limit number of negotiated options.

•

Added session option to negotiate maximum segment size (per each direction).

•

Renamed "endpoint ID" to "node ID" to conform with BPv7 terminology.

•

Added session extension capability.

•

Added transfer extension capability. Moved transfer total length into an extension item.

•

Deﬁned new IANA registries for message / type / reason codes to allow renaming some codes
for clarity.

•

Pointed out that segments of all new IANA registries are reserved for private/experimental
use.

•

Expanded Message Header to octet-aligned ﬁelds instead of bit-packing.

•

Added a bundle transfer identiﬁcation number to all bundle-related messages
(XFER_SEGMENT, XFER_ACK, XFER_REFUSE).

•

Added ﬂags in XFER_ACK to mirror ﬂags from XFER_SEGMENT.

•

Removed all uses of Self-Delimiting Numeric Value (SDNV) ﬁelds and replaced with ﬁxed-bit-
length (network byte order) ﬁelds.

•

Renamed SHUTDOWN to SESS_TERM to deconﬂict term "shutdown" related to TCP
connections.

•

Removed the notion of a reconnection delay parameter.

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 58

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

The areas in which extensions from
follows:

[RFC7242]

 have been made as new messages and codes are as

•

Added MSG_REJECT message to indicate that an unknown or unhandled message was
received.

•

Added TLS connection security mechanism.

•

Added "Not Acceptable", "Extension Failure", and "Session Terminating" XFER_REFUSE reason
codes.

•

Added "Contact Failure" (contact negotiation failure) and "Resource Exhaustion" SESS_TERM
reason codes.

Appendix B.  ASN.1 Module

The following ASN.1 module formally speciﬁes the BundleEID structure, its Other Name Form,
. This speciﬁcation uses the ASN.1
and the bundleSecurity EKU, using ASN.1 syntax per
deﬁnitions from

 with the 2002 ASN.1 notation used in that document.

[RFC5912]

[X.680]

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 59

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

<CODE BEGINS>
DTN-TCPCLv4-2021
  { iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6)
    internet(1) security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) id-mod(0)
    id-mod-dtn-tcpclv4-2021(103) }

DEFINITIONS IMPLICIT TAGS ::=
BEGIN

IMPORTS
  OTHER-NAME
  FROM PKIX1Implicit-2009 -- [RFC5912]
    { iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1)
      security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) id-mod(0)
      id-mod-pkix1-implicit-02(59) }

  id-pkix
  FROM PKIX1Explicit-2009 -- [RFC5912]
    { iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1)
      security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) id-mod(0)
      id-mod-pkix1-explicit-02(51) } ;

id-kp OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { id-pkix 3 }

id-on OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { id-pkix 8 }

DTNOtherNames OTHER-NAME ::= { on-bundleEID, ... }

-- The otherName definition for BundleEID
on-bundleEID OTHER-NAME ::= {
    BundleEID IDENTIFIED BY { id-on-bundleEID }
}

id-on-bundleEID OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { id-on 11 }

-- Same encoding as GeneralName of uniformResourceIdentifier
BundleEID ::= IA5String

-- The Extended Key Usage key for bundle security
id-kp-bundleSecurity OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { id-kp 35 }

END

<CODE ENDS>

Appendix C.  Example of the BundleEID Other Name Form

This non-normative example demonstrates an otherName with a name form of BundleEID to
encode the node ID "dtn://example/".

The hexadecimal form of the DER encoding of the otherName is as follows:

a01c06082b0601050507080ba010160e64746e3a2f2f6578616d706c652f

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 60

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

And the text decoding in Figure 28 is an output of Peter Gutmann's "dumpasn1" program.

  0  28: [0] {
  2   8:   OBJECT IDENTIFIER '1 3 6 1 5 5 7 8 11'
 12  16:   [0] {
 14  14:     IA5String 'dtn://example/'
       :     }
       :   }

Figure 28: Visualized Decoding of the on-bundleEID

Acknowledgments

This speciﬁcation is based on comments regarding the implementation of
by

Scott Burleigh
.

[RFC7242]

 as provided

The ASN.1 module and its Other Name Form are based on a recommendation provided by
Housley

.

Russ

Authors' Addresses

Brian Sipos
RKF Engineering Solutions, LLC
7500 Old Georgetown Road
Suite 1275
Bethesda MD 20814-6198
,
United States of America
Email:

 brian.sipos+ietf@gmail.com

Michael Demmer
Email:

 demmer@gmail.com

Jörg Ott
Technical University of Munich
Department of Informatics
Chair of Connected Mobility
Boltzmannstrasse 3
DE-85748 Garching
Germany
Email:

 ott@in.tum.de

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 61

RFC 9174

DTN TCPCLv4

January 2022

Simon Perreault
LogMeIn
410 boulevard Charest Est
Suite 250
Quebec QC G1K 8G3
Canada
Email:

 simon.perreault@logmein.com

Sipos, et al.

Standards Track

Page 62

