Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9893
Standards Track
January 2026
2070-1721

B. Cheng
MIT Lincoln Laboratory

E. Kinzie, Ed.
LabN Consulting, L.L.C.

D. Wiggins

S. Ratliff

L. Berger
LabN Consulting, L.L.C.

RFC 9893
Dynamic Link Exchange Protocol (DLEP) Credit-
Based Flow Control Messages and Data Items

Abstract

This document defines new Dynamic Link Exchange Protocol (DLEP) Data Items that are used to
support credit-based flow control. Credit window flow control is used to regulate when data may
be sent to an associated virtual or physical queue. These Data Items are extensible and reusable.

This document also defines new messages that support credit window flow control.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9893
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2026 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9893

DLEP Credit-Based Flow Control

January 2026

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Key Words

2.  Credit Window Flow Control

2.1.  Data Plane Considerations

2.2.  Credit Window Messages

2.2.1.  Credit Control Message

2.2.2.  Credit Control Response Message

2.3.  Data Items for the Control of Credit Windows

2.3.1.  Credit Window Initialization

2.3.2.  Credit Window Association

2.3.3.  Credit Window Grant

2.3.4.  Credit Window Status

2.3.5.  Credit Window Request

2.4.  Management Considerations

3.  Compatibility

4.  Security Considerations

5.  IANA Considerations

5.1.  Message Type Values

5.2.  Data Item Values

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

6.2.  Informative References

3

4

5

6

6

7

7

8

8

10

11

13

14

15

16

16

16

16

16

17

17

17

Appendix A.  Example DLEP Credit Flow Control and Traffic Classification Data Item Exchange

18

Acknowledgments

19

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9893

DLEP Credit-Based Flow Control

January 2026

Authors' Addresses

20

1.  Introduction

[RFC8175]

The Dynamic Link Exchange Protocol (DLEP), defined in
, provides the exchange of
link-related control information between DLEP peers. DLEP peers are comprised of a modem
and a router. DLEP defines a base set of mechanisms as well as support for future extensions.
DLEP defines Data Items, which are sets of information that can be reused in DLEP messaging.
The DLEP specification does not include any flow identification beyond DLEP endpoints, nor
does it address flow control capability. Various flow control techniques are theoretically possible
with DLEP. For example, a credit window scheme for destination-specific flow control that
provides aggregate flow control for both modems and routers has been proposed in
Window-Extension]
[RFC8651]
defined in
based flow control is not within the scope of this document.

, and a mechanism referred to as the Control-Plane-Based Pause Extension is
. The use of other flow control mechanisms simultaneously with credit-

[Credit-

Credit-based flow control, as a result of its proactive nature, may offer some advantages over a
pause mechanism. Packet loss resulting from insufficient buffer space is less likely, as a
transmitter does not send packets until the receiver has indicated that there is sufficient buffer
space available.

Figure 1 illustrates a local node consisting of a router and a modem implementing DLEP. DLEP
messages optionally contain a number of Data Items and Sub-Data Items. The Traffic
Classification Data Item provided by the modem is defined in
identified based on information found in a data plane header, and one or more matches are
[RFC9892]
associated with a single flow. As stated in
in a message to provide information on multiple traffic classifiers. Refer to
[RFC2475]

 for general background on traffic classification.

MAY
Section 2.3 of

, more than one Data Item

. In this case, a flow is

[RFC9892]

 be included

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9893

DLEP Credit-Based Flow Control

January 2026

|--------------------Local Node--------------------|
|                                                  |
+-----------------------------+            +-------+
| Router                      |            |Modem  |
|                             |            |Device |{~~~~~~~~} Remote
|                             |            |       | Link      Nodes
| Traffic Classification:     |            |       | Protocol
| Per TID:                    |            |       | (e.g.,
| DSCPs to FID / PCPs to FID  |            |       | 802.11)
|                             | Data Items |       |
| Per Modem: (list of TIDs)   |<---------->|       |
| FID to Credit Window Queues |============|       |
|                             |            |       |
+-----------------------------+            +-------+
                              |            |
                              |----DLEP--- |

DSCP:  Differentiated Services Code Point
FID:  Flow Identifier
PCP:  Priority Code Point
TID:  Traffic Classification Identifier

Figure 1: Router and Modem DLEP Exchange

This document defines DLEP Data Items that provide a flow control mechanism for traffic sent
from a router to a modem. Flow control is provided using one or more logical "credit windows",
each of which will typically be supported by an associated virtual or physical queue. Credit
windows may be shared or dedicated on a per-flow basis. The Data Items are structured to allow
for the reuse of the defined credit-window-based flow control with different traffic classification
techniques. A router logically consumes credits for each credit window matching packet sent.

Note that this document defines common messages, Data Items, and mechanisms that are
reusable. They are expected to be required by DLEP extensions defined in other documents,
such as the extension defined in

[RFC9894]
.

This document introduces support for credit window flow control by defining two new DLEP
messages (Section 2.2) and five new DLEP Data Items (Section 2.3).

Various conditions described in this document cause a message to be logged. In all cases, the log
message results from the contents of a received Data Item defined here. No messages are logged
in response to activity in the data plane.

1.1.  Key Words

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9893

DLEP Credit-Based Flow Control

January 2026

2.  Credit Window Flow Control

This section defines additions to DLEP used in credit-based flow control. The additions provide
the DLEP mechanisms to control credits. Routers then use this information to regulate when
data is sent to a modem.

The credit window flow control mechanisms defined in this document support credit-based flow
control of traffic sent from a router to a modem. The mapping of specific flows to a particular
credit window is based on the Traffic Classification Data Item defined in
DLEP peers -- router and modem -- negotiate the use of an extension employing this mechanism
during session initialization as required; for example, see
windows, data traffic is only allowed to be sent by the router to the modem when there are
credits available.

. When using credit

. Both types of

[RFC9892]

[RFC9894]

Credits are managed on a 'per logical "credit window"' basis. Each credit window can be thought
of as corresponding to a queue within a modem. Credit windows may be shared across, or
dedicated to, destinations and data plane identifiers -- for example, DSCPs -- at a granularity that
is appropriate for a modem's implementation and its attached transmission technology. As
specified in Section 2.3.1, there is a direct one-to-one mapping of credit windows to flows as
identified by Flow Identifiers (FIDs) carried within the Traffic Classification Data Item. Modems
pass to the router information on their credit windows and FIDs prior to a router being able to
send data when an extension requiring the use of credit window flow control is used. Note that
Traffic Classification Identifier (TID) values and FID values are significant only to the issuing
modem. There is no relationship implied by the same TID or FID value being issued by more
than one modem. In addition to the traffic classification information associated with a FID,
modems provide an initial credit window size, as well as the maximum size of the logical queue
associated with each credit window. The maximum size is included for informative and
potential future uses.

Modems provide an initial credit window size at the time of credit window initialization. Such
initialization can take place during session initiation or any point thereafter. It can also take
place when rate information changes. An increment to a credit window size, specified in a Credit
Window Grant Data Item, is provided in a Destination Up Message (Section 2.3.2) or Credit
Control Message (Section 2.2.1). A router provides its view of the credit window, which is known
as "Status", in Destination Up Response Messages (Section 2.3.3) and Credit Control Response
Messages (Section 2.2.2). Routers can also request credits using the Credit Control Message.

When modems provide credits to a router, they will need to take into account any overhead of
their attached transmission technology and map it into the credit semantics defined in this
document. In particular, the credit window is defined below to include per-frame (per-packet)
Media Access Control (MAC) headers, and this may not match the actual overhead of the
modems' attached transmission technology. In that case, a direct mapping or an approximation
will need to be made by the modem to provide appropriate credit values.

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9893

DLEP Credit-Based Flow Control

January 2026

Actual flows of traffic are mapped to credit windows based on flow identification information
provided by modems in the Traffic Classification Data Item defined in
supports traffic classification on a per-destination or more fine-grained level. Routers use the
combination of the DLEP-identified destination and flow information associated with a credit
window in order to match traffic they send to specific credit windows. In some cases, the Traffic
Classification Data Item allows the modem to specify a wildcard to match any packets that do not
match other Data Items; for example, see
not match any of the Data Items and, in this case,

. In the absence of a wildcard, a packet may

 be dropped by the router.

. This Data Item

[RFC9895]

[RFC9892]

MUST

When a destination becomes reachable, a modem "associates" (identifies) the appropriate traffic
classification information via the TID to be used for traffic sent by the router to that destination.
This is supported by the Credit Window Association Data Item, which is carried in Destination
Up and Destination Update Messages; see Section 2.3.2. The TID provides the information to
support router traffic classification, based on the FIDs contained in the TID; see
defined, each credit window has a corresponding FID, so traffic is mapped to a credit window by
locating a matching FID that is contained in the TID that is associated with the traffic's
destination. This means that the use of FIDs and TIDs, and the association of a TID to a DLEP
destination, enable a modem to share or dedicate resources as needed to match the specifics of
its implementation and its attached transmission technology.

[RFC9892]

. As

Credit window flow control as defined in this document has objectives similar to the control
technique described in
. One notable difference from that type of
credit control is that in this document, credits are never provided by the router to the modem.

[Credit-Window-Extension]

2.1.  Data Plane Considerations

MUST NOT

 send data traffic to a modem for forwarding

When credit windowing is used, a router
if there is no matching classifier. If a matching classifier is found, a router
traffic to a modem when there are no credits available in the associated credit window. Section 2
describes how classifiers are associated with destinations and how credit windows are
 ensure that sufficient credits are
associated with classifiers. Additionally, a router
available in the associated credit window for the current data packet before sending that data
packet to the modem. The count of octets in the packet includes MAC overhead. Taking Ethernet
as an example, framing, header, and trailer are all included in this count. This document defines
credit windows in octets, and the credit window is decremented by the number of sent octets.

 send data

MUST NOT

MUST

A router
the traffic classification information provided in the Data Items defined in this document.

 identify the credit window associated with traffic to be sent to a modem based on

MUST

2.2.  Credit Window Messages

This document defines two new messages that support credit window flow control: Credit
Control Messages and Credit Control Response Messages. Sending and receiving both message
types is
document.

 to support the credit window flow control mechanisms defined in this

REQUIRED

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9893

DLEP Credit-Based Flow Control

January 2026

2.2.1.  Credit Control Message

Credit Control Messages are sent by modems and routers. Each sender is only permitted to have
 send
one message outstanding at one time. That is, a sender (either modem or router)
a subsequent Credit Control Message until a Credit Control Response Message has been received
from its peer.

MUST NOT

Credit Control Messages are sent by modems to provide credit window increases. Modems send
credit increases when their transmission or local queue availability exceeds the credit window
value previously provided to the router. Modems will need to balance the load generated by
sending and processing credit window increases against a router having data traffic available to
send but no available credits.

Credit Control Messages
Routers will need to balance the load generated by sending and processing credit window
requests against having data traffic available to send but no available credits.

 be sent by routers to request credits and provide window status.

MAY

The Message Type value in the DLEP Message Header is set to 17.

A Credit Control Message sent by a modem
Data Items as defined in Section 2.3.3. A router receiving this message
Credit Control Response Message.

 contain one or more Credit Window Grant
 respond with a

MUST

MUST

MUST

A Credit Control Message sent by a router
Data Items as defined in Section 2.3.5 and
defined in Section 2.3.4, corresponding to each credit window request. A modem receiving this
message
 respond with a Credit Control Response Message based on the received message
and Data Item and the processing defined in Section 2.2.2, which will typically result in credit
window increments being provided.

 contain one or more Credit Window Request
 contain a Credit Window Status Data Item,

SHOULD

MUST

Specific processing associated with each Credit Data Item is provided in Section 2.3.

2.2.2.  Credit Control Response Message

Credit Control Response Messages are sent by routers to report the current credit window for a
destination. A Credit Control Response Message sent by a router
Credit Window Status Data Items as defined in Section 2.3.4. Specific receive processing
associated with the Credit Window Status Data Item is provided in Section 2.3.4.

 contain one or more

MUST

Credit Control Response Messages sent by modems
Grant Data Items. A Data Item for every Credit Window Request Data Item contained in the
corresponding Credit Control Message received by the modem
Window Grant Data Item
transmission or local queue availability. Specific receive processing associated with each Credit
Window Grant Data Item is provided in Section 2.3.3.

 be included. Each Credit
 provide zero or more additional credits based on the modem's

 contain one or more Credit Window

MUST

MUST

MAY

The Message Type value in the DLEP Message Header is set to 18.

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9893

DLEP Credit-Based Flow Control

January 2026

2.3.  Data Items for the Control of Credit Windows

Five new Data Items are defined to support the control of credit windows:

•

The Credit Window Initialization Data Item (Section 2.3.1) is used by a modem to identify a
credit window and set its size.

•

The Credit Window Association Data Item (Section 2.3.2) is used by a modem to identify
which TIDs (flows) should be used when sending traffic to a particular DLEP-identified
destination.

•

The Credit Window Grant Data Item (Section 2.3.3) is used by a modem to provide additional
credits to a router.

•

The Credit Window Status Data Item (Section 2.3.4) is used to advertise the sender's view of
the number of available credits for state synchronization purposes.

•

The Credit Window Request Data Item (Section 2.3.5) is used by a router to request
additional credits.

Any errors or inconsistencies encountered in parsing Data Items are handled in the same
fashion as any other Data Item parsing error encountered in DLEP; see
the node parsing the Data Item
indicating "Invalid Data".

 terminate the session with a Status Data Item

[RFC8175]

MUST

. In particular,
[RFC8175]

2.3.1.  Credit Window Initialization

As noted above, the Credit Window Initialization Data Item is used by a modem to identify a
credit window and set its size. In order to avoid errors caused by the use of undefined FIDs or
uninitialized credit windows, this Data Item
 be included in any Session Initialization
Response Message that indicates support for any such extension. Updates to previously
identified credit windows or new credit windows
Item in Session Update Messages. More than one Data Item
provide information on multiple credit windows.

 be included in a message to

 be sent by a modem by including the Data

SHOULD

MAY

MAY

The Credit Window Initialization Data Item identifies a credit window using a FID. It also
provides the size of the identified credit window. To be used, a FID must be defined within a
Traffic Classification Data Item, and the associated TID must be provided via a Credit Window
Association Data Item.

The format of the Credit Window Initialization Data Item is as follows:

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9893

DLEP Credit-Based Flow Control

January 2026

     0                   1                   2                   3
     0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    | Data Item Type                | Length (16)                   |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    | Flow Identifier (FID)         |            Reserved           |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                         Credit Value                          |
    |                                                               |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |    Scale      |         Credit Window Max Size                |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Data Item Type:

30

Length:
16

[RFC8175]

As specified in
sixteen (16). If it is some other value, the Data Item is corrupt, so the message in which it
appears cannot be reliably parsed and is ignored.

, Length is the number of octets in the Data Item. It

MUST

 be equal to

Flow Identifier (FID):

A 2-octet flow identifier as defined by the Traffic Classification Data Item
also uniquely identifies a credit window for a specific DLEP session.

[RFC9892]

. The FID

Reserved:

For the Credit Window Initialization Data Item, this reserved field is currently unused. It
 be set to all zeros for this version of the Data Item and is currently ignored on
MUST
reception. This allows for future extensions of the Data Item if needed.

Credit Value:

A 64-bit unsigned integer representing the credits, in octets, to be added to the credit window.
This value includes MAC headers as seen on the link between the modem and router.

Scale:

An 8-bit unsigned integer indicating the scale used in the Credit Window Max Size field. The
valid values are as follows:

Value

Scale

0

1

2

B: Bytes (Octets)

KB: Kilobytes (B/1024)

MB: Megabytes (KB/1024)

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9893

DLEP Credit-Based Flow Control

January 2026

Value

Scale

3

GB: Gigabytes (MB/1024)

Table 1: Valid Scale Field Values

Credit Window Max Size:

A 24-bit unsigned integer representing the maximum size, in the octet scale indicated by the
Scale field, of the associated credit window.

MUST

 ensure that the FID field

A router that receives a Credit Window Initialization Data Item
value has been provided by the modem in a Traffic Classification Data Item carried in either the
current message or a previous message. If the FID cannot be found, the router
information. The method of logging is left to the router implementation. Note that no traffic will
be associated with the credit window in this case. After FID validation, the router
the credit window that is associated with the FID indicated in each received Data Item. If no
 initialize a new credit window using the
associated credit window is found, the router
values carried in the Data Item. When an associated credit window is found, the router
MUST
update the credit window and associated data plane state using the values carried in the Data
Item. If the resultant credit value results in the credit window exceeding the represented Credit
Window Max Size, the Credit Window Max Size field value is used as the new credit window size.

 log this

SHOULD

 locate

MUST

MUST

It is worth noting that such updates can result in a credit window size being reduced -- for
example, due to a transmission rate change on the modem. After sending the Session Update
Message with one or more Credit Window Initialization Data Items that decrease the Credit
Window Max Size, the modem
 continue processing received packets that match the
indicated FIDs, fit within the window for the unmodified Credit Window Max Size, and arrive
before the modem receives the corresponding Session Update Response Message. The modem
 issue additional credits for any affected FID until that FID's associated window has
SHOULD NOT
drained to be less than the new Credit Window Max Size, regardless of when the corresponding
Session Update Response Message is received.

SHOULD

2.3.2.  Credit Window Association

The Credit Window Association Data Item is used by a modem to associate traffic classification
information with a destination. The traffic classification information is identified using a TID
value that has been previously sent by the modem or is listed in a Traffic Classification Data Item
carried in the same message as the Credit Window Association Data Item. TIDs in different credit
windows must not overlap.

A single Credit Window Association Data Item
 be included in every Destination Up and
Destination Update Message sent by a modem when a credit window flow control mechanism
defined in this document is used. Note that a TID will not be used unless it is listed in a Credit
Window Association Data Item.

MUST

The format of the Credit Window Association Data Item is as follows:

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9893

DLEP Credit-Based Flow Control

January 2026

     0                   1                   2                   3
     0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    | Data Item Type                | Length (2)                    |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |Traffic Class. Identifier (TID)|
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Data Item Type:

31

Length:
2

[RFC8175]

As specified in
two (2). If it is some other value, the Data Item is corrupt, so the message in which it appears
cannot be reliably parsed and is ignored.

, Length is the number of octets in the Data Item. It

 be equal to

MUST

Traffic Classification Identifier (TID):

A 16-bit unsigned integer identifying a traffic classification set that has been identified in a
Traffic Classification Data Item; see

[RFC9892]

.

A router that receives a Credit Window Association Data Item
classification information indicated by the received TID. If no corresponding information is
found, the Credit Window Association Data Item
If the traffic classification information is located, the router
state that is associated with the TID and its corresponding FIDs is updated as needed (per Section
2.1). If a router determines that a newly received Data Item results in credit windows with
overlapping TIDs, the Data Item

 be treated as an error as described above.

 be treated as an error as described above.

 ensure that any data plane

 locate the traffic

MUST

MUST

MUST

MUST

2.3.3.  Credit Window Grant

MAY

The Credit Window Grant Data Item is used by a modem to provide credits to a router. One or
more Credit Window Grant Data Items
 be carried in the DLEP Destination Up, Destination
Announce Response, Destination Update, Credit Control, and Credit Control Response Messages.
Multiple Credit Window Grant Data Items may be present in a single message. Each item grants
credits to a different credit window and therefore references a different FID. In all message
types, this Data Item provides an additional number of octets to be added to the indicated credit
window. Credit windows are identified using FID values that have been previously sent by the
modem or are listed in a Credit Window Initialization Data Item carried in the same message as
the Data Item.

The format of the Credit Window Grant Data Item is as follows:

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9893

DLEP Credit-Based Flow Control

January 2026

    0                   1                   2                   3
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   | Data Item Type                | Length (12)                   |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   | Flow Identifier (FID)         |            Reserved           |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                     Additional Credits                        |
   |                                                               |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Data Item Type:

32

Length:
12

[RFC8175]

As specified in
twelve (12). If it is some other value, the Data Item is corrupt, so the message in which it
appears cannot be reliably parsed and is ignored.

, Length is the number of octets in the Data Item. It

MUST

 be equal to

Flow Identifier (FID):

A 2-octet flow identifier as defined by the Traffic Classification Data Item. The FID also
uniquely indicates a credit window.

Reserved:

For the Credit Window Grant Data Item, this reserved field is currently unused. It
 be set
to all zeros for this version of the Data Item and is currently ignored on reception. This allows
for future extensions of the Data Item if needed.

MUST

Additional Credits:

A 64-bit unsigned integer representing the credits, in octets, to be added to the credit window.
This value includes MAC headers as seen on the link between the modem and router. A value
of zero indicates that no additional credits are being provided.

MUST

When receiving this Data Item, a router
the FID is not known to the router, it
method of logging is left to the router implementation. It is important to note that while this
Data Item can be received in a destination-specific message, credit windows are managed
independently of the destination identified in the message carrying this Data Item, and the
indicated FID

 identify the credit window indicated by the FID. If
 log this information and discard the Data Item. The

 even be disjoint from the identified destination.

SHOULD

MAY

Once the credit window is identified, the credit window size
contained in the Additional Credits field. If the increase results in a window overflow, the credit
window must be set to its maximum as defined by the Credit Window Max Size carried in the
Credit Window Initialization Data Item.

 be increased by the value

MUST

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9893

DLEP Credit-Based Flow Control

January 2026

No response is sent by the router to a modem after processing a Credit Window Grant Data Item
received in a Credit Control Response Message. For each Credit Window Grant Data Item
received in other message types, the receiving router
Item reflecting the resultant credit window value of the updated credit windows. When the
Credit Window Grant Data Item is received in a Destination Up Message, the Credit Window
Status Data Item(s)
Otherwise, a Credit Control Message

 be sent in the corresponding Destination Up Response Message.

 send a Credit Window Status Data

 be sent.

MUST

MUST

MUST

2.3.4.  Credit Window Status

The Credit Window Status Data Item is used by a router to report the current credit window size
to its peer modem. One or more Credit Window Status Data Items
Destination Up Response Message or a Credit Control Response Message. As discussed in Section
2.3.3, the Destination Up Response Message is used when the Data Item is sent in response to a
Destination Up Message, and the Credit Control Response Message is sent in response to a Credit
Control Message. Multiple Credit Window Status Data Items in a single message are used to
indicate different sizes of different credit windows. Similar to the Credit Window Grant Data
Item, credit windows are identified using FID values that have been previously sent by the
modem.

 be carried in a

MAY

The format of the Credit Window Status Data Item is as follows:

    0                   1                   2                   3
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   | Data Item Type                | Length (12)                   |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   | Flow Identifier (FID)         |            Reserved           |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                  Current Credit Window Size                   |
   |                                                               |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Data Item Type:

33

Length:
12

[RFC8175]

As specified in
twelve (12). If it is some other value, the Data Item is corrupt, so the message in which it
appears cannot be reliably parsed and is ignored.

, Length is the number of octets in the Data Item. It

MUST

 be equal to

Flow Identifier (FID):

A 2-octet flow identifier as defined by the Traffic Classification Data Item. The FID also
uniquely identifies a credit window.

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9893

DLEP Credit-Based Flow Control

January 2026

Reserved:

For the Credit Window Status Data Item, this reserved field is currently unused. It
 be
set to all zeros for this version of the Data Item and is currently ignored on reception. This
allows for future extensions of the Data Item if needed.

MUST

Current Credit Window Size:

A 64-bit unsigned integer indicating the current number of credits, in octets, available for the
router to send to the modem. This is referred to as the Modem Receive Window in
Window-Extension]

[Credit-

.

When receiving this Data Item, a modem
If the FID is not known to the modem, it
The method of logging is left to the modem implementation. As with the Credit Window Grant
Data Item, the FID
Data Item.

 identify the credit window indicated by the FID.
 log this information and discard the Data Item.

 be unrelated to the destination indicated in the message carrying the

SHOULD

MUST

MAY

SHOULD

 check the received Current Credit

Once the credit window is identified, the modem
Window Size field value against the outstanding credit window's available credits at the time the
most recent Credit Window Initialization or Credit Window Grant Data Item associated with the
indicated FID was sent. If the difference in values is greater than what can be accounted for
based on observed data frames, then the modem
Data Item to reset the associated credit window size to the modem's current view of the
available credits. As specified in Section 2.3.1, Credit Window Initialization Data Items are sent
in Session Update Messages. When multiple Data Items need to be sent, they
combined into a single message when possible. Alternatively, and also in cases where there are
small differences, the modem
 adjust the values sent in Credit Window Grant Data Items to
account for the reported credit window.

 send a Credit Window Initialization

SHOULD

SHOULD

MAY

 be

2.3.5.  Credit Window Request

The Credit Window Request Data Item is used by a router to request additional credits for
particular credit windows. Credit Window Request Data Items are carried in Credit Control
Messages, and one or more Credit Window Request Data Items

 be present in a message.

MAY

Credit windows are identified using a FID as defined in Section 2.3.1. Multiple FIDs
present to allow for the case where the router determines that credits are needed in multiple
credit windows. A special FID value, as defined below, is used to indicate that a credit window
request is being made across all queues.

MAY

 be

The format of the Credit Window Request Data Item is as follows:

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9893

DLEP Credit-Based Flow Control

January 2026

    0                   1                   2                   3
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   | Data Item Type                | Length                        |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   | Flow Identifier (FID) [1]     | Flow Identifier (FID) [2]     |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |               ...             | Flow Identifier (FID) [n]     |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Data Item Type:

34

Length:

Variable

[RFC8175]

, Length is the number of octets in the Data Item, excluding the Data

As specified in
Item Type and Length fields. It is equal to the number of FID fields carried in the Data Item
times 2 and
 be at least 2. If it is less than 2, the Data Item is corrupt, so the message in
which it appears cannot be reliably parsed and is ignored.

MUST

Flow Identifier (FID):

A 2-octet flow identifier as defined by the Traffic Classification Data Item. The FID also
uniquely identifies a credit window. The special value 0xFFFF indicates that the request
applies to all FIDs. When this special value is included, all other FID values included in the
Data Item are redundant, as the special value indicates all FIDs.

 provide a credit window increment for the indicated
A modem receiving this Data Item
credit windows via Credit Window Grant Data Items carried in a new Credit Control Message.
 be combined into a single Credit Control Message
Multiple values and queue indexes
when possible. Unknown FID values
 be logged and then ignored by the modem. The
method of logging is left to the modem implementation.

SHOULD

SHOULD

MUST

2.4.  Management Considerations

This section provides several network management guidelines for implementations supporting
the credit window flow control mechanisms defined in this document.

Modems
to a router.

MAY

 support the configuration of the number of credit windows (queues) to advertise

Routers may have limits on the number of queues that they can support. They may even have
limits on supported credit window combinations. For example, per-destination queues may not
be supported at all. When credit window information provided by a modem exceeds the
capabilities of a router, the router
 use a subset of the provided credit windows.
Alternatively, a router
either case, any mismatch in capabilities
management mechanisms, such as the user interface or error logging.

 reset the session and indicate that the extension is not supported. In

 be reported to the user via normal network

SHOULD

SHOULD

MAY

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9893

DLEP Credit-Based Flow Control

January 2026

In all cases, if credit windows are in use, traffic for which credits are not available
sent to the modem by the router.

MUST NOT

 be

3.  Compatibility

The messages and Data Items defined in this document will only be used when extensions
require their use.

The DLEP specification
Items, including those defined in this document.

[RFC8175]

 defines the handling of unexpected appearances of any Data

4.  Security Considerations

[RFC8175]

This document introduces credit window flow control mechanisms for DLEP. These mechanisms
expose vulnerabilities similar to existing DLEP messages. An example of a threat to which flow
control might be susceptible is where a malicious actor masquerading as a DLEP peer could
inject a Credit Window Initialization Data Item that resizes a credit window to a value that
results in a denial of service. Other possible threats are discussed in the Security Considerations
 and are also applicable, but not specific, to flow control. The transport-layer
section of
security mechanisms documented in
time of this writing, can be applied to this document. Implementations following the "networked
deployment" model described in Section
refer to
[RFC8175]
Examples of technologies that can be deployed to secure the Layer 2 link include
and

 for additional details. The Layer 2 security mechanisms documented in
 can also, with some updates, be applied to the mechanisms defined in this document.
[IEEE-802.1AE]

, along with the latest version of

4 ("Implementation Scenarios")

[RFC8175] SHOULD

[IEEE-8802-1X]
.

[RFC8175]

[BCP195]

[BCP195]

 at the

 of

5.  IANA Considerations

5.1.  Message Type Values

IANA has assigned two new values from the "Specification Required" range
DLEP "Message Type Values" registry:

[RFC8126]

 in the

Type Code

Description

17

18

Credit Control

Credit Control Response

Table 2: Message Type Values

5.2.  Data Item Values

IANA has assigned the following values from the "Specification Required" range
DLEP "Data Item Type Values" registry:

[RFC8126]

 in the

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9893

DLEP Credit-Based Flow Control

January 2026

Type Code Description

30

31

32

33

34

Credit Window Initialization

Credit Window Association

Credit Window Grant

Credit Window Status

Credit Window Request

Table 3: Data Item Values

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8175]

[RFC9892]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

,

Ratliff, S. Jury, S. Satterwhite, D. Taylor, R.
Exchange Protocol (DLEP)" RFC 8175 DOI 10.17487/RFC8175
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8175>

B. Berry "Dynamic Link
, June 2017,

, and

,

,

,

,

.

<https://

,

Cheng, B. Wiggins, D. Berger, L.
Protocol (DLEP) Traffic Classification Data Item" RFC 9892 DOI 10.17487/
RFC9892

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9892>

D. Fedyk, Ed. "Dynamic Link Exchange

, January 2026,

, and

,

,

,

,

.

6.2.  Informative References

[BCP195]

Best Current Practice 195,
At the time of writing, this BCP comprises the following:

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/bcp195>
.

Moriarty, K.
DOI 10.17487/RFC8996

 and

S. Farrell "Deprecating TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1" BCP 195 RFC 8996
,

,

,

,

, March 2021,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8996>

.

,

, and

Sheffer, Y. Saint-Andre, P.
,
Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)"
BCP 195 RFC 9325 DOI 10.17487/RFC9325
editor.org/info/rfc9325>

T. Fossati "Recommendations for Secure Use of

, November 2022,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

,

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9893

DLEP Credit-Based Flow Control

January 2026

[Credit-Window-Extension]

Ratliff, S. "Credit Windowing extension for DLEP" Work in

,

,

Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-manet-credit-window-07
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-manet-credit-window-07>

, 13 November 2016,

.

,

[IEEE-802.1AE]

[IEEE-8802-1X]

[RFC2475]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8651]

[RFC9894]

[RFC9895]

,

IEEE "IEEE Standard for Local and metropolitan area networks-Media Access
Control (MAC) Security" DOI 10.1109/IEEESTD.2018.8585421 IEEE Std
802.1AE-2018

<https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8585421>

, December 2018,

,

,

.

,

IEEE "IEEE/ISO/IEC International Standard-Telecommunications and exchange
between information technology systems--Requirements for local and
metropolitan area networks--Part 1X:Port-based network access control" DOI
10.1109/IEEESTD.2021.9650828 IEEE Std 8802-1X-2021
ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9650828>

,
<https://

, December 2021,

,

.

,

Blake, S. Black, D. Carlson, M. Davies, E. Wang, Z.
Architecture for Differentiated Services" RFC 2475 DOI 10.17487/RFC2475
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2475>
December 1998,

W. Weiss "An

, and
,

,
,

,

,

,

.

,

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

, June

Cheng, B. Wiggins, D.
,
(DLEP) Control-Plane-Based Pause Extension" RFC 8651 DOI 10.17487/RFC8651
October 2019,

L. Berger, Ed. "Dynamic Link Exchange Protocol

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8651>

, and

,
.

,

,

,

,

Cheng, B. Wiggins, D. Berger, L.
Exchange Protocol (DLEP) Diffserv Aware Credit Window Extension" RFC 9894
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9894>
DOI 10.17487/RFC9894
.

D. Eastlake 3rd, Ed. "Dynamic Link

, January 2026,

, and

,

,

,

Wiggins, D. Berger, L.
,
Protocol (DLEP) IEEE 802.1Q Aware Credit Window Extension" RFC 9895 DOI
10.17487/RFC9895

D. Eastlake 3rd, Ed. "Dynamic Link Exchange
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9895>

, January 2026,

, and

,

,

.

Appendix A.  Example DLEP Credit Flow Control and Traffic
Classification Data Item Exchange

Figure 2 illustrates a credit flow control and traffic classification exchange between a router and
a modem. The modem will initialize a number of queues with Credit Window Initialization Data
Items, Credit Window Association Data Item(s), and Traffic Classification Data Item(s) included
in DLEP messages as outlined in this document. If the Data Items are successfully validated,
traffic is mapped to the corresponding credit window on the router and forwarded when there
are sufficient credits. Routers can periodically report the status of the credit window. Modems
will send periodic updates with more credits as packets are transmitted. If a router requires
more credits for a particular window, it may request them. This document defines credit
window flow information for FIDs that map to the queues.
 defines the Traffic
Classification Sub-Data Items, such as DSCPs, that map to the FIDs.

[RFC9892]

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9893

DLEP Credit-Based Flow Control

January 2026

Router                                        Modem

  |<----------------DLEP Messages---------------|
  |   Traffic Classification Data Item(s)       |
  |   Credit Window Association Data Item(s)    |
  |   Credit Window Initialization Data Item(s) |
  |                                             |
  |============================================>|
  |   Traffic                                   |
  |                                             |
  |<----------------DLEP Messages---------------|
  |   Credit Window Grant Data Item(s)          | T
  |============================================>| i
  |   Traffic                                   | m
  |                                             | e
  |----------------DLEP Messages--------------->|
  |   Credit Window Status Data Item(s)         | |
  |                                             | V
  |============================================>|
  |   Traffic                                   |
  |                                             |
  |----------------DLEP Messages--------------->|
  |   Credit Window Request Data Item(s)        |
  |                                             |
  |<------------------------------------------- |
  |   Credit Window Grant Data Item(s)          |
  |                                             |
  |============================================>|
  |   Traffic                                   |
  |                                             |

Figure 2: Example DLEP Traffic Classification / Credit Flow Exchange

Acknowledgments

We mourn the loss of
leadership, and personal contributions were critical in the development of this work and DLEP
as a whole. His leadership and friendship shall be missed.

, who passed away on October 22, 2019. His guidance,

Stan Ratliff

We had the honor of working too briefly with
contribution to the IETF and publication of the first and definitive open-source DLEP
implementation have been critical to the acceptance of DLEP. We mourn his passing on
November 26, 2023. We wish to recognize his guidance, leadership, and professional excellence.
We were fortunate to benefit from his leadership and friendship. He shall be missed.

 on this and related DLEP work. His

David Wiggins

Many useful comments were received from contributors to the MANET Working Group, notably
Rick Taylor Ronald in 't Velt David Black
from

 as a result of discussions at IETF 101.

. This document was derived

Donald E. Eastlake

[RFC9894]

, and

,

,

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9893

DLEP Credit-Based Flow Control

January 2026

Authors' Addresses

Bow-Nan Cheng
MIT Lincoln Laboratory
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
244 Wood Street
Lexington MA 02421-6426
United States of America
Email:
bcheng@ll.mit.edu

,

David Wiggins

Stan Ratliff

Lou Berger
LabN Consulting, L.L.C.
Email:

lberger@labn.net

editor
)

Eric Kinzie (
LabN Consulting, L.L.C.
Email:

ekinzie@labn.net

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

