Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9252
Standards Track
July 2022
2070-1721
G. Dawra,
LinkedIn

K. Talaulikar,
Cisco Systems

 Ed.

 Ed.

R. Raszuk
NTT Network Innovations

B. Decraene
Orange

S. Zhuang
Huawei Technologies

J. Rabadan
Nokia

RFC 9252
BGP Overlay Services Based on Segment Routing over
IPv6 (SRv6)

Abstract

This document deﬁnes procedures and messages for SRv6-based BGP services, including Layer 3
Virtual Private Network (L3VPN), Ethernet VPN (EVPN), and Internet services. It builds on "BGP/
MPLS IP Virtual Private Networks (VPNs)" (RFC 4364) and "BGP MPLS-Based Ethernet VPN" (RFC
7432).

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

.
https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9252

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Dawra, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9252

SRv6-Based BGP Overlay Services

July 2022

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

2.  SRv6 Services TLVs

3.  SRv6 Service Sub-TLVs

3.1.  SRv6 SID Information Sub-TLV

3.2.  SRv6 Service Data Sub-Sub-TLVs

3.2.1.  SRv6 SID Structure Sub-Sub-TLV

4.  Encoding SRv6 SID Information

5.  BGP-Based L3 Service over SRv6

5.1.  IPv4 VPN over SRv6 Core

5.2.  IPv6 VPN over SRv6 Core

5.3.  Global IPv4 over SRv6 Core

5.4.  Global IPv6 over SRv6 Core

6.  BGP-Based Ethernet VPN (EVPN) over SRv6

6.1.  Ethernet Auto-Discovery Route over SRv6 Core

6.1.1.  Ethernet A-D per ES Route

6.1.2.  Ethernet A-D per EVI Route

6.2.  MAC/IP Advertisement Route over SRv6 Core

6.2.1.  MAC/IP Advertisement Route with MAC Only

6.2.2.  MAC/IP Advertisement Route with MAC+IP

6.3.  Inclusive Multicast Ethernet Tag Route over SRv6 Core

6.4.  Ethernet Segment Route over SRv6 Core

6.5.  IP Preﬁx Route over SRv6 Core

6.6.  EVPN Multicast Routes (Route Types 6, 7, and 8) over SRv6 Core

7.  Error Handling

Dawra, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9252

SRv6-Based BGP Overlay Services

July 2022

8.  IANA Considerations

8.1.  BGP Preﬁx-SID TLV Types Registry

8.2.  SRv6 Service Sub-TLV Types Registry

8.3.  SRv6 Service Data Sub-Sub-TLV Types Registry

8.4.  BGP SRv6 Service SID Flags Registry

8.5.  SAFI Values Registry

9.  Security Considerations

9.1.  Considerations Related to BGP Sessions

9.2.  Considerations Related to BGP Services

9.3.  Considerations Related to SR over IPv6 Data Plane

10. References

10.1.  Normative References

10.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

SRv6 refers to Segment Routing instantiated on the IPv6 data plane

[RFC8402]

.

BGP is used to advertise the reachability of preﬁxes of a particular service from an egress
Provider Edge (PE) to ingress PE nodes.

SRv6-based BGP services refer to the Layer 3 (L3) and Layer 2 (L2) overlay services with BGP as the
control plane and SRv6 as the data plane. This document deﬁnes procedures and messages for
SRv6-based BGP services, including L3VPN, EVPN, and Internet services. It builds on "BGP/MPLS IP
Virtual Private Networks (VPNs)"

 and "BGP MPLS-Based Ethernet VPN"

[RFC7432]

[RFC4364]

.

SRv6 SID refers to an SRv6 Segment Identiﬁer, as deﬁned in

[RFC8402]

.

SRv6 Service SID refers to an SRv6 SID associated with one of the service-speciﬁc SRv6 Endpoint
Behaviors on the advertising PE router, such as (but not limited to) End.DT (look up in the Virtual
Routing and Forwarding (VRF) table) or End.DX (cross-connect to a next hop) behaviors in the
case of L3VPN service, as deﬁned in
messages between PEs may carry SRv6 Service SIDs to interconnect PEs and form VPNs.

. This document describes how existing BGP

[RFC8986]

Dawra, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9252

SRv6-Based BGP Overlay Services

July 2022

To provide SRv6 service with best-eﬀort connectivity, the egress PE signals an SRv6 Service SID
with the BGP overlay service route. The ingress PE encapsulates the payload in an outer IPv6
header where the destination address is the SRv6 Service SID provided by the egress PE. The
underlay between the PEs only needs to support plain IPv6 forwarding

[RFC8200]

.

[RFC9012]

To provide SRv6 service in conjunction with an underlay Service Level Agreement (SLA) from the
ingress PE to the egress PE, the egress PE colors the overlay service route with a Color Extended
 for steering ﬂows for those routes, as speciﬁed in
Community
ROUTING-POLICY]
the SR Policy segment list associated with the related SLA along with the SRv6 Service SID
associated with the route using the Segment Routing Header (SRH)
whose SRv6 SIDs are part of the SRH segment list

Section 8 of [SEGMENT-
. The ingress PE encapsulates the payload packet in an outer IPv6 header with

 support the SRv6 data plane.

. The underlay nodes

[RFC8754]

MUST

1.1.  Requirements Language

", "
The key words "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
"
", "
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

2.  SRv6 Services TLVs

 to carry SRv6 SIDs and
This document extends the use of the BGP Preﬁx-SID attribute
their associated information with the BGP address families that are listed further in this section.

[RFC8669]

The SRv6 Service TLVs are deﬁned as two new TLVs of the BGP Preﬁx-SID attribute to achieve
signaling of SRv6 SIDs for L3 and L2 services.

SRv6 L3 Service TLV:

This TLV encodes Service SID information for SRv6-based L3 services. It corresponds to the
equivalent functionality provided by an MPLS label when received with a Layer 3 service
route, as deﬁned in
. Some SRv6 Endpoint
Behaviors that may be encoded are, but not limited to, End.DX4, End.DT4, End.DX6, End.DT6,
and End.DT46.

[RFC4364] [RFC4659] [RFC8950]

[RFC9136]

, and

,

,

SRv6 L2 Service TLV:

This TLV encodes Service SID information for SRv6-based L2 services. It corresponds to the
equivalent functionality provided by an MPLS label for Ethernet VPN (EVPN) Route Types for
Layer 2 services, as deﬁned in
. Some SRv6 Endpoint Behaviors that may be encoded
[RFC7432]
are, but not limited to, End.DX2, End.DX2V, End.DT2U, and End.DT2M.

When an egress PE is enabled for BGP Services over the SRv6 data plane, it signals one or more
SRv6 Service SIDs enclosed in an SRv6 Service TLV(s) within the BGP Preﬁx-SID attribute attached
to Multiprotocol BGP (MP-BGP) Network Layer Reachability Information (NLRI) deﬁned in
[RFC4760] [RFC4659] [RFC8950] [RFC7432] [RFC4364]
described in Sections 5 and 6.

, where applicable, as

[RFC9136]

, and

,

,

,

,

Dawra, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9252

SRv6-Based BGP Overlay Services

July 2022

The support for BGP Multicast VPN (MVPN) Services
this document.

[RFC6513]

 with SRv6 is outside the scope of

The following depicts the SRv6 Service TLVs encoded in the BGP Preﬁx-SID attribute:

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   TLV Type    |         TLV Length            |   RESERVED    |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   SRv6 Service Sub-TLVs                                      //
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 1: SRv6 Service TLVs

TLV Type (1 octet):

This ﬁeld is assigned a value from IANA's "BGP Preﬁx-SID TLV Types" subregistry. It is set to 5
for the SRv6 L3 Service TLV. It is set to 6 for the SRv6 L2 Service TLV.

TLV Length (2 octets):

This ﬁeld speciﬁes the total length, in octets, of the TLV Value.

RESERVED (1 octet):

This ﬁeld is reserved; it

MUST

 be set to 0 by the sender and ignored by the receiver.

SRv6 Service Sub-TLVs (variable):

This ﬁeld contains SRv6 service-related information and is encoded as an unordered list of
Sub-TLVs whose format is described below.

A BGP speaker receiving a route containing the BGP Preﬁx-SID attribute with one or more SRv6
Service TLVs observes the following rules when advertising the received route to other peers:

•

If the BGP next hop is unchanged during the advertisement, the SRv6 Service TLVs, including
any unrecognized Types of Sub-TLV and Sub-Sub-TLV,
addition, all Reserved ﬁelds in the TLV, Sub-TLV, or Sub-Sub-TLV
unchanged.

 be propagated further. In

 be propagated

SHOULD

MUST

•

If the BGP next hop is changed, the TLVs, Sub-TLVs, and Sub-Sub-TLVs
 be updated with
the locally allocated SRv6 SID information. Any received Sub-TLVs and Sub-Sub-TLVs that are
unrecognized

 be removed.

SHOULD

MUST

3.  SRv6 Service Sub-TLVs

The format of a single SRv6 Service Sub-TLV is depicted below:

Dawra, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9252

SRv6-Based BGP Overlay Services

July 2022

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| SRv6 Service  |    SRv6 Service               | SRv6 Service //
| Sub-TLV       |    Sub-TLV                    | Sub-TLV      //
| Type          |    Length                     | Value        //
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 2: SRv6 Service Sub-TLVs

SRv6 Service Sub-TLV Type (1 octet):

This ﬁeld identiﬁes the type of SRv6 service information. It is assigned a value from IANA's
"SRv6 Service Sub-TLV Types" subregistry.

SRv6 Service Sub-TLV Length (2 octets):

This ﬁeld speciﬁes the total length, in octets, of the Sub-TLV Value ﬁeld.

SRv6 Service Sub-TLV Value (variable):

This ﬁeld contains data speciﬁc to the Sub-TLV Type. In addition to ﬁxed-length data, it
contains other properties of the SRv6 service encoded as a set of SRv6 Service Data Sub-Sub-
TLVs whose format is described in Section 3.2 below.

3.1.  SRv6 SID Information Sub-TLV

SRv6 Service Sub-TLV Type 1 is assigned for the SRv6 SID Information Sub-TLV. This Sub-TLV
contains a single SRv6 SID along with its properties. Its encoding is depicted below:

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| SRv6 Service  |    SRv6 Service               |               |
| Sub-TLV       |    Sub-TLV                    |               |
| Type=1        |    Length                     |  RESERVED1    |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|  SRv6 SID Value (16 octets)                                  //
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| Svc SID Flags |   SRv6 Endpoint Behavior      |   RESERVED2   |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|  SRv6 Service Data Sub-Sub-TLVs                              //
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 3: SRv6 SID Information Sub-TLV

SRv6 Service Sub-TLV Type (1 octet):

This ﬁeld is set to 1 to represent the SRv6 SID Information Sub-TLV.

SRv6 Service Sub-TLV Length (2 octets):

This ﬁeld contains the total length, in octets, of the Value ﬁeld of the Sub-TLV.

Dawra, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9252

SRv6-Based BGP Overlay Services

July 2022

RESERVED1 (1 octet):

This ﬁeld

MUST

 be set to 0 by the sender and ignored by the receiver.

SRv6 SID Value (16 octets):

This ﬁeld encodes an SRv6 SID, as deﬁned in

[RFC8986]

.

SRv6 Service SID Flags (1 octet):

This ﬁeld encodes SRv6 Service SID Flags -- none are currently deﬁned. It
the sender and any unknown ﬂags

 be ignored by the receiver.

MUST

MUST

 be set to 0 by

SRv6 Endpoint Behavior (2 octets):

This ﬁeld encodes the SRv6 Endpoint Behavior codepoint value that is associated with the SRv6
SID. The codepoints used are from IANA's "SRv6 Endpoint Behaviors" subregistry under the
"Segment Routing" registry that was introduced by
Behavior (i.e., value 0xFFFF)
actual behavior of its locally instantiated SRv6 SID.

 be used when the advertising router wishes to abstract the

. The opaque SRv6 Endpoint

[RFC8986]

MAY

RESERVED2 (1 octet):

This ﬁeld

MUST

 be set to 0 by the sender and ignored by the receiver.

SRv6 Service Data Sub-Sub-TLV Value (variable):

This ﬁeld is used to advertise properties of the SRv6 SID. It is encoded as a set of SRv6 Service
Data Sub-Sub-TLVs.

The choice of SRv6 Endpoint Behavior of the SRv6 SID is entirely up to the originator of the
advertisement. While Sections 5 and 6 list the SRv6 Endpoint Behaviors that are normally
expected to be used by the speciﬁc route advertisements, the reception of other SRv6 Endpoint
Behaviors (e.g., new behaviors that may be introduced in the future) is not considered an error.
An unrecognized SRv6 Endpoint Behavior
MUST NOT
for behaviors that involve the use of arguments (refer to Section 3.2.1 for details on argument
validation). An implementation
behavior.

 log a rate-limited warning when it receives an unexpected

 be considered invalid by the receiver, except

MAY

When multiple SRv6 SID Information Sub-TLVs are present, the ingress PE
SID from the ﬁrst instance of the Sub-TLV. An implementation
override this selection.

MAY

SHOULD
 provide a local policy to

 use the SRv6

3.2.  SRv6 Service Data Sub-Sub-TLVs

The format of the SRv6 Service Data Sub-Sub-TLV is depicted below:

Dawra, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9252

SRv6-Based BGP Overlay Services

July 2022

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| Service Data |  Sub-Sub-TLV Length               |Sub-Sub TLV //
| Sub-Sub-TLV  |                                   |  Value     //
| Type         |                                   |            //
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 4: SRv6 Service Data Sub-Sub-TLVs

SRv6 Service Data Sub-Sub-TLV Type (1 octet):

This ﬁeld identiﬁes the type of Sub-Sub-TLV. It is assigned a value from IANA's "SRv6 Service
Data Sub-Sub-TLV Types" subregistry.

SRv6 Service Data Sub-Sub-TLV Length (2 octets):

This ﬁeld speciﬁes the total length, in octets, of the Sub-Sub-TLV Value ﬁeld.

SRv6 Service Data Sub-Sub-TLV Value (variable):

This ﬁeld contains data speciﬁc to the Sub-Sub-TLV Type.

3.2.1.  SRv6 SID Structure Sub-Sub-TLV

SRv6 Service Data Sub-Sub-TLV Type 1 is assigned for the SRv6 SID Structure Sub-Sub-TLV. The
SRv6 SID Structure Sub-Sub-TLV is used to advertise the lengths of the individual parts of the SRv6
. The terms Locator Block and Locator Node correspond to the B and
SID, as deﬁned in
N parts, respectively, of the SRv6 Locator that is deﬁned in
. It is carried as
Sub-Sub-TLV in the SRv6 SID Information Sub-TLV.

Section 3.1 of [RFC8986]

[RFC8986]

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| SRv6 Service  |    SRv6 Service               | Locator Block |
| Data Sub-Sub  |    Data Sub-Sub-TLV           | Length        |
| -TLV Type=1   |    Length                     |               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| Locator Node  | Function      | Argument      | Transposition |
| Length        | Length        | Length        | Length        |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| Transposition |
| Offset        |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 5: SRv6 SID Structure Sub-Sub-TLV

SRv6 Service Data Sub-Sub-TLV Type (1 octet):

This ﬁeld is set to 1 to represent the SRv6 SID Structure Sub-Sub-TLV.

SRv6 Service Data Sub-Sub-TLV Length (2 octets):
This ﬁeld contains a total length of 6 octets.

Dawra, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9252

SRv6-Based BGP Overlay Services

July 2022

Locator Block Length (1 octet):

This ﬁeld contains the length of the SRv6 SID Locator Block in bits.

Locator Node Length (1 octet):

This ﬁeld contains the length of the SRv6 SID Locator Node in bits.

Function Length (1 octet):

This ﬁeld contains the length of the SRv6 SID Function in bits.

Argument Length (1 octet):

This ﬁeld contains the length of the SRv6 SID Argument in bits.

Transposition Length (1 octet):

This ﬁeld is the size in bits for the part of the SID that has been transposed (or shifted) into an
MPLS Label ﬁeld.

Transposition Oﬀset (1 octet):

This ﬁeld is the oﬀset position in bits for the part of the SID that has been transposed (or
shifted) into an MPLS Label ﬁeld.

Section 4 describes mechanisms for the signaling of the SRv6 Service SID by transposing a
variable part of the SRv6 SID value and carrying this variable part in existing MPLS Label ﬁelds to
achieve more eﬃcient packing of those service preﬁx NLRIs in BGP update messages. The SRv6
SID Structure Sub-Sub-TLV contains appropriate length ﬁelds when the SRv6 Service SID is
signaled in split parts to enable the receiver to put together the SID accurately.

Transposition Oﬀset indicates the bit position, and Transposition Length indicates the number of
bits that are being taken out of the SRv6 SID value and encoded in the MPLS Label ﬁeld. The bits
that have been shifted out

 be set to 0 in the SID value.

MUST

A Transposition Length of 0 indicates nothing is transposed and that the entire SRv6 SID value is
encoded in the SID Information Sub-TLV. In this case, the Transposition Oﬀset

 be set to 0.

MUST

The size of the MPLS Label ﬁeld limits the bits transposed from the SRv6 SID value into it. For
example, the size of the MPLS Label ﬁeld is 20 bits in
bits in

[RFC8277]

[RFC4364]

[RFC7432]

, and the size is 24

 and

.

[RFC8986]

As deﬁned in
Function Length (FL), and Argument Length (AL) ﬁelds
greater than the sum of Transposition Oﬀset and Transposition Length.

MUST

, the sum of the Locator Block Length (LBL), Locator Node Length (LNL),

 be less than or equal to 128 and

As an example, consider that the sum of the Locator Block and the Locator Node parts is 64. For
an SRv6 SID where the entire Function part of size 16 bits is transposed, the transposition oﬀset is
set to 64 and the transposition length is set to 16. While for an SRv6 SID for which the FL is 24 bits
and only the lower order 20 bits are transposed (e.g., due to the limit of the MPLS Label ﬁeld size),
the transposition oﬀset is set to 68 and the transposition length is set to 20.

Dawra, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9252

SRv6-Based BGP Overlay Services

July 2022

BGP speakers that do not support this speciﬁcation may misinterpret, on the reception of an
SRv6-based BGP service route update, the part of the SRv6 SID encoded in an MPLS Label ﬁeld(s)
as MPLS label values for MPLS-based services. Implementations supporting this speciﬁcation
MUST
per-neighbor and per-service basis. The details of deployment designs and implementation
options are outside the scope of this document.

 provide a mechanism to control the advertisement of SRv6-based BGP service routes on a

MUST

Arguments may be generally applicable for SIDs of only speciﬁc SRv6 Endpoint Behaviors (e.g.,
 be set to 0 for SIDs where the Argument is not applicable. A
End.DT2M); therefore, the AL
receiver is unable to validate the applicability of arguments for SRv6 Endpoint Behaviors that are
unknown to it and hence
with unknown SRv6 Endpoint Behaviors. For SIDs corresponding to an SRv6 Endpoint Behavior
that is known, a receiver
MUST
Endpoint Behavior deﬁnition.

 ignore SRv6 SIDs with arguments (indicated by a non-zero AL)

 validate that the consistency of the AL with the speciﬁc SRv6

MUST

4.  Encoding SRv6 SID Information

The SRv6 Service SID(s) for a BGP service preﬁx is carried in the SRv6 Services TLVs of the BGP
Preﬁx-SID attribute.

For certain types of BGP Services, like L3VPN where a per-VRF SID allocation is used (i.e., End.DT4
or End.DT6 behaviors), the same SID is shared across multiple NLRIs, thus providing eﬃcient
packing. However, for certain other types of BGP Services, like EVPN Virtual Private Wire Service
(VPWS) where a per-PW SID allocation is required (i.e., End.DX2 behavior), each NLRI would have
its own unique SID, thereby resulting in ineﬃcient packing.

To achieve eﬃcient packing, this document allows either 1) the encoding of the SRv6 Service SID
as a whole in the SRv6 Services TLVs or 2) the encoding of only the common part of the SRv6 SID
(e.g., Locator) in the SRv6 Services TLVs and the encoding of the variable (e.g., Function or
Argument parts) in the existing label ﬁelds speciﬁc to that service encoding. This later form of
encoding is referred to as the Transposition Scheme, where the SRv6 SID Structure Sub-Sub-TLV
describes the sizes of the parts of the SRv6 SID and also indicates the oﬀset of the variable part
along with its length in the SRv6 SID value. The use of the Transposition Scheme is
for the speciﬁc service encodings that allow it, as described further in Sections 5 and 6.

RECOMMENDED

As an example, for the EVPN VPWS service preﬁx described further in Section 6.1.2, the Function
part of the SRv6 SID is encoded in the MPLS Label ﬁeld of the NLRI, and the SID value in the SRv6
Services TLV carries only the Locator part with the SRv6 SID Structure Sub-Sub-TLV. The SRv6 SID
Structure Sub-Sub-TLV deﬁnes the lengths of Locator Block, Locator Node, and Function parts
(Arguments are not applicable for the End.DX2 behavior). Transposition Oﬀset indicates the bit
position, and Transposition Length indicates the number of bits that are being taken out of the
SID and put into the label ﬁeld.

In yet another example, for the EVPN Ethernet Auto-Discovery (A-D) per Ethernet Segment (ES)
route described further in Section 6.1.1, only the Argument of the SID needs to be signaled. This
 be transposed in the Ethernet Segment Identiﬁer (ESI) Label
Argument part of the SRv6 SID
ﬁeld of the ESI Label extended community, and the SID value in the SRv6 Services TLV is set to 0

MAY

Dawra, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9252

SRv6-Based BGP Overlay Services

July 2022

along with the inclusion of the SRv6 SID Structure Sub-Sub-TLV. The SRv6 SID Structure Sub-Sub-
TLV deﬁnes the lengths of Locator Block, Locator Node, Function, and Argument parts. The oﬀset
and length of the Argument part SID value moved to the label ﬁeld is set in transposition oﬀset
and length of the SID Structure TLV. The receiving router is then able to put together the entire
SRv6 Service SID (e.g., for the End.DT2M behavior), placing the label value received in the ESI
Label ﬁeld of the Ethernet A-D per ES route into the correct transposition oﬀset and length in the
SRv6 SID with the End.DT2M behavior received for an EVPN Route Type 3 value.

5.  BGP-Based L3 Service over SRv6

BGP egress nodes (egress PEs) advertise a set of reachable preﬁxes. Standard BGP update
propagation schemes
propagate these preﬁxes. BGP ingress nodes (ingress PEs) receive these advertisements and may
add the preﬁx to the RIB in an appropriate VRF.

, which may make use of route reﬂectors

, are used to

[RFC4271]

[RFC4456]

Egress PEs that support SRv6-based L3 services advertise overlay service preﬁxes along with a
Service SID enclosed in an SRv6 L3 Service TLV within the BGP Preﬁx-SID attribute. This TLV
serves two purposes -- ﬁrst, it indicates that the egress PE supports SRv6 overlay, and the BGP
ingress PE receiving this route
[RFC8754]
when required; second, it indicates the value of the Service SID to be used in the encapsulation.

 perform IPv6 encapsulation and insert an SRH

MUST

Thus, the Service SID signaled only has local signiﬁcance at the egress PE, where it may be
allocated or conﬁgured on a per-Customer-Edge (CE) or per-VRF basis. In practice, the SID may
encode a cross-connect to a speciﬁc address family table (End.DT) or next hop / interface
(End.DX), as deﬁned in

[RFC8986]

.

The SRv6 Service SID
Autonomous System (AS) of the egress PE and serves the dual purpose of providing reachability
between ingress PE and egress PE while also encoding the SRv6 Endpoint Behavior.

Section 3.3 of [RFC8986]

 be routable (refer to

) within the

SHOULD

[IGP-FLEX-ALGO]

) to the egress PE, the ingress PE encapsulates the IPv4 or IPv6

), where the destination address is the SRv6 Service SID associated with the related BGP

When steering for SRv6 services is based on shortest path forwarding (e.g., best eﬀort or IGP
Flexible Algorithm
customer packet in an outer IPv6 header (using H.Encaps or H.Encaps.Red ﬂavors speciﬁed in
[RFC8986]
route update. Therefore, the ingress PE
SID before considering the received preﬁx for the BGP best path computation. The resolvability is
evaluated as per
. If the SRv6 SID is reachable via more than one forwarding table, local
policy is used to determine which table to use. The result of an SRv6 Service SID resolvability (e.g.,
when provided via IGP Flexible Algorithm) can be ignored if the ingress PE has a local policy that
allows an alternate steering mechanism to reach the egress PE. The details of such steering
mechanisms are outside the scope of this document.

 perform a resolvability check for the SRv6 Service

[RFC4271]

MUST

For service over SRv6 core, the egress PE sets the BGP next hop to one of its IPv6 addresses. Such
an address
BGP next hop is used for tracking the reachability of the egress PE based on existing BGP
procedures.

 be covered by the SRv6 Locator from which the SRv6 Service SID is allocated. The

MAY

Dawra, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9252

SRv6-Based BGP Overlay Services

July 2022

When the BGP route received at an ingress PE is colored with a Color Extended Community and a
Section 8
valid SRv6 Policy is available, the steering for service ﬂows is performed as described in
of [SEGMENT-ROUTING-POLICY]
Structure) that the Service SID belongs to the same SRv6 Locator as the last SRv6 SID (of the egress
PE) in the SR Policy segment list, it
For example, the eﬀective segment list of the SRv6 Policy associated with SID list <S1, S2, S3> would
be <S1, S2, S3-Service-SID>.

. When the ingress PE determines (with the help of the SRv6 SID

 exclude that last SRv6 SID when steering the service ﬂow.

MAY

5.1.  IPv4 VPN over SRv6 Core

The MP_REACH_NLRI over SRv6 core is encoded according to IPv4 VPN unicast over IPv6 core
deﬁned in

[RFC8950]

.

The label ﬁeld of IPv4-VPN NLRI is encoded as speciﬁed in
set to the whole or a portion of the Function part of the SRv6 SID when the Transposition Scheme
of encoding (Section 4) is used; otherwise, it is set to Implicit NULL. When using the Transposition
Scheme, the Transposition Length
FL.

 be less than or equal to 20 and less than or equal to the

 with the 20-bit Label Value

[RFC8277]

MUST

The SRv6 Service SID is encoded as part of the SRv6 L3 Service TLV. The SRv6 Endpoint Behavior
SHOULD

 be one of these: End.DX4, End.DT4, or End.DT46.

5.2.  IPv6 VPN over SRv6 Core

The MP_REACH_NLRI over SRv6 core is encoded according to IPv6 VPN over IPv6 core, as deﬁned
in

[RFC4659]

.

The label ﬁeld of the IPv6-VPN NLRI is encoded as speciﬁed in
Value set to the whole or a portion of the Function part of the SRv6 SID when the Transposition
Scheme of encoding (Section 4) is used; otherwise, it is set to Implicit NULL. When using the
Transposition Scheme, the Transposition Length
equal to the FL.

 be less than or equal to 20 and less than or

 with the 20-bit Label

[RFC8277]

MUST

The SRv6 Service SID is encoded as part of the SRv6 L3 Service TLV. The SRv6 Endpoint Behavior
SHOULD

 be one of these: End.DX6, End.DT6, or End.DT46.

5.3.  Global IPv4 over SRv6 Core

The MP_REACH_NLRI over SRv6 core is encoded according to IPv4 over IPv6 core, as deﬁned in
[RFC8950]

.

SRv6 Service SID is encoded as part of the SRv6 L3 Service TLV. The SRv6 Endpoint Behavior
SHOULD

 be one of these: End.DX4, End.DT4, or End.DT46.

5.4.  Global IPv6 over SRv6 Core

The MP_REACH_NLRI over SRv6 core is encoded according to

[RFC2545]

.

Dawra, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9252

SRv6-Based BGP Overlay Services

July 2022

The SRv6 Service SID is encoded as part of the SRv6 L3 Service TLV. The SRv6 Endpoint Behavior
SHOULD

 be one of these: End.DX6, End.DT6, or End.DT46.

6.  BGP-Based Ethernet VPN (EVPN) over SRv6

[RFC8365]

[RFC7432]
 provides an extendable method of building an EVPN overlay. It primarily focuses on
MPLS-based EVPNs, and
 deﬁnes Route
 extends to IP-based EVPN overlays.
Types 1, 2, and 3, which carry preﬁxes and MPLS Label ﬁelds; the Label ﬁelds have a speciﬁc use
for MPLS encapsulation of EVPN traﬃc. Route Type 5 carrying MPLS label information (and thus
encapsulation information) for an EVPN is deﬁned in
deﬁned in

. Route Types 6, 7, and 8 are

[RFC9136]

[RFC7432]

[RFC9251]

.

•

Ethernet Auto-Discovery (A-D) route (Route Type 1)

•

MAC/IP Advertisement route (Route Type 2)

•

Inclusive Multicast Ethernet Tag route (Route Type 3)

•

Ethernet Segment route (Route Type 4)

•

IP Preﬁx route (Route Type 5)

•

Selective Multicast Ethernet Tag route (Route Type 6)

•

Multicast Membership Report Synch route (Route Type 7)

•

Multicast Leave Synch route (Route Type 8)

The speciﬁcations for other EVPN Route Types are outside the scope of this document.

To support SRv6-based EVPN overlays, one or more SRv6 Service SIDs are advertised with Route
Types 1, 2, 3, and 5. The SRv6 Service SID(s) per Route Type is advertised in SRv6 L3/L2 Service TLVs
within the BGP Preﬁx-SID attribute. Signaling of the SRv6 Service SID(s) serves two purposes --
ﬁrst, it indicates that the BGP egress device supports SRv6 overlay, and the BGP ingress device
receiving this route
required; second, it indicates the value of the Service SID(s) to be used in the encapsulation.

 perform IPv6 encapsulation and insert an SRH

[RFC8754]

 when

MUST

The SRv6 Service SID
egress PE and serves the dual purpose of providing reachability between the ingress PE and egress
PE while also encoding the SRv6 Endpoint Behavior.

Section 3.3 of [RFC8986]

 be routable (refer to

) within the AS of the

SHOULD

[RFC8986]

[IGP-FLEX-ALGO]

) where the destination address is the SRv6 Service SID associated with the

When steering for SRv6 services is based on shortest path forwarding (e.g., best eﬀort or IGP
Flexible Algorithm
) to the egress PE, the ingress PE encapsulates the customer
Layer 2 Ethernet packet in an outer IPv6 header (using H.Encaps.L2 or H.Encaps.L2.Red ﬂavors
speciﬁed in
related BGP route update. Therefore, the ingress PE
 perform a resolvability check for the
SRv6 Service SID before considering the received preﬁx for the BGP best path computation. The
resolvability is evaluated as per
forwarding table, local policy is used to determine which table to use. The result of an SRv6
Service SID resolvability (e.g., when provided via IGP Flexible Algorithm) can be ignored if the
ingress PE has a local policy that allows an alternate steering mechanism to reach the egress PE.
The details of such steering mechanisms are outside the scope of this document.

. If the SRv6 SID is reachable via more than one

[RFC4271]

MUST

Dawra, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9252

SRv6-Based BGP Overlay Services

July 2022

For service over SRv6 core, the egress PE sets the BGP next hop to one of its IPv6 addresses. Such
an address
BGP next hop is used for tracking the reachability of the egress PE based on existing BGP
procedures.

 be covered by the SRv6 Locator from which the SRv6 Service SID is allocated. The

MAY

When the BGP route received at an ingress PE is colored with a Color Extended Community and a
Section 8
valid SRv6 Policy is available, the steering for service ﬂows is performed as described in
of [SEGMENT-ROUTING-POLICY]
Structure) that the Service SID belongs to the same SRv6 Locator as the last SRv6 SID (of the egress
PE) in the SR Policy segment list, it
For example, the eﬀective segment list of the SRv6 Policy associated with SID list <S1, S2, S3> would
be <S1, S2, S3-Service-SID>.

. When the ingress PE determines (with the help of the SRv6 SID

 exclude that last SRv6 SID when steering the service ﬂow.

MAY

6.1.  Ethernet Auto-Discovery Route over SRv6 Core

Ethernet A-D routes are Route Type 1, as deﬁned in
horizon ﬁltering, fast convergence, and aliasing. EVPN Route Type 1 is also used in EVPN-VPWS as
well as in EVPN-ﬂexible cross-connect, mainly to advertise point-to-point service IDs.

, and may be used to achieve split-

[RFC7432]

As a reminder, EVPN Route Type 1 is encoded as follows:

                +-----------------------------------------+
                |  RD (8 octets)                          |
                +-----------------------------------------+
                |  Ethernet Segment Identifier (10 octets)|
                +-----------------------------------------+
                |  Ethernet Tag ID (4 octets)             |
                +-----------------------------------------+
                |  MPLS label (3 octets)                  |
                +-----------------------------------------+

Figure 6: EVPN Route Type 1

6.1.1.  Ethernet A-D per ES Route

Ethernet A-D per ES route NLRI encoding over SRv6 core is as per

[RFC7432]

.

The 24-bit ESI Label ﬁeld of the ESI Label extended community carries the whole or a portion of
the Argument part of the SRv6 SID when the ESI ﬁltering approach is used along with the
Transposition Scheme of encoding (Section 4); otherwise, it is set to Implicit NULL in the higher-
order 20 bits (i.e., as 0x000030). In either case, the value is set in the 24 bits. When using the
Transposition Scheme, the Transposition Length
equal to the AL.

 be less than or equal to 24 and less than or

MUST

A Service SID enclosed in an SRv6 L2 Service TLV within the BGP Preﬁx-SID attribute is advertised
along with the A-D route. The SRv6 Endpoint Behavior
ﬁltering approach is used, the Service SID is used to signal the Arg.FE2 SID Argument for
applicable End.DT2M behavior
Service SID

. When the local-bias approach

 be End.DT2M. When the ESI

 be of value 0.

 is used, the

[RFC8986]

[RFC8365]

SHOULD

MAY

Dawra, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9252

SRv6-Based BGP Overlay Services

July 2022

6.1.2.  Ethernet A-D per EVI Route

Ethernet A-D per EVPN Instance (EVI) route NLRI encoding over SRv6 core is similar to what is
described in

 with the following change:

[RFC8214]

[RFC7432]

 and

MPLS Label:

The 24-bit ﬁeld carries the whole or a portion of the Function part of the SRv6 SID when the
Transposition Scheme of encoding (Section 4) is used; otherwise, it is set to Implicit NULL in
the higher-order 20 bits (i.e., as 0x000030). In either case, the value is set in the 24 bits. When
using the Transposition Scheme, the Transposition Length
less than or equal to the FL.

 be less than or equal to 24 and

MUST

A Service SID enclosed in an SRv6 L2 Service TLV within the BGP Preﬁx-SID attribute is advertised
along with the A-D route. The SRv6 Endpoint Behavior
End.DX2V, or End.DT2U.

 be one of these: End.DX2,

SHOULD

6.2.  MAC/IP Advertisement Route over SRv6 Core

EVPN Route Type 2 is used to advertise unicast traﬃc Media Access Control (MAC) + IP address
reachability through MP-BGP to all other PEs in a given EVPN instance.

As a reminder, EVPN Route Type 2 is encoded as follows:

                +-----------------------------------------+
                |  RD (8 octets)                          |
                +-----------------------------------------+
                |  Ethernet Segment Identifier (10 octets)|
                +-----------------------------------------+
                |  Ethernet Tag ID (4 octets)             |
                +-----------------------------------------+
                |  MAC Address Length (1 octet)           |
                +-----------------------------------------+
                |  MAC Address (6 octets)                 |
                +-----------------------------------------+
                |  IP Address Length (1 octet)            |
                +-----------------------------------------+
                |  IP Address (0, 4, or 16 octets)        |
                +-----------------------------------------+
                |  MPLS Label1 (3 octets)                 |
                +-----------------------------------------+
                |  MPLS Label2 (0 or 3 octets)            |
                +-----------------------------------------+

Figure 7: EVPN Route Type 2

NLRI encoding over SRv6 core is similar to what is described in
changes:

[RFC7432]

 with the following

Dawra, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9252

SRv6-Based BGP Overlay Services

July 2022

MPLS Label1:

This is associated with the SRv6 L2 Service TLV. This 24-bit ﬁeld carries the whole or a portion
of the Function part of the SRv6 SID when the Transposition Scheme of encoding (Section 4) is
used; otherwise, it is set to Implicit NULL in the higher-order 20 bits (i.e., as 0x000030). In either
case, the value is set in the 24 bits. When using the Transposition Scheme, the Transposition
Length

 be less than or equal to 24 and less than or equal to the FL.

MUST

MPLS Label2:

This is associated with the SRv6 L3 Service TLV. This 24-bit ﬁeld carries the whole or a portion
of the Function part of the SRv6 SID when the Transposition Scheme of encoding (Section 4) is
used; otherwise, it is set to Implicit NULL in the higher-order 20 bits (i.e., as 0x000030). In either
case, the value is set in the 24 bits. When using the Transposition Scheme, the Transposition
Length

 be less than or equal to 24 and less than or equal to the FL.

MUST

Service SIDs enclosed in the SRv6 L2 Service TLV and optionally in the SRv6 L3 Service TLV within
the BGP Preﬁx-SID attribute are advertised along with the MAC/IP Advertisement route.

Described below are diﬀerent types of Route Type 2 advertisements.

6.2.1.  MAC/IP Advertisement Route with MAC Only

MPLS Label1:

This is associated with the SRv6 L2 Service TLV. This 24-bit ﬁeld carries the whole or a portion
of the Function part of the SRv6 SID when the Transposition Scheme of encoding (Section 4) is
used; otherwise, it is set to Implicit NULL in the higher-order 20 bits (i.e., as 0x000030). In either
case, the value is set in the 24 bits. When using the Transposition Scheme, the Transposition
Length

 be less than or equal to 24 and less than or equal to the FL.

MUST

A Service SID enclosed in an SRv6 L2 Service TLV within the BGP Preﬁx-SID attribute is advertised
 be one of these: End.DX2 or End.DT2U.
along with the route. The SRv6 Endpoint Behavior

SHOULD

6.2.2.  MAC/IP Advertisement Route with MAC+IP

MPLS Label1:

This is associated with the SRv6 L2 Service TLV. This 24-bit ﬁeld carries the whole or a portion
of the Function part of the SRv6 SID when the Transposition Scheme of encoding (Section 4) is
used; otherwise, it is set to Implicit NULL in the higher-order 20 bits (i.e., as 0x000030). In either
case, the value is set in the 24 bits. When using the Transposition Scheme, the Transposition
Length

 be less than or equal to 24 and less than or equal to the FL.

MUST

MPLS Label2:

This is associated with the SRv6 L3 Service TLV. This 24-bit ﬁeld carries the whole or a portion
of the Function part of the SRv6 SID when the Transposition Scheme of encoding (Section 4) is
used; otherwise, it is set to Implicit NULL in the higher-order 20 bits (i.e., as 0x000030). In either
case, the value is set in the 24 bits. When using the Transposition Scheme, the Transposition
Length

 be less than or equal to 24 and less than or equal to the FL.

MUST

Dawra, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9252

SRv6-Based BGP Overlay Services

July 2022

An L2 Service SID enclosed in an SRv6 L2 Service TLV within the BGP Preﬁx-SID attribute is
advertised along with the route. In addition, an L3 Service SID enclosed in an SRv6 L3 Service TLV
within the BGP Preﬁx-SID attribute
Endpoint Behavior
the L3 Service SID, End.DT46, End.DT4, End.DT6, End.DX4, or End.DX6.

 be one of these: for the L2 Service SID, End.DX2 or End.DT2U and for

 also be advertised along with the route. The SRv6

SHOULD

MAY

6.3.  Inclusive Multicast Ethernet Tag Route over SRv6 Core

EVPN Route Type 3 is used to advertise multicast traﬃc reachability information through MP-BGP
to all other PEs in a given EVPN instance.

As a reminder, EVPN Route Type 3 is encoded as follows:

               +---------------------------------------+
               |  RD (8 octets)                        |
               +---------------------------------------+
               |  Ethernet Tag ID (4 octets)           |
               +---------------------------------------+
               |  IP Address Length (1 octet)          |
               +---------------------------------------+
               |  Originating Router's IP Address      |
               |          (4 or 16 octets)             |
               +---------------------------------------+

Figure 8: EVPN Route Type 3

NLRI encoding over SRv6 core is similar to what is described in

[RFC7432]

.

The P-Multicast Service Interface (PMSI) Tunnel Attribute
Provider tunnel (P-tunnel) used for sending Broadcast, Unknown Unicast, or Multicast (BUM)
traﬃc. The format of the PMSI Tunnel Attribute is encoded as follows over SRv6 core:

 is used to identify the

[RFC6514]

               +---------------------------------------+
               |  Flag (1 octet)                       |
               +---------------------------------------+
               |  Tunnel Type (1 octet)                |
               +---------------------------------------+
               |  MPLS label (3 octets)                 |
               +---------------------------------------+
               |  Tunnel Identifier (variable)         |
               +---------------------------------------+

Figure 9: PMSI Tunnel Attribute

Flag:

This ﬁeld has a value of 0, as deﬁned per

[RFC7432]

.

Tunnel Type:

This ﬁeld is deﬁned per

[RFC6514]

.

Dawra, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9252

SRv6-Based BGP Overlay Services

July 2022

MPLS label:

This 24-bit ﬁeld carries the whole or a portion of the Function part of the SRv6 SID when
ingress replication is used and the Transposition Scheme of encoding (Section 4) is used;
otherwise, it is set as deﬁned in
Transposition Length

 be less than or equal to 24 and less than or equal to the FL.

. When using the Transposition Scheme, the

[RFC6514]

MUST

Tunnel Identiﬁer:

This ﬁeld is the IP address of egress PE.

A Service SID enclosed in an SRv6 L2 Service TLV within the BGP Preﬁx-SID attribute is advertised
along with the route. The SRv6 Endpoint Behavior

 be End.DT2M.

SHOULD

•

When ESI-based ﬁltering is used for multihoming or Ethernet Tree (E-Tree) procedures, the ESI
) of the Service SID carried
Filtering Argument (the Arg.FE2 notation introduced in
along with EVPN Route Type 1
 be merged with the applicable End.DT2M SID of Route
Type 3 advertised by the remote PE by doing a bitwise logical-OR operation to create a single
SID on the ingress PE. Details of split-horizon, ESI-based ﬁltering mechanisms for
multihoming are described in
BUM traﬃc in EVPN E-Tree services are provided in

. Details of ﬁltering mechanisms for Leaf-originated

[RFC8986]

[RFC7432]

[RFC8317]

SHOULD

.

•

When "local-bias" is used as the multihoming split-horizon method, the ESI Filtering
Argument
Details of the local-bias procedures are described in

 be merged with the corresponding End.DT2M SID on the ingress PE.
[RFC8365]

SHOULD NOT

.

Usage of multicast trees as P-tunnels is outside the scope of this document.

6.4.  Ethernet Segment Route over SRv6 Core

As a reminder, an Ethernet Segment route (i.e., EVPN Route Type 4) is encoded as follows:

               +---------------------------------------+
               |  RD (8 octets)                        |
               +---------------------------------------+
               |  Ethernet Tag ID (4 octets)           |
               +---------------------------------------+
               |  IP Address Length (1 octet)          |
               +---------------------------------------+
               |  Originating Router's IP Address      |
               |          (4 or 16 octets)             |
               +---------------------------------------+

Figure 10: EVPN Route Type 4

NLRI encoding over SRv6 core is similar to what is described in

[RFC7432]

.

SRv6 Service TLVs within the BGP Preﬁx-SID attribute are not advertised along with this route. The
processing of the route has not changed -- it remains as described in

[RFC7432]

.

Dawra, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9252

SRv6-Based BGP Overlay Services

July 2022

6.5.  IP Preﬁx Route over SRv6 Core

EVPN Route Type 5 is used to advertise IP address reachability through MP-BGP to all other PEs in
a given EVPN instance. The IP address may include a host IP preﬁx or any speciﬁc subnet.

As a reminder, EVPN Route Type 5 is encoded as follows:

               +-----------------------------------------+
               |  RD (8 octets)                          |
               +-----------------------------------------+
               |  Ethernet Segment Identifier (10 octets)|
               +-----------------------------------------+
               |  Ethernet Tag ID (4 octets)             |
               +-----------------------------------------+
               |  IP Prefix Length (1 octet)             |
               +-----------------------------------------+
               |  IP Prefix (4 or 16 octets)             |
               +-----------------------------------------+
               |  GW IP Address (4 or 16 octets)         |
               +-----------------------------------------+
               |  MPLS Label (3 octets)                  |
               +-----------------------------------------+

Figure 11: EVPN Route Type 5

NLRI encoding over SRv6 core is similar to what is described in
change:

[RFC9136]

 with the following

MPLS Label:

This 24-bit ﬁeld carries the whole or a portion of the Function part of the SRv6 SID when the
Transposition Scheme of encoding (Section 4) is used; otherwise, it is set to Implicit NULL in
the higher-order 20 bits (i.e., as 0x000030). In either case, the value is set in the 24 bits. When
using the Transposition Scheme, the Transposition Length
less than or equal to the FL.

 be less than or equal to 24 and

MUST

The SRv6 Service SID is encoded as part of the SRv6 L3 Service TLV. The SRv6 Endpoint Behavior
SHOULD

 be one of these: End.DT4, End.DT6, End.DT46, End.DX4, or End.DX6.

6.6.  EVPN Multicast Routes (Route Types 6, 7, and 8) over SRv6 Core

These routes do not require the advertisement of SRv6 Service TLVs along with them. Similar to
EVPN Route Type 4, the BGP next hop is equal to the IPv6 address of egress PE.

7.  Error Handling

In case of any errors encountered while processing SRv6 Service TLVs, the details of the error
SHOULD

 be logged for further analysis.

Dawra, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9252

SRv6-Based BGP Overlay Services

July 2022

If multiple instances of the SRv6 L3 Service TLV are encountered, all but the ﬁrst instance
be ignored.

MUST

If multiple instances of the SRv6 L2 Service TLV are encountered, all but the ﬁrst instance
be ignored.

MUST

An SRv6 Service TLV is considered malformed in the following cases:

•

The TLV Length is less than 1.

•

The TLV Length is inconsistent with the length of the BGP Preﬁx-SID attribute.

•

At least one of the constituent Sub-TLVs is malformed.

An SRv6 Service Sub-TLV is considered malformed in the following case:

•

The Sub-TLV Length is inconsistent with the length of the enclosing SRv6 Service TLV.

An SRv6 SID Information Sub-TLV is considered malformed in the following cases:

•

The Sub-TLV Length is less than 21.

•

The Sub-TLV Length is inconsistent with the length of the enclosing SRv6 Service TLV.

•

At least one of the constituent Sub-Sub-TLVs is malformed.

An SRv6 Service Data Sub-Sub-TLV is considered malformed in the following case:

•

The Sub-Sub-TLV Length is inconsistent with the length of the enclosing SRv6 service Sub-TLV.

Any TLV, Sub-TLV, or Sub-Sub-TLV is not considered malformed because its Type is unrecognized.

Any TLV, Sub-TLV, or Sub-Sub-TLV is not considered malformed because of failing any semantic
validation of its Value ﬁeld.

The SRv6 overlay service requires the Service SID for forwarding. The treat-as-withdraw action
 be performed when at least one malformed SRv6 Service TLV is present in the
[RFC7606] MUST
BGP Preﬁx-SID attribute.

The SRv6 SID value in the SRv6 SID Information Sub-TLV is invalid when the SID Structure Sub-
Sub-TLV transposition length is greater than the number of bits of the label ﬁeld or if any of the
conditions for the ﬁelds of the Sub-Sub-TLV, as speciﬁed in Section 3.2.1, is not met. The
 be 0 when the Sub-Sub-TLV is advertised along with routes
transposition oﬀset and length
 where
where the Transposition Scheme is not applicable (e.g., for global IPv6 service
there is no label ﬁeld). The path having any such Preﬁx-SID attribute without any valid SRv6 SID
information
corresponding preﬁx.

 be considered ineligible during the selection of the best path for the

[RFC2545]

MUST

MUST

Dawra, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9252

SRv6-Based BGP Overlay Services

July 2022

8.  IANA Considerations

8.1.  BGP Preﬁx-SID TLV Types Registry

This document introduces two new TLV Types of the BGP Preﬁx-SID attribute. IANA has assigned
Type values in the "BGP Preﬁx-SID TLV Types" subregistry as follows:

Value

Type

Reference

4

5

6

Deprecated

RFC 9252

SRv6 L3 Service TLV

RFC 9252

SRv6 L2 Service TLV

RFC 9252

Table 1: BGP Preﬁx-SID TLV Types Subregistry

Value 4 previously corresponded to the SRv6-VPN SID TLV, which was speciﬁed in earlier draft
versions of this document and used by early implementations of this speciﬁcation. It was
deprecated and replaced by the SRv6 L3 Service and SRv6 L2 Service TLVs.

8.2.  SRv6 Service Sub-TLV Types Registry

IANA has created and now maintains a new subregistry called "SRv6 Service Sub-TLV Types"
under the "Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) Parameters" registry. The registration procedures, per
[RFC8126]

, for this subregistry are according to Table 2.

Range

Registration Procedures

1-127

IETF Review

128-254

First Come First Served

255

IETF Review

Table 2: SRv6 Service Sub-TLV Types
Subregistry Registration Procedures

IANA has populated this subregistry as follows. Note that the SRv6 SID Information Sub-TLV is
deﬁned in this document:

Value

Type

Reserved

0

1

SRv6 SID Information Sub-TLV

RFC 9252

Reference

RFC 9252

Dawra, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9252

SRv6-Based BGP Overlay Services

July 2022

Value

Type

255

Reserved

Reference

RFC 9252

Table 3: SRv6 Service Sub-TLV Types Subregistry Initial
Contents

8.3.  SRv6 Service Data Sub-Sub-TLV Types Registry

IANA has created and now maintains a new subregistry called "SRv6 Service Data Sub-Sub-TLV
Types" under the "Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) Parameters" registry. The registration
procedures for this subregistry are according to Table 4.

Range

Registration Procedure

1-127

IETF Review

128-254

First Come First Served

255

IETF Review

Table 4: SRv6 Service Data Sub-Sub-TLV
Types Subregistry Registration Procedures

The following Sub-Sub-TLV Type is deﬁned in this document:

Value

Type

Reserved

0

1

SRv6 SID Structure Sub-Sub-TLV

RFC 9252

Reference

RFC 9252

255

Reserved

RFC 9252

Table 5: SRv6 Service Data Sub-Sub-TLV Types Subregistry
Initial Contents

8.4.  BGP SRv6 Service SID Flags Registry

IANA has created and now maintains a new subregistry called "BGP SRv6 Service SID Flags"
under the "Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) Parameters" registry. The registration procedure for
this subregistry is IETF Review, and all 8-bit positions of the ﬂags are currently unassigned.

8.5.  SAFI Values Registry

IANA has added this document as a reference for value 128 ("MPLS-labeled VPN address") in the
"SAFI Values" subregistry under the "Subsequent Address Family Identiﬁers (SAFI) Parameters"
registry.

Dawra, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9252

SRv6-Based BGP Overlay Services

July 2022

9.  Security Considerations

This document speciﬁes extensions to the BGP protocol for the signaling of services for SRv6.
These speciﬁcations leverage existing BGP protocol mechanisms for the signaling of various
types of services. It also builds upon existing elements of the SR architecture (more speciﬁcally,
SRv6). As such, this section largely provides pointers (as a reminder) to the security
considerations of those existing speciﬁcations while also covering certain, newer security aspects
for the speciﬁcations newly introduced by this document.

9.1.  Considerations Related to BGP Sessions

Techniques related to authentication of BGP sessions for securing messages between BGP peers,
as discussed in the BGP speciﬁcation
apply. The discussion of the use of the TCP Authentication Option to protect BGP sessions is found
 includes an analysis of BGP keying and authentication issues. This
in
document does not introduce any additional BGP session security considerations.

 and in the security analysis for BGP

[RFC6952]

[RFC4271]

[RFC5925]

[RFC4272]

, while

,

9.2.  Considerations Related to BGP Services

This document does not introduce new services or BGP NLRI types but extends the signaling of
existing ones for SRv6. Therefore, the security considerations for the respective BGP services, such
as
BGP IPv4 over IPv6 NH [RFC8950] BGP IPv6 L3VPN [RFC4659] BGP IPv6 [RFC2545] BGP EVPN
[RFC7432]
discusses mechanisms to prevent the leaking of the BGP Preﬁx-SID attribute, which carries SR
information, outside the SR domain.

,
, apply as discussed in their respective documents.
[RFC8669]

IP EVPN [RFC9136]

, and

,

,

 was extended for Virtual eXtensible Local Area Network (VXLAN) encapsulation and

As a reminder, several of the BGP services (i.e., the AFI/SAFI used for their signaling) were initially
introduced for one encapsulation mechanism and later extended for others, e.g., EVPN MPLS
[RFC7432]
Network Virtualization Using Generic Routing Encapsulation (NVGRE)
enables the use of various IP encapsulation mechanisms along with diﬀerent BGP SAFIs for their
respective services. The existing ﬁltering mechanisms for preventing the leak of the
encapsulation information (carried in BGP attributes) and preventing the advertisement of
preﬁxes from the provider's internal address space (especially the SRv6 Block, as discussed in
[RFC8986]

) to external peers (or into the Internet) also apply in the case of SRv6.

.
[RFC8365] [RFC9012]

Speciﬁc to SRv6, a misconﬁguration or error in the BGP ﬁltering mechanisms mentioned above
may result in exposing information, such as SRv6 Service SIDs to external peers or other
unauthorized entities. However, an attempt to exploit this information or to raise an attack by
injecting packets into the network (e.g., customer networks in case of VPN services) is mitigated
by the existing SRv6 data plane security mechanisms, as described in the next section.

Dawra, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9252

SRv6-Based BGP Overlay Services

July 2022

9.3.  Considerations Related to SR over IPv6 Data Plane

This section provides a brief reminder and an overview of the security considerations related to
SRv6 with pointers to existing speciﬁcations. This document introduces no new security
considerations of its own from the SRv6 data plane perspective.

SRv6 operates within a trusted SR domain. The data packets corresponding to service ﬂows
between PE routers are encapsulated (using SRv6 SIDs advertised via BGP) and carried within this
trusted SR domain (e.g., within a single AS or between multiple ASes within a single provider
network).

The security considerations of the SR architecture are covered by
security considerations, speciﬁcally of SRv6 and SRH, are covered by
SR Attacks (Section 7.1), Service Theft (Section 7.2), and Topology Disclosure (Section 7.3). As such,
 to
an operator deploying SRv6
implement the infrastructure Access Control Lists (ACLs) and the recommendations described in
BCP 38 [RFC2827]

 follow the considerations described in

Section 7 of [RFC8754]

BCP 84 [RFC3704]

 as they relate to

. More detailed

[RFC8402]

[RFC8754]

 and

MUST

.

The SRv6 deployment and SID allocation guidelines, as described in
deployment of the ACL ﬁlters (e.g., a single ACL corresponding to the SRv6 Block applied to the
external interfaces on border nodes is suﬃcient to block packets destined to any SRv6 SID in the
domain from external/unauthorized networks). While there is an assumed trust model within an
SR domain, such that any node sending a packet to an SRv6 SID is assumed to be allowed to do so,
there is also the option of using an SRH Hashed Message Authentication Code (HMAC) TLV
[RFC8754]

, as described in

, for validation.

, simplify the

[RFC8986]

[RFC8986]

The SRv6 Endpoint Behaviors implementing the services signaled in this document are deﬁned in
[RFC8986]
independent of the protocol used for service deployment, i.e., independent of BGP signaling of
SRv6 services.

; hence, the security considerations of that document apply. These considerations are

These considerations help protect transit traﬃc as well as services, such as VPNs, to avoid service
theft or injection of traﬃc into customer VPNs.

10.  References

10.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC2545]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
,
.
rfc2119>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

 and

Marques, P.
Domain Routing" RFC 2545 DOI 10.17487/RFC2545
.
editor.org/info/rfc2545>

F. Dupont "Use of BGP-4 Multiprotocol Extensions for IPv6 Inter-
<https://www.rfc-

, March 1999,

,

,

,

Dawra, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9252

SRv6-Based BGP Overlay Services

July 2022

[RFC4271]

[RFC4364]

[RFC4456]

[RFC4659]

[RFC4760]

[RFC6514]

[RFC7432]

[RFC7606]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8200]

[RFC8214]

[RFC8277]

Rekhter, Y., Ed. Li, T., Ed.
,
RFC 4271 DOI 10.17487/RFC4271
,
rfc4271>
.

, and

S. Hares, Ed. "A Border Gateway Protocol 4 (BGP-4)"
,

,

, January 2006,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

 and

Rosen, E.
4364 DOI 10.17487/RFC4364
,
rfc4364>
.

,

Y. Rekhter "BGP/MPLS IP Virtual Private Networks (VPNs)" RFC

,

, February 2006,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, and

Bates, T. Chen, E.
,
Mesh Internal BGP (IBGP)" RFC 4456 DOI 10.17487/RFC4456
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4456>
.

R. Chandra "BGP Route Reﬂection: An Alternative to Full
<https://

, April 2006,

,

,

,

,

De Clercq, J. Ooms, D. Carugi, M.
Private Network (VPN) Extension for IPv6 VPN" RFC 4659 DOI 10.17487/RFC4659
,
September 2006,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4659>
.

F. Le Faucheur "BGP-MPLS IP Virtual

, and

,

,

,

,

Bates, T. Chandra, R. Katz, D.
BGP-4" RFC 4760 DOI 10.17487/RFC4760
editor.org/info/rfc4760>
.

, and

,

,

,

Y. Rekhter "Multiprotocol Extensions for

,

, January 2007,

<https://www.rfc-

,

, and
Aggarwal, R. Rosen, E. Morin, T.
,
for Multicast in MPLS/BGP IP VPNs" RFC 6514 DOI 10.17487/RFC6514
2012,

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6514>

,

,

Y. Rekhter "BGP Encodings and Procedures

, February

,

Sajassi, A., Ed. Aggarwal, R. Bitar, N. Isaac, A. Uttaro, J. Drake, J.
,
Henderickx "BGP MPLS-Based Ethernet VPN" RFC 7432 DOI 10.17487/RFC7432
February 2015,

,
,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7432>

, and

,
,

W.

,

,

,

,

Chen, E., Ed. Scudder, J., Ed. Mohapatra, P.
for BGP UPDATE Messages" RFC 7606 DOI 10.17487/RFC7606
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7606>

, and

,
,

,

,

K. Patel "Revised Error Handling

, August 2015,

,
,
Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
.
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

Deering, S.
86 RFC 8200 DOI 10.17487/RFC8200
.
rfc8200>

 and
,

,

,

R. Hinden "Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6) Speciﬁcation" STD

,

, July 2017,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

Boutros, S. Sajassi, A. Salam, S. Drake, J.
,
Service Support in Ethernet VPN" RFC 8214 DOI 10.17487/RFC8214
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8214>

J. Rabadan "Virtual Private Wire
, August 2017,

, and
,

,

,

,

,
Rosen, E. "Using BGP to Bind MPLS Labels to Address Preﬁxes" RFC 8277 DOI
10.17487/RFC8277

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8277>

, October 2017,

,

Dawra, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9252

SRv6-Based BGP Overlay Services

July 2022

[RFC8317]

[RFC8365]

[RFC8402]

[RFC8669]

[RFC8754]

[RFC8950]

[RFC8986]

[RFC9136]

[RFC9251]

,

,

Sajassi, A., Ed. Salam, S. Drake, J. Uttaro, J. Boutros, S.
"Ethernet-Tree (E-Tree) Support in Ethernet VPN (EVPN) and Provider Backbone
Bridging EVPN (PBB-EVPN)" RFC 8317 DOI 10.17487/RFC8317
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8317>
.

, January 2018,

J. Rabadan

, and

,

,

,

,

,

,

Sajassi, A., Ed. Drake, J., Ed. Bitar, N. Shekhar, R. Uttaro, J.
"A Network Virtualization Overlay Solution Using Ethernet VPN (EVPN)" RFC
8365 DOI 10.17487/RFC8365
,
rfc8365>
.

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, March 2018,

W. Henderickx

, and

,

,

,

,

,

Filsﬁls, C., Ed. Previdi, S., Ed. Ginsberg, L. Decraene, B. Litkowski, S.
, and
Shakir "Segment Routing Architecture" RFC 8402 DOI 10.17487/RFC8402
2018,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8402>
.

,

,

,

,

,

,

R.
, July

,

Previdi, S. Filsﬁls, C. Lindem, A., Ed. Sreekantiah, A.
H. Gredler "Segment
,
Routing Preﬁx Segment Identiﬁer Extensions for BGP" RFC 8669 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8669

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8669>
.

, December 2019,

, and
,

,

,

,

,

Filsﬁls, C., Ed. Dukes, D., Ed. Previdi, S. Leddy, J. Matsushima, S.
"IPv6 Segment Routing Header (SRH)" RFC 8754 DOI 10.17487/RFC8754
2020,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8754>

, and

,
,

,
,

,

,
D. Voyer
, March

,

,

Litkowski, S. Agrawal, S. Ananthamurthy, K.
Network Layer Reachability Information (NLRI) with an IPv6 Next Hop" RFC
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
8950 DOI 10.17487/RFC8950
.
rfc8950>

K. Patel "Advertising IPv4

, November 2020,

, and

,

,

,

,
Filsﬁls, C., Ed. Camarillo, P., Ed. Leddy, J. Voyer, D. Matsushima, S.
Z. Li
"Segment Routing over IPv6 (SRv6) Network Programming" RFC 8986 DOI
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8986>
10.17487/RFC8986

, February 2021,

, and
,

,

,

,

,

,

,
A. Sajassi "IP Preﬁx
Rabadan, J., Ed. Henderickx, W. Drake, J. Lin, W.
,
Advertisement in Ethernet VPN (EVPN)" RFC 9136 DOI 10.17487/RFC9136
October 2021,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9136>

, and
,

,

,

,

,

,

Sajassi, A. Thoria, S. Mishra, M. Patel, K. Drake, J.
W. Lin "Internet Group
Management Protocol (IGMP) and Multicast Listener Discovery (MLD) Proxies
for Ethernet VPN (EVPN)" RFC 9251 DOI 10.17487/RFC9251
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9251>

, June 2022,

<https://

, and

,

,

,

,

,

10.2.  Informative References

[IGP-FLEX-ALGO]

Psenak, P., Ed. Hegde, S. Filsﬁls, C. Talaulikar, K.
,

,

,

, and

A. Gulko "IGP Flexible

,

Algorithm" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-lsr-ﬂex-algo-20
, 18 May
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-lsr-ﬂex-algo-20>
2022,
.

,

,

[RFC2827]

 and

D. Senie "Network Ingress Filtering: Defeating Denial of Service

Ferguson, P.
Attacks which employ IP Source Address Spooﬁng" BCP 38 RFC 2827 DOI
10.17487/RFC2827

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2827>

, May 2000,

,

,

,

Dawra, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9252

SRv6-Based BGP Overlay Services

July 2022

[RFC3704]

[RFC4272]

[RFC5925]

[RFC6513]

[RFC6952]

[RFC8126]

[RFC9012]

 and

Baker, F.
3704 DOI 10.17487/RFC3704
,
rfc3704>
.

,

P. Savola "Ingress Filtering for Multihomed Networks" BCP 84 RFC

,

,

, March 2004,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

Murphy, S. "BGP Security Vulnerabilities Analysis" RFC 4272 DOI 10.17487/
RFC4272

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4272>
.

, January 2006,

,

,

,

,

Touch, J. Mankin, A.
DOI 10.17487/RFC5925

, and

,
R. Bonica "The TCP Authentication Option" RFC 5925

,

,

, June 2010,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5925>

Rosen, E., Ed.
DOI 10.17487/RFC6513

,
R. Aggarwal, Ed. "Multicast in MPLS/BGP IP VPNs" RFC 6513
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6513>

, February 2012,

 and

,

,

,

,
L. Zheng "Analysis of BGP, LDP, PCEP, and MSDP
Jethanandani, M. Patel, K.
Issues According to the Keying and Authentication for Routing Protocols (KARP)
,
Design Guide" RFC 6952 DOI 10.17487/RFC6952
.
editor.org/info/rfc6952>

<https://www.rfc-

, May 2013,

, and

,

,
Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

, June

,

Patel, K. Van de Velde, G. Sangli, S.
Encapsulation Attribute" RFC 9012 DOI 10.17487/RFC9012
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9012>

, and
,

,
,

,

J. Scudder "The BGP Tunnel

, April 2021,

<https://

[SEGMENT-ROUTING-POLICY]

Filsﬁls, C. Talaulikar, K., Ed. Voyer, D. Bogdanov, A.

,

,

,

, and

P.

,

Mattes "Segment Routing Policy Architecture" Work in Progress Internet-Draft,
draft-ietf-spring-segment-routing-policy-22
.
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-spring-segment-routing-policy-22>

, 22 March 2022,

<https://

,

,

Acknowledgements

,

,

The authors of this document would like to thank
Xiejingrong Rajesh M. Mustapha Aissaoui Alexander Vainshtein Eduard Metz Shraddha Hegde
,
Eduard Vasilenko Ron Bonica
document. The authors would also like to thank Document Shepherd
review and AD
this document.

 for his review that resulted in helpful comments for improving

 for their comments and review of this

Stephane Litkowski Rishabh Parekh
,

,
Joel Halpern

Martin Vigoureux

Matthew Bocci

 for his

, and

,

,

,

,

Contributors

Clarence Filsﬁls
Cisco
Email:

 cﬁlsﬁl@cisco.com

Dawra, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9252

SRv6-Based BGP Overlay Services

July 2022

Satoru Matsushima
SoftBank
Email:

 satoru.matsushima@g.softbank.co.jp

Dirk Steinberg
Steinberg Consulting
Email:

 dirk@lapishills.com

Daniel Bernier
Bell Canada
Email:

 daniel.bernier@bell.ca

Daniel Voyer
Bell Canada
Email:

 daniel.voyer@bell.ca

Jonn Leddy
Individual
Email:

 john@leddy.net

Swadesh Agrawal
Cisco
Email:

 swaagraw@cisco.com

Patrice Brissette
Cisco
Email:

 pbrisset@cisco.com

Ali Sajassi
Cisco
Email:

 sajassi@cisco.com

Bart Peirens
Proximus
Belgium
Email:

 bart.peirens@proximus.com

Darren Dukes
Cisco
Email:

 ddukes@cisco.com

Pablo Camarilo
Cisco
Email:

 pcamaril@cisco.com

Shyam Sethuram
Cisco
Email:

 shyam.ioml@gmail.com

Dawra, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 9252

SRv6-Based BGP Overlay Services

July 2022

Zafar Ali
Cisco
Email:

 zali@cisco.com

Authors' Addresses

editor
)

Gaurav Dawra (
LinkedIn
United States of America
Email:

 gdawra.ietf@gmail.com

editor
)

Ketan Talaulikar (
Cisco Systems
India
Email:

 ketant.ietf@gmail.com

Robert Raszuk
NTT Network Innovations
940 Stewart Dr.
Sunnyvale CA 94085
,
United States of America
Email:

 robert@raszuk.net

Bruno Decraene
Orange
France
Email:

 bruno.decraene@orange.com

Shunwan Zhuang
Huawei Technologies
China
Email:

 zhuangshunwan@huawei.com

Jorge Rabadan
Nokia
United States of America
Email:

 jorge.rabadan@nokia.com

Dawra, et al.

Standards Track

Page 29

