Stream:
RFC:
Obsoletes:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9598
8398
5280
Standards Track
May 2024
2070-1721
A. Melnikov
Isode Ltd

W. Chuang
Google, Inc.

C. Bonnell
DigiCert

RFC 9598
Internationalized Email Addresses in X.509
Certificates

Abstract

This document defines a new name form for inclusion in the otherName field of an X.509 Subject
Alternative Name and Issuer Alternative Name extension that allows a certificate subject to be
associated with an internationalized email address.

This document updates RFC 5280 and obsoletes RFC 8398.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9598
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Melnikov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9598

I18N Mail Addresses in X.509 Certificates

May 2024

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Conventions Used in This Document

3.  Name Definitions

4.  IDNA2008

5.  Matching of Internationalized Email Addresses in X.509 Certificates

6.  Name Constraints in Path Validation

7.  Security Considerations

8.  Differences from RFC 8398

9.  IANA Considerations

10. References

10.1.  Normative References

10.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  ASN.1 Module

Appendix B.  Example of SmtpUTF8Mailbox

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

2

3

3

4

4

6

7

8

8

8

8

9

9

10

11

11

[RFC5321]

. The syntax of rfc822Name is restricted to a subset of US-ASCII

 defines the rfc822Name subjectAltName name type for representing email addresses

[RFC5280]
as described in
characters and thus can't be used to represent internationalized email addresses
document defines a new otherName variant to represent internationalized email addresses. In
addition, this document requires all email address domains in X.509 certificates to conform to
IDNA2008

[RFC5890]
.

[RFC6531]

. This

Melnikov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9598

I18N Mail Addresses in X.509 Certificates

May 2024

[RFC8398]

This document obsoletes
encoding of domain labels found in the domain part of internationalized email addresses. In
particular,
 specifies that domain labels are conditionally encoded using either A-labels
or U-labels. This specification simplifies encoding and processing of domain labels by mandating
that the A-label representation be used in all cases.

. The primary motivation of this document is to simplify the

[RFC8398]

2.  Conventions Used in This Document

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Name Definitions

The GeneralName structure
 supports many different name forms including
otherName for extensibility. This section specifies the SmtpUTF8Mailbox name form of
otherName so that internationalized email addresses can appear in the subjectAltName of a
certificate, the issuerAltName of a certificate, or anywhere else that GeneralName is used.

[RFC5280]

id-on-SmtpUTF8Mailbox OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { id-on 9 }

SmtpUTF8Mailbox ::= UTF8String (SIZE (1..MAX))
-- SmtpUTF8Mailbox conforms to Mailbox as specified
-- in Section 3.3 of RFC 6531. Additionally, all domain
-- labels included in the SmtpUTF8Mailbox value are
-- encoded as LDH labels. In particular, domain labels
-- are not encoded as U-labels and instead are encoded
-- using their A-label representation.

MUST

When the subjectAltName (or issuerAltName) extension contains an internationalized email
address with a non-ASCII Local-part, the address
form of otherName. The format of SmtpUTF8Mailbox is a modified version of the
internationalized Mailbox that was defined in
Mailbox as defined in
Mailbox whose parts are modified for internationalization: Local-part, Dot-string, Quoted-
string, QcontentSMTP, Domain, and Atom. In particular, Local-part was updated to also support
UTF8-non-ascii. UTF8-non-ascii was described by
extended to support U-labels, as defined in

, which was derived from
 defines the following ABNF rules for

 be stored in the SmtpUTF8Mailbox name

Section 4.1.2 of [RFC5321] [RFC6531]

Section 3.1 of [RFC6532]

Section 3.3 of [RFC6531]

. Also, domain was

[RFC5890]
.

.

 be stored in A-label (rather than U-label) form

This document further refines internationalized Mailbox ABNF rules as described in
and calls this SmtpUTF8Mailbox. In SmtpUTF8Mailbox, labels that include non-ASCII characters
MUST
complexity for implementations of the certification path validation algorithm defined in
6 of [RFC5280]
neither A- nor U-labels)

. In SmtpUTF8Mailbox, domain labels that solely use ASCII characters (meaning

 use NR-LDH restrictions as specified by

. This restriction reduces

Section 2.3.1 of [RFC5890]
.

[RFC6531]

[RFC5890]

Section

SHALL

Melnikov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9598

I18N Mail Addresses in X.509 Certificates

May 2024

NR-LDH stands for "Non-Reserved Letters Digits Hyphen" and is the set of LDH labels that do not
have "--" characters in the third and forth character positions, which excludes "tagged domain
names" such as A-labels. To facilitate octet-for-octet comparisons of SmtpUTF8Mailbox values, all
NR-LDH and A-label labels that constitute the domain part
SHALL
lowercase letters. Consistent with the treatment of rfc822Name in
, SmtpUTF8Mailbox
is an envelope Mailbox and has no phrase (such as a common name) before it, has no comment
(text surrounded in parentheses) after it, and is not surrounded by "<" and ">" characters.

 only be encoded with
[RFC5280]

MUST NOT

Due to name constraint compatibility reasons described in Section 6, SmtpUTF8Mailbox
subjectAltName
characters. When the Local-part is ASCII, rfc822Name subjectAltName
SmtpUTF8Mailbox. This is compatible with legacy software that supports only rfc822Name (and
not SmtpUTF8Mailbox). The appropriate usage of rfc822Name and SmtpUTF8Mailbox is
summarized in Table 1 below.

 be used unless the Local-part of the email address contains non-ASCII

 be used instead of

MUST

SmtpUTF8Mailbox is encoded as UTF8String. The UTF8String encoding
Order Mark (BOM)
comparison.

[RFC3629]

 to aid consistency across implementations, particularly for

MUST NOT

 contain a Byte

Local-part char

subjectAltName

ASCII-only

rfc822Name

non-ASCII

SmtpUTF8Mailbox

Table 1: Email Address Formatting

Non-ASCII Local-part values may additionally include ASCII characters.

4.  IDNA2008

 conform to IDNA2008

To facilitate comparison between email addresses, all email address domains in X.509 certificates
 (and avoid any "mappings" mentioned in that document).
MUST
Use of non-conforming email address domains introduces the possibility of conversion errors
between alternate forms. This applies to SmtpUTF8Mailbox and rfc822Name in subjectAltName,
issuerAltName, and anywhere else that these are used.

[RFC5890]

5.  Matching of Internationalized Email Addresses in X.509
Certificates

Equivalence comparisons with SmtpUTF8Mailbox consist of a domain part step and a Local-part
step. The comparison form for Local-parts is always UTF-8. The comparison form for domain
parts is always performed with the LDH label (
labels. The comparison of LDH labels in domain parts reduces complexity for implementations of
the certification path validation algorithm as defined in
need to convert domain labels to their Unicode representation.

) encoding of the relevant domain

Section 6 of [RFC5280]

 by obviating the

[RFC5890]

Melnikov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9598

I18N Mail Addresses in X.509 Certificates

May 2024

Comparison of two SmtpUTF8Mailboxes is straightforward with no setup work needed. They are
considered equivalent if there is an exact octet-for-octet match.

 contain a Local-part that includes one or more non-ASCII characters, while rfc822Names

Comparison of an SmtpUTF8Mailbox and rfc822Name will always fail. SmtpUTF8Mailbox values
SHALL
only includes ASCII characters (including the Local-part). Thus, an SmtpUTF8Mailbox and
rfc822Name will never match.

Comparison of SmtpUTF8Mailbox values with internationalized email addresses from other
sources (such as received email messages, user input, etc.) requires additional setup steps for
domain part and Local-part. The initial preparation for the email address to compare with the
SmtpUTF8Mailbox value is to remove any phrases, comments, and "<" or ">" characters.

For the setup of the domain part, the following conversions

SHALL

 be performed:

1.

Convert all labels that constitute the domain part that include non-ASCII characters to A-
labels, if not already in that form.

a.

Detect all U-labels present within the domain part using

Section 5.1 of [RFC5891]
.

b.

Transform all detected U-labels (Unicode) to A-labels (ASCII) as specified in
[RFC5891]
.

Section 5.5 of

2.

Convert all uppercase letters found within the NR-LDH and A-label labels that constitute the
domain part to lowercase letters.

[RFC6531]

For the setup of the Local-part, the Local-part
[RFC6530]
MUST NOT
kind. The Local-part of an internationalized email address is already in UTF-8. Once setup is
complete, they are again compared octet for octet.

 and
 be transformed in any way, such as by doing case folding or normalization of any

, including being a string in UTF-8 form. In particular, the Local- part

 be verified to conform to the requirements of

MUST

To summarize non-normatively, the comparison steps, including setup, are:

1.

If the domain contains U-labels, transform them to A-labels.

2.

If any NR-LDH or A-label domain label in the domain part contains uppercase letters,
lowercase them.

3.

Compare strings octet for octet for equivalence.

This specification expressly does not define any wildcard characters, and SmtpUTF8Mailbox
comparison implementations
MUST NOT
multiple email addresses through SmtpUTF8Mailbox, the certificate
 use multiple
subjectAltNames or issuerAltNames to explicitly carry any additional email addresses.

 interpret any characters as wildcards. Instead, to specify

MUST

Melnikov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9598

I18N Mail Addresses in X.509 Certificates

May 2024

6.  Name Constraints in Path Validation

Section 4.2.1.10 of [RFC5280]

This section updates
SmtpUTF8Mailbox subjectAltNames. SmtpUTF8Mailbox-aware path validators will apply name
constraint comparison to the subject distinguished name and both forms of subject alternative
names, rfc822Name and SmtpUTF8Mailbox.

 to extend rfc822Name name constraints to

 updates, modifies, and extends rfc822Name name constraints defined in

Both rfc822Name and SmtpUTF8Mailbox subject alternative names represent the same
underlying email address namespace. Since legacy Certification Authorities (CAs) constrained to
issue certificates for a specific set of domains would lack corresponding UTF-8 constraints,
[RFC9549]
cover SmtpUTF8Mailbox subject alternative names. This ensures that the introduction of
SmtpUTF8Mailbox does not violate existing name constraints. Since it is not valid to include non-
ASCII UTF-8 characters in the Local-part of rfc822Name name constraints, and since name
constraints that include a Local-part are rarely, if at all, used in practice, name constraints
updated in
 allow the forms that represent all addresses at a host, or all mailboxes in a
domain and deprecates rfc822Name name constraints that represent a particular mailbox. That
is, rfc822Name constraints with a Local-part

SHOULD NOT

[RFC9549]

[RFC5280]

 be used.

 to

Constraint comparison with SmtpUTF8Mailbox subjectAltName starts with the setup steps
defined in Section 5. Setup converts the inputs of the comparison (which is one of a subject
distinguished name, an rfc822Name, or an SmtpUTF8Mailbox subjectAltName, and one of an
rfc822Name name constraint) to constraint comparison form. For both the name constraint and
the subject, this will convert all A-labels and NR-LDH labels to lowercase. Strip the Local-part and
"@" separator from each rfc822Name and SmtpUTF8Mailbox, which leaves just the domain part.
 as follows. If the
After setup, follow the comparison steps defined in
resulting name constraint domain starts with a "." character, then for the name constraint to
match, a suffix of the resulting subject alternative name domain
constraint (including the leading ".") octet for octet. If the resulting name constraint domain does
not start with a "." character, then for the name constraint to match, the entire resulting subject
alternative name domain

 match the name constraint octet for octet.

Section 4.2.1.10 of [RFC5280]

 match the name

MUST

MUST

Certificate Authorities that wish to issue CA certificates with email address name constraints
 be IDNA2008-conformant
MUST
names with no mappings and with non-ASCII domains encoded in A-labels only.

 use rfc822Name subject alternative names only. These

MUST

The name constraint requirement with an SmtpUTF8Mailbox subject alternative name is
illustrated in the non-normative diagram in Figure 1. The first example (1) illustrates a permitted
rfc822Name ASCII-only host name name constraint and the corresponding valid rfc822Name
subjectAltName and SmtpUTF8Mailbox subjectAltName email addresses. The second example (2)
illustrates a permitted rfc822Name host name name constraint with an A-label, and the
corresponding valid rfc822Name subjectAltName and SmtpUTF8Mailbox subjectAltName email
addresses. Note that an email address with an ASCII-only Local-part is encoded as rfc822Name
despite also having Unicode present in the domain.

Melnikov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9598

I18N Mail Addresses in X.509 Certificates

May 2024

+-------------------------------------------------------------------+
|  Root CA Cert                                                     |
+-------------------------------------------------------------------+
                                  |
                                  v
+-------------------------------------------------------------------+
|  Intermediate CA Cert                                             |
|      Permitted                                                    |
|        rfc822Name: elementary.school.example.com (1)              |
|                                                                   |
|        rfc822Name: xn--pss25c.example.com (2)                     |
|                                                                   |
+-------------------------------------------------------------------+
                                  |
                                  v
+-------------------------------------------------------------------+
|  Entity Cert (w/explicitly permitted subjects)                    |
|    SubjectAltName Extension                                       |
|      rfc822Name: student@elementary.school.example.com (1)        |
|      SmtpUTF8Mailbox: u+5B66u+751F@elementary.school.example.com  |
|        (1)                                                        |
|                                                                   |
|      rfc822Name: student@xn--pss25c.example.com (2)               |
|      SmtpUTF8Mailbox: u+533Bu+751F@xn--pss25c.example.com (2)     |
|                                                                   |
+-------------------------------------------------------------------+

Figure 1: Name Constraints with SmtpUTF8Name and rfc822Name

7.  Security Considerations

Use of SmtpUTF8Mailbox for certificate subjectAltName (and issuerAltName) will incur many of
the same security considerations described in
issue by permitting non-ASCII characters in the email address Local-part. This issue, as
mentioned in
introduces the risk of visually similar and identical characters that can be exploited to deceive
the recipient. The former document references some means to mitigate against these attacks. See
[WEBER]

 for more background on security issues with Unicode.

, but it introduces a new

Section 4.4 of [RFC5890]

, is that use of Unicode

Section 8 of [RFC5280]

Section 4 of [RFC6532]

 and in

Additionally, it is possible to encode a string of Unicode user-perceived characters in multiple
ways. While various Unicode normalization forms exist,
any such forms for the encoding of the Local-part. Thus, it may be possible to encode a Local-part
value in multiple ways. To mitigate against attacks where different encodings are used by the
mail system and the Certification Authority issues certificates containing SmtpUTF8Mailbox
values, this specification requires an octet-for-octet comparison of the Local-part. However,
requiring the use of binary comparison may raise interoperability concerns where the mail
system employs one encoding and the Certification Authority employs another.

 does not mandate the use of

[RFC6531]

Melnikov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9598

I18N Mail Addresses in X.509 Certificates

May 2024

8.  Differences from RFC 8398

This document obsoletes

[RFC8398]

. There are three major changes defined in this specification:

1.

In all cases, domain labels in mail addresses
domain names

SHALL NOT

 be encoded using U-Labels; instead, use A-Labels.

SHALL

 be encoded as LDH labels. In particular,

2.

To accommodate the first change listed above, the mail address matching algorithm defined
in
using their A-label representation.

 has been modified to only accept domain labels that are encoded

Section 5 of [RFC8398]

3.

Additionally, the procedure to process rfc822Name name constraints as defined in
of [RFC8398]
label representation.

Section 6
 has been modified to only accept domain labels that are encoded using their A-

9.  IANA Considerations

IANA has updated the reference for the id-mod-lamps-eai-addresses-2016 module in the "SMI
Security for PKIX Module Identifier" (1.3.6.1.5.5.7.0) registry to refer to this document instead of
[RFC8398]
.

IANA has updated the reference for the SmtpUTF8Mailbox otherName in the "SMI Security for
[RFC8398]
.
PKIX Other Name Forms" (1.3.6.1.5.5.7.8) registry to refer to this document instead of

10.  References

10.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC3629]

[RFC5280]

[RFC5321]

[RFC5890]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Yergeau, F. "UTF-8, a transformation format of ISO 10646" STD 63 RFC 3629
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC3629
rfc3629>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, November 2003,

,

,

.

,

,

,

Cooper, D. Santesson, S. Farrell, S. Boeyen, S. Housley, R.
"Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certificate and Certificate Revocation
List (CRL) Profile" RFC 5280 DOI 10.17487/RFC5280
editor.org/info/rfc5280>

, May 2008,

<https://www.rfc-

W. Polk

, and

,

.

,

,

,

,

Klensin, J. "Simple Mail Transfer Protocol" RFC 5321 DOI 10.17487/RFC5321
October 2008,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5321>

,

,

,

.

,

,

Klensin, J. "Internationalized Domain Names for Applications (IDNA):
Definitions and Document Framework" RFC 5890 DOI 10.17487/RFC5890
August 2010,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5890>

,

,

.

,

Melnikov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9598

I18N Mail Addresses in X.509 Certificates

May 2024

[RFC5891]

Klensin, J. "Internationalized Domain Names in Applications (IDNA): Protocol"
,
RFC 5891 DOI 10.17487/RFC5891
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, August 2010,
rfc5891>

,
,
.

[RFC6530]

[RFC6531]

[RFC6532]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8398]

[RFC9549]

Klensin, J.
 and
RFC 6530 DOI 10.17487/RFC6530
,
info/rfc6530>

,

.

Y. Ko "Overview and Framework for Internationalized Email"
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, February 2012,

Yao, J.
 and
10.17487/RFC6531

W. Mao "SMTP Extension for Internationalized Email" RFC 6531 DOI

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6531>
.

,
, February 2012,

,

Yang, A. Steele, S.
,
, and
DOI 10.17487/RFC6532
rfc6532>

.

N. Freed "Internationalized Email Headers" RFC 6532
, February 2012,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Melnikov, A., Ed.
 and
509 Certificates" RFC 8398 DOI 10.17487/RFC8398
,
editor.org/info/rfc8398>
.

W. Chuang, Ed. "Internationalized Email Addresses in X.
<https://www.rfc-

, May 2018,

,

,

Housley, R. "Internationalization Updates to RFC 5280" RFC 9549 DOI 10.17487/
RFC9549

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9549>

, March 2024,

,

,

,

.

10.2.  Informative References

[RFC5912]

[WEBER]

 and

J. Schaad "New ASN.1 Modules for the Public Key

Hoffman, P.
Infrastructure Using X.509 (PKIX)" RFC 5912 DOI 10.17487/RFC5912
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5912>

,

,

.

, June 2010,

,

Weber, C. "Unraveling Unicode: A Bag of Tricks for Bug Hunting"
<https://www.lookout.net/files/
Chris_Weber_Character%20Transformations%20v1.7_IUC33.pdf>

.

, July 2009,

Appendix A.  ASN.1 Module

The following ASN.1 module normatively specifies the SmtpUTF8Mailbox structure. This
specification uses the ASN.1 definitions from
document.

[RFC5912]
 updates normative documents using older ASN.1 notation.

[RFC5912]

 with the 2002 ASN.1 notation used in that

Melnikov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9598

I18N Mail Addresses in X.509 Certificates

May 2024

LAMPS-EaiAddresses-2016
{ iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6)
  internet(1) security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) id-mod(0)
  id-mod-lamps-eai-addresses-2016(92) }

DEFINITIONS IMPLICIT TAGS ::=
BEGIN

IMPORTS
OTHER-NAME
FROM PKIX1Implicit-2009
  { iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1) security(5)
  mechanisms(5) pkix(7) id-mod(0) id-mod-pkix1-implicit-02(59) }

id-pkix
FROM PKIX1Explicit-2009
  { iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1) security(5)
  mechanisms(5) pkix(7) id-mod(0) id-mod-pkix1-explicit-02(51) } ;

--
-- otherName carries additional name types for subjectAltName,
-- issuerAltName, and other uses of GeneralNames.
--

id-on OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { id-pkix 8 }

SmtpUtf8OtherNames OTHER-NAME ::= { on-SmtpUTF8Mailbox, ... }

on-SmtpUTF8Mailbox OTHER-NAME ::= {
    SmtpUTF8Mailbox IDENTIFIED BY id-on-SmtpUTF8Mailbox
}

id-on-SmtpUTF8Mailbox OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { id-on 9 }

SmtpUTF8Mailbox ::= UTF8String (SIZE (1..MAX))
-- SmtpUTF8Mailbox conforms to Mailbox as specified
-- in Section 3.3 of RFC 6531. Additionally, all domain
-- labels included in the SmtpUTF8Mailbox value are
-- encoded as LDH Labels. In particular, domain labels
-- are not encoded as U-Labels and instead are encoded
-- using their A-label representation.

END

Appendix B.  Example of SmtpUTF8Mailbox

This non-normative example demonstrates using SmtpUTF8Mailbox as an otherName in
GeneralName to encode the email address "u+533Bu+751F@xn--pss25c.example.com".

The hexadecimal DER encoding of the block is:

a02b0608 2b060105 05070809 a01f0c1d e58cbbe7 949f4078 6e2d2d70
73733235 632e6578 616d706c 652e636f 6d

Melnikov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9598

I18N Mail Addresses in X.509 Certificates

May 2024

The text decoding is:

0  43: [0] {
2   8:   OBJECT IDENTIFIER '1 3 6 1 5 5 7 8 9'
12  31:   [0] {
14  29:     UTF8String 'u+533Bu+751F@xn--pss25c.example.com'
      :     }
      :   }

The example was encoded using Google's "der-ascii" program and the above text decoding is an
output of Peter Gutmann's "dumpasn1" program.

Acknowledgments

The authors thank David Benjamin for providing the motivation for this document. Additionally,
the authors thank Éric Vyncke, John Levine, Peter van Dijk, Rich Salz, Russ Housley, and Tim
Hollebeek for their reviews and feedback, which meaningfully improved the document.

The authors also recognize and appreciate the following individuals for their contributions to
[RFC8398]
:

Thank you to Magnus Nystrom for motivating this document. Thanks to Russ Housley,
Nicolas Lidzborski, Laetitia Baudoin, Ryan Sleevi, Sean Leonard, Sean Turner, John
Levine, and Patrik Falstrom for their feedback. Also special thanks to John Klensin for
his valuable input on internationalization, Unicode, and ABNF formatting; to Jim Schaad
for his help with the ASN.1 example and his helpful feedback; and especially to Viktor
Dukhovni for helping us with name constraints and his many detailed document
reviews.

Authors' Addresses

Alexey Melnikov
Isode Ltd
14 Castle Mews
Hampton, Middlesex
TW12 2NP
United Kingdom
Email:

 Alexey.Melnikov@isode.com

Melnikov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9598

I18N Mail Addresses in X.509 Certificates

May 2024

Wei Chuang
Google, Inc.
1600 Amphitheater Parkway
Mountain View CA
United States of America
Email:

 weihaw@google.com

,

Corey Bonnell
DigiCert
Pittsburgh PA
United States of America
Email:

,

 corey.bonnell@digicert.com

Melnikov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

