Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9213
Standards Track
June 2022
2070-1721
S. Ludin
Akamai

M. Nottingham
Fastly

Y. Wu
Cloudﬂare

RFC 9213
Targeted HTTP Cache Control

Abstract

This speciﬁcation deﬁnes a convention for HTTP response header ﬁelds that allow cache
directives to be targeted at speciﬁc caches or classes of caches. It also deﬁnes one such header
ﬁeld, the CDN-Cache-Control response header ﬁeld, which is targeted at content delivery network
(CDN) caches.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9213
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

Ludin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9213

Targeted HTTP Cache Control

June 2022

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Notational Conventions

2.  Targeted Cache-Control Header Fields

2.1.  Syntax

2.2.  Cache Behavior

2.3.  Interaction with HTTP Freshness

2.4.  Deﬁning Targeted Fields

3.  The CDN-Cache-Control Targeted Field

3.1.  Examples

4.  IANA Considerations

5.  Security Considerations

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

6.2.  Informative References

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

Modern deployments of HTTP often use multiple layers of caching. For example, a website might
use a cache on the origin server itself; it might deploy a caching layer in the same network as the
origin server, it might use one or more CDNs that are distributed throughout the Internet, and it
might beneﬁt from browser caching as well.

Because it is often desirable to control these diﬀerent classes of caches separately, some means of
targeting cache directives at them is necessary. For example, if a publisher has a mechanism to
invalidate the contents of a cache that it has a relationship with (such as a CDN cache), they might
be more comfortable assigning a more generous caching policy to it while still wanting to restrict
the behavior of other caches.

The HTTP Cache-Control response header ﬁeld (deﬁned in
) is
widely used to direct caching behavior. However, it is relatively undiﬀerentiated; while some
cache directives (e.g., s-maxage) are targeted at a speciﬁc class of caches (for s-maxage, shared

Section 5.2 of [HTTP-CACHING]

Ludin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9213

Targeted HTTP Cache Control

June 2022

caches), targeting is not consistently available across all existing cache directives (e.g., stale-
while-revalidate). This is problematic especially as the number of caching extensions grows along
with the number of potential targets.

Some implementations have deﬁned ad hoc control mechanisms to overcome this issue, but their
interoperability is low. Section 2 deﬁnes a standard framework for targeted cache control using
HTTP response headers, and Section 3 deﬁnes one such header: the CDN-Cache-Control response
header ﬁeld.

1.1.  Notational Conventions

The key words "
", "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
", "
"
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

2.  Targeted Cache-Control Header Fields

A Targeted Cache-Control Header Field (hereafter "targeted ﬁeld") is an HTTP response header
ﬁeld that has the same semantics as the Cache-Control response header ﬁeld (
Section 5.2

[HTTP-CACHING],
). However, it has a distinct ﬁeld name that indicates the target for its cache directives.

For example:

CDN-Cache-Control: max-age=60

is a targeted ﬁeld that applies to CDNs, as deﬁned in Section 3.

2.1.  Syntax

Targeted ﬁelds are Dictionary Structured Fields (
member of the Dictionary is an HTTP cache response directive (
including extension response directives (as per
targeted ﬁelds often have the same syntax as Cache-Control ﬁelds, diﬀerences in error handling
mean that using a Cache-Control parser rather than a Structured Fields parser can introduce
interoperability issues.

)
Section 5.2.2 of [HTTP-CACHING]
). Note that while

Section 3.2 of [STRUCTURED-FIELDS]

Section 5.2.3 of [HTTP-CACHING]

). Each

Because cache directives are not deﬁned in terms of structured data types, it is necessary to map
their values into the appropriate types.
values to be either absent, a quoted-string, or a token.

Section 5.2 of [HTTP-CACHING]

 deﬁnes cache directive

This means that cache directives that have no value will be mapped to a Boolean (
[STRUCTURED-FIELDS]
3.3.3 of [STRUCTURED-FIELDS]
[STRUCTURED-FIELDS]
(
Section 3.3.2 of [STRUCTURED-FIELDS]

), and when it is a token, it will map to a Token (

), depending on the content of the value.

Section 3.3.1 of [STRUCTURED-FIELDS]

). When the value is a quoted-string, it will be mapped to a String (

), an Integer (

), or a Decimal

Section 3.3.4 of

Section 3.3.6 of
Section

Ludin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9213

Targeted HTTP Cache Control

June 2022

Section 5.2.2.5 of [HTTP-CACHING]

For example, the max-age directive (
store (
5.2.2.4 of [HTTP-CACHING]
comma-delimited list of ﬁeld names.

Section 5.2.2.1 of [HTTP-CACHING]

) always has a Boolean true value, and no-cache (

) has an integer value; no-
Section

) has a value that can be either Boolean true or a string containing a

Implementations
directive's value. In particular, string values whose ﬁrst character is not alphabetic or "*"
generated as Strings so that they are not mistaken for other types.

 generate values that violate these inferred constraints on the cache

MUST NOT

MUST

 be

SHOULD NOT

Implementations
example, a consuming implementation that coerces a max-age with a decimal value into an
integer would behave diﬀerently than other implementations, potentially causing
interoperability issues.

 consume values that violate these inferred constraints. For

Parameters received on cache directives are to be ignored, unless other handling is explicitly
speciﬁed.

If a targeted ﬁeld in a given response is empty, or a parsing error is encountered, that ﬁeld
MUST
be ignored by the cache (i.e., it behaves as if the ﬁeld were not present, likely falling back to other
cache-control mechanisms present).

2.2.  Cache Behavior

A cache that implements this speciﬁcation maintains a target list. A target list is an ordered list of
the targeted ﬁeld names that it uses for caching policy, with the order reﬂecting priority from
most applicable to least. The target list might be ﬁxed, user conﬁgurable, or generated per request,
depending upon the implementation.

For example, a CDN cache might support both CDN-Cache-Control and a header speciﬁc to that
CDN, ExampleCDN-Cache-Control, with the latter overriding the former. Its target list would be:

  [ExampleCDN-Cache-Control, CDN-Cache-Control]

When a cache that implements this speciﬁcation receives a response with one or more of the
header ﬁeld names on its target list, the cache
MUST
a valid, non-empty value and use its value to determine the caching policy for the response, and it
MUST
empty value is available from the listed header ﬁelds.

 ignore the Cache-Control and Expires header ﬁelds in that response, unless no valid, non-

 select the ﬁrst (in target-list order) ﬁeld with

Note that this occurs on a response-by-response basis; if no member of the cache's target list is
present, valid, and non-empty, a cache falls back to other cache control mechanisms as required
by HTTP

[HTTP-CACHING]

.

Targeted ﬁelds that are not on a cache's target list
MUST

 be passed through.

MUST NOT

 change that cache's behavior and

Ludin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9213

Targeted HTTP Cache Control

June 2022

Caches that use a targeted ﬁeld

MUST

 implement the semantics of the following cache directives:

•

max-age

•

must-revalidate

•

no-store

•

no-cache

•

private

Furthermore, they
directives) that they support in the Cache-Control response header ﬁeld.

 implement other cache directives (including extension cache

SHOULD

The semantics and precedence of cache directives in a targeted ﬁeld are the same as those in
Cache-Control. In particular, no-store and no-cache make max-age inoperative, and
unrecognized extension directives are ignored.

2.3.  Interaction with HTTP Freshness

HTTP caching has a single, end-to-end freshness model deﬁned in
When additional freshness mechanisms are only available to some caches along a request path
(for example, using targeted ﬁelds), their interactions need to be carefully considered. In
particular, a targeted cache might have longer freshness lifetimes available to it than other
caches, causing it to serve responses that appear to be prematurely (or even immediately) stale to
those other caches, negatively impacting cache eﬃciency.

Section 4.2 of [HTTP-CACHING]

.

For example, a response stored by a CDN cache might be served with the following headers:

Age: 1800
Cache-Control: max-age=600
CDN-Cache-Control: max-age=3600

From the CDN's perspective, this response is still fresh after being cached for 30 minutes, while
from the standpoint of other caches, this response is already stale. See
discussion.

[AGE-PENALTY]

 for more

When the targeted cache has a strong coherence mechanism (e.g., the origin server has the ability
to proactively invalidate cached responses), it is often desirable to mitigate these eﬀects. Some
techniques seen in deployments include:

•

Removing the Age header ﬁeld

•

Updating the Date header ﬁeld value to the current time

•

Updating the Expires header ﬁeld value to the current time, plus any Cache-Control: max-age
value

This speciﬁcation does not place any speciﬁc requirements on implementations to mitigate these
eﬀects, but deﬁnitions of targeted ﬁelds can do so.

Ludin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9213

Targeted HTTP Cache Control

June 2022

2.4.  Deﬁning Targeted Fields

A targeted ﬁeld for a particular class of cache can be deﬁned by requesting registration in the
"Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) Field Name Registry" (
http-ﬁelds/>

<https://www.iana.org/assignments/

).

Registration requests can use this document as the speciﬁcation document; in which case, the
Comments ﬁeld should clearly deﬁne the class of caches that the targeted ﬁeld applies to.
Alternatively, if other documentation for the ﬁeld has been created, it can be used as the
speciﬁcation document.

By convention, targeted ﬁelds have the suﬃx "-Cache-Control", e.g., "ExampleCDN-Cache-Control".
However, this suﬃx
convention.

 be used on its own to identify targeted ﬁelds; it is only a

MUST NOT

3.  The CDN-Cache-Control Targeted Field

The CDN-Cache-Control response header ﬁeld is a targeted ﬁeld (Section 2) that allows origin
servers to control the behavior of CDN caches interposed between them and clients separately
from other caches that might handle the response.

It applies to caches that are part of a distributed network that operate on behalf of an origin
server (commonly called a CDN).

CDN caches that use CDN-Cache-Control will typically forward this header so that downstream
CDN caches can use it as well. However, they
MAY
example, when conﬁgured to do so because it is known not to be used downstream).

 remove it when this is undesirable (for

3.1.  Examples

For example, the following header ﬁelds would instruct a CDN cache (i.e., a cache with a target list
of [CDN-Cache-Control]) to consider the response fresh for 600 seconds, other shared caches to
consider the response fresh for 120 seconds, and any remaining caches to consider the response
fresh for 60 seconds:

Cache-Control: max-age=60, s-maxage=120
CDN-Cache-Control: max-age=600

These header ﬁelds would instruct a CDN cache to consider the response fresh for 600 seconds,
while all other caches would be prevented from storing it:

CDN-Cache-Control: max-age=600
Cache-Control: no-store

Ludin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9213

Targeted HTTP Cache Control

June 2022

Because CDN-Cache-Control is not present, this header ﬁeld would prevent all caches from storing
the response:

Cache-Control: no-store

Whereas these would prevent all caches except for CDN caches from storing the response:

Cache-Control: no-store
CDN-Cache-Control: none

(Note that 'none' is not a registered cache directive; it is here to avoid sending a header ﬁeld with
an empty value, which would be ignored.)

4.  IANA Considerations

IANA has registered the following entry in the "Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) Field Name
Registry" deﬁned by

[HTTP]

:

CDN-Cache-Control

Field Name:
Status:
Speciﬁcation Document:
Comments:

permanent

RFC 9213

Cache directives targeted at content delivery networks

5.  Security Considerations

The security considerations of HTTP caching

[HTTP-CACHING]

 apply.

The ability to carry multiple caching policies on a response can result in confusion about how a
response will be cached in diﬀerent systems, potentially resulting in unintentional reuse of
responses with sensitive information. For this reason, care must be exercised.

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

[HTTP]

,

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
97 RFC 9110 DOI 10.17487/RFC9110
rfc9110>
.

,

,

, and
, June 2022,

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP Semantics" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

[HTTP-CACHING]

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.

,

, and

, June 2022,

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP Caching" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

,

98 RFC 9111 DOI 10.17487/RFC9111
.
rfc9111>

,

Ludin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9213

Targeted HTTP Cache Control

June 2022

[RFC2119]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
,
rfc2119>
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
,
.
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

[STRUCTURED-FIELDS]

Nottingham, M.

 and
,
RFC 8941 DOI 10.17487/RFC8941
rfc8941>
.

,
P-H. Kamp "Structured Field Values for HTTP"
, February 2021,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

6.2.  Informative References

[AGE-PENALTY]

Cohen, E.
performance"

H. Kaplan "The age penalty and its eﬀect on cache

,
<https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.5555/1251440.1251447>
.
, March 2001,

 and

Authors' Addresses

Stephen Ludin
Akamai
Email:

 sludin@ludin.org

Mark Nottingham
Fastly
Prahran
Australia
Email:
URI:

 mnot@mnot.net
 https://www.mnot.net/

Yuchen Wu
Cloudﬂare
Email:

 me@yuchenwu.net

Ludin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

