Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9186
Standards Track
January 2022
2070-1721
G. Mirsky
Ericsson

X. Ji
ZTE Corporation

RFC 9186
Fast Failover in Protocol Independent Multicast -
Sparse Mode (PIM-SM) Using Bidirectional
Forwarding Detection (BFD) for Multipoint Networks

Abstract

This document speci’¼ües how Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD) for multipoint networks
can provide sub-second failover for routers that participate in Protocol Independent Multicast -
Sparse Mode (PIM-SM). An extension to the PIM Hello message used to bootstrap a point-to-
multipoint BFD session is also de’¼üned in this document.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

.
https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9186

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identi’¼üed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Mirsky & Ji

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9186

BFD P2MP Use in PIM-SM

January 2022

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

) in e’¼Ćect on the date of publication of this

Table of Contents

1.┬Ā┬ĀIntroduction

1.1.┬Ā┬ĀConventions Used in This Document

1.1.1.┬Ā┬ĀTerminology

1.1.2.┬Ā┬ĀRequirements Language

2.┬Ā┬ĀBFD Discriminator PIM Hello Option

2.1.┬Ā┬ĀUsing P2MP BFD in PIM Router Monitoring

2.2.┬Ā┬ĀP2MP BFD in PIM DR Load Balancing

2.3.┬Ā┬ĀMultipoint BFD Encapsulation

3.┬Ā┬ĀIANA Considerations

4.┬Ā┬ĀSecurity Considerations

5.┬Ā┬ĀReferences

5.1.┬Ā┬ĀNormative References

5.2.┬Ā┬ĀInformative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

Faster convergence in the control plane minimizes the periods of tra’¼āc loss due to the use of
stale routing information, transient routing loops, and other situations that may negatively a’¼Ćect
service data ’¼éow. Faster convergence in the control plane is bene’¼ücial to unicast and multicast
routing protocols.

 is the current speci’¼ücation of the Protocol Independent Multicast - Sparse Mode (PIM-

[RFC7761]
SM) for IPv4 and IPv6 networks. A conforming implementation of PIM-SM elects a Designated
Router (DR) on each PIM-SM interface. When a group of PIM-SM nodes is connected to a shared

Mirsky & Ji

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9186

BFD P2MP Use in PIM-SM

January 2022

media segment, e.g., Ethernet, the node elected as the DR acts on behalf of directly connected
hosts in the context of the PIM-SM protocol. Failure of the DR impacts the quality of the multicast
services it provides to directly connected hosts because the default failure detection interval for
PIM-SM routers is 105 seconds.

[RFC5880]

[RFC5883]

, or multihop

. In some PIM-SM

 was originally de’¼üned to detect a failure of a

[RFC8562]
 for multipoint and multicast networks, which

Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD)
[RFC5881]
point-to-point (P2P) path, single hop
deployments, a P2P BFD can be used to detect a failure and enable faster failover.
extends the BFD base speci’¼ücation
[RFC5880]
matches the deployment scenarios for PIM-SM over a LAN segment. A BFD system in a point-to-
multipoint (P2MP) environment that transmits BFD Control messages using the BFD Demand
mode
detection of PIM-SM router failure compared to PIM-SM without BFD and thus minimizes
multicast service disruption. The monitored PIM-SM router acts as the head and other routers act
as tails of a P2MP BFD session. This document de’¼ünes the monitoring of a PIM-SM router using
P2MP BFD. This document also de’¼ünes the extension to PIM-SM
router to join in the P2MP BFD session over a shared media segment.

 creates less BFD state than the Asynchronous mode. P2MP BFD can enable faster

 to bootstrap a PIM-SM

[RFC7761]

[RFC5880]

1.1.  Conventions Used in This Document

1.1.1.  Terminology

This document uses terminology de’¼üned in
these speci’¼ücations and the terminology used is expected.

[RFC5880] [RFC8562]
,

, and

[RFC7761]

. Familiarity with

1.1.2.  Requirements Language

The key words "
", "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
", "
"
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP┬Ā14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

2.  BFD Discriminator PIM Hello Option

Figure 1 displays the new optional BFD Discriminator PIM Hello Option to bootstrap a tail of the
P2MP BFD session:

     0                   1                   2                   3
     0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |          OptionType           |         OptionLength          |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                       HeadDiscriminator                       |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 1: BFD Discriminator PIM Hello Option

where new ’¼üelds are interpreted as:

Mirsky & Ji

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9186

BFD P2MP Use in PIM-SM

January 2022

OptionType:

39

OptionLength:

MUST

 be set to 4.

HeadDiscriminator:
Option. The value
allocated by the head.

the 4-octet ’¼üeld

MUST

 be included in the BFD Discriminator PIM-SM Hello

MUST NOT

 be zero. It equals the value of My Discriminator

[RFC5880]

If the value of the OptionLength ’¼üeld is not equal to 4, the BFD Discriminator PIM Hello Option is
 stop processing PIM Hello Options. If the value of
considered malformed, and the receiver
MUST
the HeadDiscriminator ’¼üeld equals zero, then the BFD Discriminator PIM Hello Option
 be
 log a noti’¼ücation
considered invalid, and the receiver
regarding the malformed or invalid BFD Discriminator Hello Option under the control of a
throttling logging mechanism.

 ignore it. The receiver

SHOULD

MUST

MUST

2.1.  Using P2MP BFD in PIM Router Monitoring

If the head is no longer serving the function that prompted it to be monitored, then it
including the BFD Discriminator PIM Hello Option in its PIM Hello message, and it
.
down the BFD session following the procedures described in
[RFC8562], Section 5.9

MUST

SHOULD

 cease
 shut

MUST

 create a BFD session of type MultipointHead

The head
router, regardless of its role,
BFD Control tra’¼āc on a shared media segment, an operator should carefully select PIM-SM
routers con’¼ügured as a head of a P2MP BFD session. The head
Discriminator PIM Hello Option in its PIM Hello messages.

[RFC8562]
 become a head of a P2MP BFD session. To control the volume of

. Note that any PIM-SM

 include the BFD

MUST

MAY

A PIM-SM router that is con’¼ügured to monitor the head by using P2MP BFD is referred to
throughout this document as a "tail". When such a tail receives a PIM Hello packet with the BFD
Discriminator PIM Hello Option, the tail
.
de’¼üned in

 create a P2MP BFD session of type MultipointTail, as

[RFC8562]

MAY

The node that includes the BFD Discriminator PIM Hello Option transmits BFD Control packets
periodically. For the tail to correctly demultiplex BFD
Discriminator of the BFD packets
HeadDiscriminator, respectively, of the PIM Hello message. If that is not the case, the tail BFD
node would not be able to monitor the state of the PIM-SM node -- that is, the head of the P2MP
BFD session -- though the regular PIM-SM mechanisms remain fully operational.

 be the same as the source address and the

, the source address and My

[RFC8562]

MUST

If the tail detects a MultipointHead failure
state and follow procedures de’¼üned in
deletion after the neighbor timeout expires.

[RFC8562] MUST

, it

 delete the corresponding neighbor

[RFC7761]

 for the DR and additional neighbor state

SHOULD

If the head ceases to include the BFD Discriminator PIM Hello Option in its PIM Hello message,
the tail
state in any way. Thus, the tail stops using BFD to monitor the head and reverts to the procedures
de’¼üned in

 close the corresponding MultipointTail BFD session without a’¼Ćecting the PIM

[RFC7761]

.

Mirsky & Ji

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9186

BFD P2MP Use in PIM-SM

January 2022

2.2.  P2MP BFD in PIM DR Load Balancing

[RFC8775]
 speci’¼ües the PIM Designated Router Load-Balancing (DRLB) functionality. Any PIM
router that advertises the DR Load-Balancing Capability (DRLB-Cap) Hello Option can become
the head of a P2MP BFD session, as speci’¼üed in Section 2.1. The head router administratively sets
the bfd.SessionState to Up in the MultipointHead session
Designated Router (GDR) Candidate, as speci’¼üed in Sections 5.5 and 5.6 of
is no longer the GDR, then it
Section 5.9
the PIM DR
based on the value of the My Discriminator ’¼üeld and the source IP address. If PIM DR detects a
failure of one of the sessions, it
immediately transmit a new DRLB-List option.

. For each GDR Candidate that includes the BFD Discriminator Option in its PIM Hello,
[RFC8562]
. PIM DR demultiplexes BFD sessions

[RFC8775]
 shut down following the procedures described in

 remove that router from the GDR Candidate list and

 create a MultipointTail session

. If the router
[RFC8562],

 only if it is a Group

[RFC8562]

MUST

MUST

MUST

2.3.  Multipoint BFD Encapsulation

The MultipointHead of a P2MP BFD session when transmitting BFD Control packets:

ŌĆó MUST

 set the TTL or Hop Limit value to 255 (

[RFC5881], Section 5

Control packets that are demultiplexed to the session
or Hop Limit is not equal to 255, and

MUST

). Similarly, all received BFD
 be discarded if the received TTL

ŌĆó MUST

 use the group address ALL-PIM-ROUTERS ("224.0.0.13" for IPv4 and "’¼Ć02::d" for IPv6) as

the destination IP address.

3.  IANA Considerations

IANA has allocated a new OptionType value in the "PIM-Hello Options" registry according to
Table 1:

Value

Length Name

Reference

39

4

BFD Discriminator Option

RFC 9186

Table 1: BFD Discriminator Option Type

4.  Security Considerations

This document de’¼ünes a way to accelerate detection of a failure that a’¼Ćects PIM functionality by
using BFD. The operation of either protocol is not changed.

The security considerations discussed in
[RFC8775]

 apply to this document.

[RFC5880] [RFC5881] [RFC7761] [RFC8562]
,

,

,

, and

Mirsky & Ji

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9186

BFD P2MP Use in PIM-SM

January 2022

5.  References

5.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC5880]

[RFC5881]

[RFC7761]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8562]

[RFC8775]

,

,
Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
rfc2119>
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

 and

Katz, D.
10.17487/RFC5880

D. Ward "Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD)" RFC 5880 DOI

,

,

,

, June 2010,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5880>

D. Ward "Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD) for IPv4 and

 and

Katz, D.
IPv6 (Single Hop)" RFC 5881 DOI 10.17487/RFC5881
.
editor.org/info/rfc5881>

,

,

,

, June 2010,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

,

,
Fenner, B. Handley, M. Holbrook, H. Kouvelas, I. Parekh, R. Zhang, Z.
Zheng "Protocol Independent Multicast - Sparse Mode (PIM-SM): Protocol
,
,
Speci’¼ücation (Revised)" STD 83 RFC 7761 DOI 10.17487/RFC7761
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7761>

,

,

,

, March 2016,

, and

L.

,
,
Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
.
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,
, and
Katz, D. Ward, D. Pallagatti, S., Ed.
Detection (BFD) for Multipoint Networks" RFC 8562 DOI 10.17487/RFC8562
2019,

G. Mirsky, Ed. "Bidirectional Forwarding
, April

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8562>

,
,

,

,

,

Cai, Y. Ou, H. Vallepalli, S. Mishra, M. Venaas, S.
,
,
Router Load Balancing" RFC 8775 DOI 10.17487/RFC8775
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8775>

, and

,

,

A. Green "PIM Designated

,
, April 2020,

<https://

5.2.  Informative References

[RFC5883]

 and

Katz, D.
Paths" RFC 5883 DOI 10.17487/RFC5883
,
info/rfc5883>
.

D. Ward "Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD) for Multihop
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/
, June 2010,

,

,

Acknowledgments

The authors cannot say enough to express their appreciation of the comments and suggestions
that were received from
suggestions by

. The authors also greatly appreciate the comments and

 that improved the clarity of this document.

Alvaro Retana

Stig Venaas

Mirsky & Ji

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9186

BFD P2MP Use in PIM-SM

January 2022

Authors' Addresses

Greg Mirsky
Ericsson
Email:

 gregimirsky@gmail.com

Xiaoli Ji
ZTE Corporation
Yuhuatai District
No. 50 Software Avenue
Nanjing
China
Email:

 ji.xiaoli@zte.com.cn

Mirsky & Ji

Standards Track

Page 7

