Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9214
8287
Standards Track
April 2022
2070-1721
N. Nainar
Cisco Systems, Inc.

C. Pignataro
Cisco Systems, Inc.

M. Aissaoui
Nokia

RFC 9214
OSPFv3 Code Point for MPLS LSP Ping

Abstract

IANA has created "Protocol in the Segment ID Sub-TLV" and "Protocol in Label Stack Sub-TLV of
Downstream Detailed Mapping TLV" registries under the "Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS)
Label Switched Paths (LSPs) Ping Parameters" registry. RFC 8287 deﬁnes the code points for Open
Shortest Path First (OSPF) and Intermediate System to Intermediate System (IS-IS) protocols.

This document speciﬁes the code point to be used in the Segment ID sub-TLV and Downstream
Detailed Mapping (DDMAP) TLV when the Interior Gateway Protocol (IGP) is OSPFv3. This
document also updates RFC 8287 by clarifying that the existing "OSPF" code point is to be used
only to indicate OSPFv2 and by deﬁning the behavior when the Segment ID sub-TLV indicates the
use of IPv6.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9214
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Nainar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9214

OSPFv3 Code Point for MPLS LSP Ping

April 2022

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Requirements Notation

3.  Terminology

4.  OSPFv3 Protocol in Segment ID Sub-TLVs

5.  OSPFv3 Protocol in Downstream Detailed Mapping TLV

6.  Update to RFC 8287 - OSPFv2 Protocol in Segment ID and DDMAP Sub-TLVs

7.  IANA Considerations

7.1.  Protocol in the Segment ID Sub-TLV

7.2.  Protocol in Label Stack Sub-TLV of Downstream Detailed Mapping TLV

8.  Security Considerations

9.  Normative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

IANA has created the "Protocol in the Segment ID Sub-TLV" registry and "Protocol in Label Stack
Sub-TLV of Downstream Detailed Mapping TLV" registries under the "Multiprotocol Label
Switching (MPLS) Label Switched Paths (LSPs) Ping Parameters" registry
[RFC8287]

 deﬁnes the code points for OSPF and IS-IS.

[IANA-MPLS-LSP-PING]

.

[RFC5340]

"OSPF for IPv6"
Families in OSPFv3"
(AFs) in OSPFv3. Accordingly, OSPFv3 may be used to advertise IPv6 and IPv4 preﬁxes.

 describes OSPF version 3 (OSPFv3) to support IPv6. "Support of Address
 describes the mechanism to support multiple address families

[RFC5838]

This document speciﬁes the code point to be used in the Segment ID sub-TLV (Types 34, 35, and 36)
and in the Downstream Detailed Mapping (DDMAP) TLV when the IGP is OSPFv3.

Nainar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9214

OSPFv3 Code Point for MPLS LSP Ping

April 2022

This document also updates "Label Switched Path (LSP) Ping/Traceroute for Segment Routing (SR)
IGP-Preﬁx and IGP-Adjacency Segment Identiﬁers (SIDs) with MPLS Data Planes"
clarifying that the existing "OSPF" code point is to be used only to indicate OSPFv2 and by
deﬁning the behavior when the Segment ID sub-TLV indicates the use of IPv6.

[RFC8287]

 by

2.  Requirements Notation

", "
The key words "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
"
", "
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

3.  Terminology

This document uses the terminology deﬁned in "Segment Routing Architecture"
[RFC8029]
"Detecting Multiprotocol Label Switched (MPLS) Data-Plane Failures"
Switched Path (LSP) Ping/Traceroute for Segment Routing (SR) IGP-Preﬁx and IGP-Adjacency
Segment Identiﬁers (SIDs) with MPLS Data Planes"
be familiar with the same.

[RFC8402]
, and "Label

, and so the readers are expected to

[RFC8287]

,

4.  OSPFv3 Protocol in Segment ID Sub-TLVs

When the protocol ﬁeld of the Segment ID sub-TLV of Type 34 (IPv4 IGP-Preﬁx Segment ID), Type
35 (IPv6 IGP-Preﬁx Segment ID), and Type 36 (IGP-Adjacency Segment ID) is set to 3, the
responder
IGP.

 perform the Forwarding Equivalence Class (FEC) validation using OSPFv3 as the

MUST

MUST NOT

The initiator
 set the protocol ﬁeld of the Segment ID sub-TLV Type 35 and Type 36 as
OSPF (value 1) as OSPFv2 is not compatible with the use of IPv6 addresses indicated by this sub-
TLV.

When the protocol ﬁeld in the received Segment ID sub-TLV Type 35 and Type 36 is OSPF (value 1),
the responder
 treat the protocol value as "Any IGP Protocol" (value 0) according to step 4a of
. This allows the responder to support legacy implementations that use
Section 7.4 of [RFC8287]
value 1 to indicate OSPFv3.

MAY

5.  OSPFv3 Protocol in Downstream Detailed Mapping TLV

The protocol ﬁeld of the DDMAP TLV in an echo reply is set to 7 when OSPFv3 is used to distribute
the label carried in the Downstream Label ﬁeld.

Nainar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9214

OSPFv3 Code Point for MPLS LSP Ping

April 2022

6.  Update to RFC 8287 - OSPFv2 Protocol in Segment ID and
DDMAP Sub-TLVs

Section 5 of [RFC8287]
Segment ID sub-TLV.
Protocol ﬁeld of the DDMAP TLV.

 deﬁnes the code point for OSPF to be used in the Protocol ﬁeld of the
 deﬁnes the code point for OSPF to be used in the

Section 6 of [RFC8287]

This document updates
for OSPFv2.

[RFC8287]

 by specifying that the "OSPF" code points

SHOULD

 be used only

7.  IANA Considerations

7.1.  Protocol in the Segment ID Sub-TLV

IANA has assigned a new code point from the "Protocol in the Segment ID Sub-TLV" registry under
the "Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) Label Switched Paths (LSPs) Ping Parameters" registry
as follows:

Value

Meaning

Reference

3

OSPFv3

RFC 9214

Table 1

IANA has added a note for the existing entry for code point 1 (OSPF): "To be used for OSPFv2
only".

7.2.  Protocol in Label Stack Sub-TLV of Downstream Detailed Mapping TLV

IANA has assigned a new code point for OSPFv3 from "Protocol in Label Stack Sub-TLV of
Downstream Detailed Mapping TLV" registry under the "Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS)
Label Switched Paths (LSPs) Ping Parameters" registry as follows:

Value

Meaning

Reference

7

OSPFv3

RFC 9214

Table 2

IANA has added a note for the existing codepoint 5 (OSPF): "To be used for OSPFv2 only".

8.  Security Considerations

This document updates
See

[RFC8029]

[RFC8287]

 and does not introduce any additional security considerations.

 to see generic security considerations about the MPLS LSP Ping.

Nainar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9214

OSPFv3 Code Point for MPLS LSP Ping

April 2022

9.  Normative References

[IANA-MPLS-LSP-PING]

IANA "Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) Label Switched Paths

,

(LSPs) Ping Parameters" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/mpls-lsp-ping-
parameters>
.

,

[RFC2119]

[RFC5340]

[RFC5838]

[RFC8029]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8287]

[RFC8402]

,

,
Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
.
rfc2119>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

Coltun, R. Ferguson, D. Moy, J.
10.17487/RFC5340

,
, July 2008,

,

, and

A. Lindem "OSPF for IPv6" RFC 5340 DOI

,

,

,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5340>

,

Lindem, A., Ed. Mirtorabi, S. Roy, A. Barnes, M.
Address Families in OSPFv3" RFC 5838 DOI 10.17487/RFC5838
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5838>

, and

,
,

,

,

,
R. Aggarwal "Support of

, April 2010,

<https://

,

Kompella, K. Swallow, G. Pignataro, C., Ed. Kumar, N. Aldrin, S.
,
"Detecting Multiprotocol Label Switched (MPLS) Data-Plane Failures" RFC 8029
DOI 10.17487/RFC8029

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8029>

M. Chen
,

, March 2017,

, and

,

,

,

,

,
,
Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
.
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

Kumar, N., Ed. Pignataro, C., Ed. Swallow, G. Akiya, N. Kini, S.
"Label Switched Path (LSP) Ping/Traceroute for Segment Routing (SR) IGP-Preﬁx
,
and IGP-Adjacency Segment Identiﬁers (SIDs) with MPLS Data Planes" RFC 8287
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8287>
DOI 10.17487/RFC8287

, December 2017,

M. Chen

, and

,

,

,

,

,

,

, and
Filsﬁls, C., Ed. Previdi, S., Ed. Ginsberg, L. Decraene, B. Litkowski, S.
Shakir "Segment Routing Architecture" RFC 8402 DOI 10.17487/RFC8402
2018,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8402>

,

,

,

,

,

,

R.
, July

Acknowledgements

The authors would like to thank
Deborah Brungard Acee Lindem

Les Ginsberg Zafar Ali Loa Andersson Andrew Molotchko
, and

 for their review and suggestions.

,
Adrian Farrel

,

,

,

,

The authors also would like to thank
and

Martin Vigoureux

 for their review comments.

Christer Holmberg Tero Kivinen Matthew Bocci Tom Petch
,

,

,

,

Nainar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9214

OSPFv3 Code Point for MPLS LSP Ping

April 2022

Authors' Addresses

Nagendra Kumar Nainar
Cisco Systems, Inc.
7200-12 Kit Creek Road
Research Triangle Park NC 27709
,
United States of America
Email:

 naikumar@cisco.com

Carlos Pignataro
Cisco Systems, Inc.
7200-11 Kit Creek Road
Research Triangle Park NC 27709
,
United States of America
Email:

 cpignata@cisco.com

Mustapha Aissaoui
Nokia
Canada
Email:

 mustapha.aissaoui@nokia.com

Nainar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

