Stream:
RFC:
Obsoletes:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9636
8536
Standards Track
October 2024
2070-1721
A. Olson

P. Eggert
UCLA

K. Murchison
Fastmail

RFC 9636
The Time Zone Information Format (TZif)

Abstract

This document specifies the Time Zone Information Format (TZif) for representing and
exchanging time zone information, independent of any particular service or protocol. Two media
types for this format are also defined.

This document replaces and obsoletes RFC 8536.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9636
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in effect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Olson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9636

TZif

October 2024

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Conventions Used in This Document

3.  The Time Zone Information Format (TZif)

3.1.  TZif Header

3.2.  TZif Data Block

3.3.  TZif Footer

3.3.1.  All-Year Daylight Saving Time

3.3.2.  TZ String Extension

4.  Interoperability Considerations

5.  Internationalization Considerations

6.  Use with the Time Zone Data Distribution Service

6.1.  Truncating TZif Files

6.2.  Example TZDIST Request for TZif Data

7.  Security Considerations

8.  Privacy Considerations

9.  IANA Considerations

9.1.  application/tzif

9.2.  application/tzif-leap

10. References

10.1.  Normative References

10.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Common Interoperability Issues

Appendix B.  Example TZif Files

B.1.  Version 1 File Representing UTC (with Leap Seconds)

B.2.  Version 2 File Representing Pacific/Honolulu

B.3.  Truncated Version 2 File Representing Pacific/Johnston

B.4.  Truncated Version 3 File Representing Asia/Jerusalem

B.5.  Truncated Version 4 File Representing Europe/London

3

3

5

6

7

11

11

12

12

13

14

14

15

16

16

16

16

17

18

18

19

20

22

22

28

35

39

41

Olson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9636

TZif

October 2024

Appendix C.  Changes from RFC 8536

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

44

44

44

Time zone data typically consists of offsets from universal time (UT), daylight saving transition
rules, one or more local time designations (acronyms or abbreviations), and optional leap-second
adjustments. One such format for conveying this information is
based format used by calendaring and scheduling systems.

iCalendar [RFC5545]

. It is a text-

This document specifies the widely deployed Time Zone Information Format (TZif). It is a binary
format used by most UNIX systems to calculate local time. This format was introduced in the
1980s and has evolved since then into multiple upward-compatible versions. There is a wide
variety of interoperable software capable of generating and reading files in this format

[tz-link]
.

This specification does not define the source of the data assembled into a TZif file. One such
source is the IANA-hosted time zone database

[RFC6557]
.

[RFC8536]

This document obsoletes
fixes while keeping full compatibility with the interchange format of
new version of the format is defined. The changes from
C.

[RFC8536]

, providing editorial improvements, new details, and errata
. Additionally, a

[RFC8536]

 are summarized in Appendix

2.  Conventions Used in This Document

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

The following terms are used in this document (see
[tz-link]

 for more detailed information about civil timekeeping data and practice):

"Time zone and daylight saving time data"

Coordinated Universal Time (UTC):

The basis for civil time since 1960. It is approximately equal

to mean solar time at the prime meridian (0 degrees longitude).

Daylight Saving Time (DST):

The time according to a location's law or practice, when adjusted as

necessary from standard time. The adjustment may be positive or negative, and the amount
of adjustment may vary depending on the date and time; the TZif format even allows the
adjustment to be zero, although this is not common practice.

Olson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9636

TZif

October 2024

International Atomic Time (TAI):

The time standard based on atomic clocks since 1972. It is

equal to UTC but without leap-second adjustments.

Leap Second:

A one-second adjustment to keep UTC close to mean solar time at the prime

meridian (see
month, that is, a month using the Gregorian calendar and the UTC timescale.

). Each inserted or deleted leap second occurs at the end of a UTC

[ITU-R-TF.460]

Leap-Second Correction (LEAPCORR):

The value of "TAI - UTC - 10" for timestamps after the first
leap second, and zero for timestamps before that. The expression "TAI - UTC - 10" comes from
the fact that TAI - UTC was defined to be 10 just prior to the first leap second in 1972, so clocks
with leap seconds have a zero LEAPCORR before the first leap second.

Local Time:

Civil time for a particular location. Its offset from universal time can depend on the

date and time of day.

POSIX Epoch:

1970-01-01 00:00:00 UTC, the basis for absolute timestamps in this document.

Standard Time:
saving time.

The time according to a location's law or practice, unadjusted for daylight

Time Change:

A change to civil timekeeping practice. It occurs when one or more of the

following happen simultaneously:

1.

a change in UT offset

2.

a change in whether daylight saving time is in effect

3.

a change in time zone abbreviation

4.

a leap second (i.e., a change in LEAPCORR)

Time Zone Data:

The

Time Zone Data Distribution Service (TZDIST) [RFC7808]

 defines "Time

zone data" as "data that defines a single time zone, including an identifier, UTC offset values,
DST rules, and other information such as time zone abbreviations". The interchange format
defined in this document is one such form of time zone data.

Transition Time:

The moment of occurrence of a time change that is not a leap second. It is

identified with a signed integer count of UNIX leap time seconds since the POSIX epoch.

Universal Time (UT):

The basis of civil time. This is the principal form of the mean solar time at
the prime meridian (0 degrees longitude) for timestamps before UTC was introduced in 1960
and is UTC for timestamps thereafter. Although UT is sometimes called "UTC" or "GMT" in
other sources, this specification uses the term "UT" to avoid confusion with UTC or with GMT.

UNIX Time:

The time as returned by the time() function provided by the C programming
language (see Section 3 of the "System Interfaces" volume of
). This is an integer
number of seconds since the POSIX epoch, not counting leap seconds. As an extension to
POSIX, negative values represent times before the POSIX epoch, using UT.

[POSIX]

UNIX Leap Time:

UNIX time plus all preceding leap-second corrections. For example, if the first
leap-second record in a TZif file occurs at 1972-06-30 23:59:60 UTC, the UNIX leap time for the
timestamp 1972-07-01 00:00:00 UTC would be 78796801, one greater than the UNIX time for
the same timestamp. Similarly, if the second leap-second record occurs at 1972-12-31 23:59:60

Olson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9636

TZif

October 2024

UTC, it accounts for the first leap second, so the UNIX leap time of 1972-12-31 23:59:60 UTC
would be 94694401, and the UNIX leap time of 1973-01-01 00:00:00 UTC would be 94694402. If
a TZif file specifies no leap-second records, UNIX leap time is equal to UNIX time.

Wall Time:

Another name for local time; short for "wall-clock time".

3.  The Time Zone Information Format (TZif)

version 1 header (Section 3.1)
The Time Zone Information Format begins with a fixed 44-octet
containing a field that specifies the version of the file's format. Readers designed for version N
can read version N+1 files without too much trouble; data specific to version N+1 either appears
after version N data so that earlier version readers can easily ignore later version data they are
not designed for, or it appears as a minor extension to version N that version N readers are likely
to tolerate well.

The version 1 header is followed by a variable-length
containing four-octet (32-bit) transition times and leap-second occurrences. These 32-bit values
are limited to representing time changes from 1901-12-13 20:45:52 through 2038-01-19 03:14:07
UT, and the version 1 header and data block are present only for backward compatibility with
obsolescent readers, as discussed in

"Common Interoperability Issues" (Appendix A)
.

version 1 data block (Section 3.2)

Version 1 files terminate after the version 1 data block. Files from versions 2 and higher extend
the format by appending a second 44-octet version 2+ header, a variable-length version 2+ data
block containing eight-octet (64-bit) transition times and leap-second occurrences, and a
footer (Section 3.3)
variable-length
billion years into the past or future.

. These 64-bit values can represent times approximately 292

NOTE: All multi-octet integer values
octet first, otherwise known as big-endian), with all bits significant. Signed integer values
be represented using two's complement.

 be stored in network octet order format (high-order
MUST

MUST

A TZif file is structured as follows:

Olson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9636

TZif

October 2024

   Version 1        Versions 2+
+-------------+   +-------------+
|  Version 1  |   |  Version 1  |
|   Header    |   |   Header    |
+-------------+   +-------------+
|  Version 1  |   |  Version 1  |
|  Data Block |   |  Data Block |
+-------------+   +-------------+
                  |  Version 2+ |
                  |   Header    |
                  +-------------+
                  |  Version 2+ |
                  |  Data Block |
                  +-------------+
                  |   Footer    |
                  +-------------+

Figure 1: General Format of TZif Files

3.1.  TZif Header

A TZif header is structured as follows (the lengths of multi-octet fields are shown in parentheses):

+---------------+---+
|  magic    (4) |ver|
+---------------+---+---------------------------------------+
|           [unused - reserved for future use] (15)         |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----------+
|  isutcnt  (4) |  isstdcnt (4) |  leapcnt  (4) |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+
|  timecnt  (4) |  typecnt  (4) |  charcnt  (4) |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+

Figure 2: TZif Header

The fields of the header are defined as follows:

magic:

The four-octet

ASCII [RFC20]

 sequence "TZif" (0x54 0x5A 0x69 0x66), which identifies the

file as utilizing the Time Zone Information Format.

ver(sion):

An octet identifying the version of the file's format. The value

MUST

 be one of the

following:

•

NUL (0x00) Version 1 - The file contains only the version 1 header and data block. Version
1 files

 contain a version 2+ header, data block, or footer.

MUST NOT

•

MUST

MUST

'2' (0x32) Version 2 - The file
2+ header and data block, and a footer. The TZ string in the
empty,
defined in Section 8.3 of the "Base Definitions" volume of
POSIX portable character set as ASCII. The leap-second records
the start (Section 6.1)
 contain an expiration time.
MUST NOT

 and

[POSIX]

 contain the version 1 header and data block, a version

footer (Section 3.3)

, if non-

 strictly adhere to the requirements for the TZ environment variable as

MUST

 and
MUST NOT

 encode the

 be

truncated at

Olson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9636

TZif

October 2024

•

'3' (0x33) Version 3 - The file
TZ string in the
(Section 3.3.2)
.

•

'4' (0x34) Version 4 - The file
leap-second records

MAY

MUST

 conform to all version 2 requirements, except that any

footer (Section 3.3) MAY

 use the TZ string extension

described below

MUST

 conform to all version 3 requirements, except that the

 be truncated at the start and

MAY

 contain an expiration time.

isutcnt:

A four-octet unsigned integer specifying the number of UT/local indicators contained in

the data block --

MUST

 either be zero or equal to "typecnt".

isstdcnt:

A four-octet unsigned integer specifying the number of standard/wall indicators

contained in the data block --

MUST

 either be zero or equal to "typecnt".

leapcnt:

A four-octet unsigned integer specifying the number of leap-second records contained

in the data block.

timecnt:

A four-octet unsigned integer specifying the number of transition times contained in

the data block.

typecnt:

A four-octet unsigned integer specifying the number of local time type records

contained in the data block --
 be zero. (Although local time type records convey no
useful information in files that have non-empty TZ strings but no transitions, at least one such
record is nevertheless required because many TZif readers reject files that have zero time
types.)

MUST NOT

charcnt:

A four-octet unsigned integer specifying the total number of octets used by the set of
 be zero. The count includes

time zone designations contained in the data block --
the trailing NUL (0x00) octet at the end of the last time zone designation.

MUST NOT

Although the version 1 and 2+ headers have the same format, magic number, and version fields,
their count fields may differ, because the version 1 data can be a subset of the version 2+ data.

3.2.  TZif Data Block

A TZif data block consists of seven variable-length elements, each of which is a series of items.
The number of items in each series is determined by the corresponding count field in the header.
The total length of each element is calculated by multiplying the number of items by the size of
each item. Therefore, implementations that do not wish to parse or use the version 1 data block
can calculate its total length and skip directly to the header of the version 2+ data block.

In the version 1 data block, time values are 32 bits (TIME_SIZE = 4 octets). In the version 2+ data
block, present only in version 2 and higher files, time values are 64 bits (TIME_SIZE = 8 octets).

The data block is structured as follows (the lengths of multi-octet fields are shown in
parentheses):

Olson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9636

TZif

October 2024

+---------------------------------------------------------+
|  transition times          (timecnt x TIME_SIZE)        |
+---------------------------------------------------------+
|  transition types          (timecnt)                    |
+---------------------------------------------------------+
|  local time type records   (typecnt x 6)                |
+---------------------------------------------------------+
|  time zone designations    (charcnt)                    |
+---------------------------------------------------------+
|  leap-second records       (leapcnt x (TIME_SIZE + 4))  |
+---------------------------------------------------------+
|  standard/wall indicators  (isstdcnt)                   |
+---------------------------------------------------------+
|  UT/local indicators       (isutcnt)                    |
+---------------------------------------------------------+

Figure 3: TZif Data Block

The elements of the data block are defined as follows:

transition times:

A series of four- or eight-octet UNIX leap time values sorted in strictly

ascending order. Each value is used as a transition time at which the rules for computing local
time may change. The number of time values is specified by the "timecnt" field in the header.
 be at least -259. (-259 is the greatest negated power of 2 that predates
Each time value
the Big Bang, and avoiding earlier timestamps works around known TZif reader bugs relating
to outlandishly negative timestamps.)

SHOULD

transition types:

A series of one-octet unsigned integers specifying the type of local time of the

corresponding transition time. These values serve as zero-based indices into the array of local
time type records. The number of type indices is specified by the "timecnt" field in the header.
Each type index

 be in the range [0, "typecnt" - 1].

MUST

local time type records:

A series of six-octet records specifying a local time type. The number of
records is specified by the "typecnt" field in the header. Each record has the following format
(the lengths of multi-octet fields are shown in parentheses):

+---------------+---+---+
|  utoff (4)    |dst|idx|
+---------------+---+---+

utoff:

A four-octet signed integer specifying the number of seconds to be added to UT in

order to determine local time. The value
[-89999, 93599] (i.e., its value
Avoiding -231 allows 32-bit clients to negate the value without overflow. Restricting it to
[-89999, 93599] allows easy support by implementations that already support the POSIX-
required range [-24:59:59, 25:59:59].

 be more than -25 hours and less than 26 hours).

 be in the range

MUST NOT

SHOULD

SHOULD

 be -231 and

Olson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9636

TZif

October 2024

(is)dst:

A one-octet value indicating whether local time should be considered Daylight Saving

Time (DST). The value
DST. A value of zero (0) indicates that this time type is standard time.

 be 0 or 1. A value of one (1) indicates that this type of time is

MUST

(desig)idx:

A one-octet unsigned integer specifying a zero-based index into the series of time
MUST

zone designation octets, thereby selecting a particular designation string. Each index
be in the range [0, "charcnt" - 1]; it designates the NUL‑terminated string of octets starting
at position "idx" in the time zone designations. (This string
MUST
is "-00", the time type is a placeholder indicating that local time is unspecified.

 exist in the time zone designations at or after position "idx". If the designation string

 be empty.) A NUL octet

MAY

time zone designations:

A series of octets constituting an array of NUL‑terminated (0x00) time
zone designation strings. The total number of octets is specified by the "charcnt" field in the
header. Two designations
 overlap if one is a suffix of the other. The character encoding
of time zone designation strings is not specified; however, see Section 4 of this document.

MAY

leap-second records:

A series of eight- or twelve-octet records specifying the corrections that

need to be applied to UTC in order to determine TAI, also known as the leap-second table. The
records are sorted by the occurrence time in strictly ascending order. The number of records
is specified by the "leapcnt" field in the header. Each record has one of the following
structures (the lengths of multi-octet fields are shown in parentheses):

Version 1 Data Block:

+---------------+---------------+
|  occur (4)    |  corr (4)     |
+---------------+---------------+

version 2+ Data Block:

+---------------+---------------+---------------+
|  occur (8)                    |  corr (4)     |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+

occur(rence):

A four- or eight-octet UNIX leap time value specifying the time at which a leap-

second correction occurs or at which the leap-second table expires. The first value, if
 occur at the end of a UTC
present,
month.

 be non-negative, and each leap second

MUST

MUST

corr(ection):

A four-octet signed integer specifying the value of LEAPCORR on or after the

occurrence. If "leapcnt" is zero, LEAPCORR is zero for all timestamps. If "leapcnt" is
nonzero, for timestamps before the first occurrence time, LEAPCORR is zero if the first
correction is one (1) or minus one (-1) and is unspecified otherwise (which can happen
only in files

truncated at the start (Section 6.1)

).

The first leap second is a positive leap second if and only if its correction is positive. Each
correction after the first
 differ from the previous correction by either one (1) for a
positive leap second or minus one (-1) for a negative leap second, except that in version 4

MUST

Olson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9636

TZif

October 2024

files with two or more leap-second records, the correction value of the last two records
MAY
leap-second table.

 be the same, with the occurrence of last record indicating the expiration time of the

The leap-second table expiration time is the time at which the table no longer records the
presence or absence of future leap-second corrections, and post-expiration timestamps
cannot be accurately calculated. For example, a leap-second table published in January,
which predicts the presence or absence of a leap second at June's end, might expire in mid-
December because it is not known when the next leap second will occur.

If leap seconds become permanently discontinued, as requested by the
on Weights and Measures [CGPM-2022-R4]
discontinuation time
future.

, leap-second tables published after the
 expire, since they will not be updated in the foreseeable

General Conference

SHOULD NOT

standard/wall indicators:

A series of one-octet values indicating whether the transition times

MUST

associated with local time types were specified as standard time or wall-clock time. Each
value
 be 0 or 1. A value of one (1) indicates standard time. The value
(1) if the corresponding UT/local indicator is set to one (1). A value of zero (0) indicates wall
time. The number of values is specified by the "isstdcnt" field in the header. If "isstdcnt" is
zero (0), all transition times associated with local time types are assumed to be specified as
wall time.

MUST

 be set to one

UT/local indicators:

A series of one-octet values indicating whether the transition times

associated with local time types were specified as UT or local time. Each value
A value of one (1) indicates UT, and the corresponding standard/wall indicator
set to one (1). A value of zero (0) indicates local time. The number of values is specified by the
"isutcnt" field in the header. If "isutcnt" is zero (0), all transition times associated with local
time types are assumed to be specified as local time.

 be 0 or 1.
 also be

MUST

MUST

The type corresponding to a transition time specifies local time for timestamps starting at the
given transition time and continuing up to, but not including, the next transition time. Local time
for timestamps before the first transition is specified by the first time type (time type 0). Local
time for timestamps on or after the last transition is specified by the TZ string in the
(Section 3.3)
local time for all timestamps is specified by the TZ string in the footer if present and non-empty;
otherwise, it is specified by time type 0. A time type with a designation string of "-00" represents
an unspecified local time.

 if present and non-empty; otherwise, it is unspecified. If there are no transitions,

footer

A given pair of standard/wall and UT/local indicators is used to designate whether the
corresponding transition time was specified as UT, standard time, or wall-clock time. There are
only three combinations of the two indicators, given that the standard/wall value
 be one
(1) if the UT/local value is one (1). This information can be useful if the transition times in a TZif
file need to be transformed into transitions appropriate for another time zone (e.g., when
calculating transition times for a simple POSIX-like TZ string such as "AKST9AKDT").

MUST

Olson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9636

TZif

October 2024

In order to eliminate unused space in a TZif file, every nonzero local time type index
appear at least once in the transition type array. Likewise, every octet in the time zone
designations array

 be used by at least one time type record.

SHOULD

SHOULD

3.3.  TZif Footer

The TZif footer is structured as follows (the lengths of multi-octet fields are shown in
parentheses):

+---+--------------------+---+
| NL|  TZ string (0...)  |NL |
+---+--------------------+---+

Figure 4: TZif Footer

The elements of the footer are defined as follows:

NL:

An ASCII new line character (0x0A).

TZ string:

A rule for computing local time changes after the last transition time stored in the

version 2+ data block. The string is either empty or uses the expanded format of the "TZ"
environment variable as defined in Section 8.3 of the "Base Definitions" volume of
with ASCII encoding, possibly utilizing the
version 3 and higher files. If the string is empty, the corresponding information is not
available. If the string is non-empty and one or more transitions appear in the version 2+
data, the string
evaluating the TZ string at the time of the last transition should yield the same time type as
was specified in the last transition. The string
NUL‑terminated, and it

 be consistent with the last version 2+ transition. In other words,

extension described below (Section 3.3.2)

 begin with the ":" (colon) character.

 contain NUL octets or be

SHOULD NOT

MUST NOT

[POSIX]

MUST

 in

The TZif footer is present only in version 2 and higher files, as the obsolescent version 1 format
was designed before the need for a footer was apparent.

3.3.1.  All-Year Daylight Saving Time

DST is considered to be in effect all year if its UT offset is less than (i.e., west of) that of standard
time, and it starts January 1 at 00:00 and ends December 31 at 24:00 minus the difference
between standard and daylight saving time, leaving no room for standard time in the calendar.
[POSIX]

 implies but does not explicitly state this, so it is spelled out here for clarity.

Example: XXX3EDT4,0/0,J365/23

This represents a time zone that is perpetually 4 hours west of UT and is abbreviated "EDT".
The "XXX" is ignored.

Olson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9636

TZif

October 2024

3.3.2.  TZ String Extension

The TZ string in a version 3 or higher TZif file
MAY
strings. This extension is described using the terminology of Section 8.3 of the "Base Definitions"
volume of

 use the following extension to POSIX TZ

[POSIX]
.

The hours part of the transition times may be signed and range from -167 through 167 (-167 <=
hh <= 167) instead of the POSIX-required unsigned values from 0 through 24.

Example: <-03>3<-02>,M3.5.0/-2,M10.5.0/-1

This represents a time zone that observes daylight saving time from 22:00 on the day before
March's last Sunday until 23:00 on the day before October's last Sunday. Standard time is 3
hours west of UT and is abbreviated "-03"; daylight saving time is 2 hours west of UT and is
abbreviated "-02".

A TZif file that uses the above extension
MUST
future version of POSIX adopts this extension.

 be designated as version 3 (or higher), even if a

4.  Interoperability Considerations

The following practices help ensure the interoperability of TZif applications.

•

Version 1 files are considered a legacy format and
support transition times after the year 2038.

SHOULD NOT

 be generated, as they do not

•

Readers that understand only version 1
calculated end of the version 1 data block.

MUST

 ignore any data that extends beyond the

•

SHOULD

Other than version 1, writers
data. This helps interoperability with older readers. For example, a writer
a version 4 file only if its leap-second table either expires or is truncated at the start.
Likewise, a writer not generating a version 4 file
TZ string extension is necessary to accurately model transition times.

 generate the lowest version number needed by a file's
 generate

 generate a version 3 file only if the

SHOULD

SHOULD

•

To save space, writers of version 2+ files
all counts zero except that "typecnt" and "charcnt" are both one (1). If this is done,
obsolescent version-1-only readers
time zone abbreviations.

 interpret these files as lacking time changes and

 output a placeholder version 1 data block with

MUST

MAY

•

Unless the version 1 data block is a placeholder, the sequence of timestamps defined by the
version 1 header and data block
defined by the version 2+ header and data block and by the footer. This guideline helps
obsolescent version 1 readers agree with current readers about timestamps within the
contiguous sub-sequence.

 be a contiguous sub-sequence of the timestamps

SHOULD

•

When a TZif file contains a leap-second table expiration time, TZif readers
 either
refuse to process post-expiration timestamps or process them as if the expiration time did
not exist (possibly with an error indication). This lessens disagreement among
implementations when processing far-future timestamps that cannot yet be handled exactly.

SHOULD

Olson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9636

TZif

October 2024

•

Time zone designations
characters from the set of alphanumerics, "-", and "+". This is compatible with POSIX
requirements for time zone abbreviations.

 consist of at least three (3) and no more than six (6) ASCII

MUST

•

A reader that encounters a time zone designation containing bytes other than ASCII
 act if the designation instead contained a signed
alphanumerics, "-", and "+"
numeric string derived from the UT offset, for example, "-10" and "+0530" to indicate 10
hours west and 5.5 hours east of Greenwich, respectively.

SHOULD

•

When reading a version 2 or higher file, readers
data block except for the purpose of skipping over them. This improves compatibility among
readers of non-conforming files where version 2+ data is not upward compatible with
version 1.

 ignore the version 1 header and

SHOULD

•

Readers
they all fit within the actual file size, as part of a validity check for the file.

 calculate the total lengths of the headers and data blocks and check that

SHOULD

•

When a TZif file is used in a MIME message entity, it
following media types:

SHOULD

 be indicated by one of the

◦ "application/tzif-leap" (Section 9.2)
 to indicate that leap-second records are included in the
TZif data as necessary (none are necessary if the file is truncated to a range that precedes
the first leap second).
◦ "application/tzif" (Section 9.1)
TZif data; "leapcnt" in the header(s)

 to indicate that leap-second records are not included in the

 be zero (0).

MUST

•

Common interoperability issues and possible workarounds are described in Appendix A.

5.  Internationalization Considerations

TZif time zone designations contain only ASCII alphanumerics, "-", and "+". Commonly used
designations include numeric strings like "-10" and "+0530" for UT offsets and English language
abbreviations like "CEST" for Central European Summer Time and "GMT" for Greenwich Mean
Time. It is the TZif reader's responsibility to substitute different abbreviations when needed for
internationalization, such as substituting "HNC" (l'heure normale du Centre) for "CST" (Central
Standard Time) in French-speaking regions. This substitution can be problematic, as
abbreviations can be ambiguous; for example, "CST" commonly stands for China Standard Time
and Cuba Standard Time as well as Central Standard Time. One approach for addressing this
issue can be found in the time zone charts of the
(CLDR) Project [CLDR]
.

Unicode Common Locale Data Repository

Although the original TZif design allowed for any nonzero octets in time zone designations, and it
was common practice until the mid-1990s for designations to contain ASCII spaces, designations
are now limited to ASCII alphanumerics, "-", and "+" to avoid confusion and to encourage
portability to a wide variety of locales.

Olson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9636

TZif

October 2024

6.  Use with the Time Zone Data Distribution Service

Time Zone Data Distribution Service (TZDIST) [RFC7808]

The
secure, and fast delivery of time zone data and leap-second rules to client systems such as
calendaring and scheduling applications or operating systems.

 is a service that allows reliable,

MAY

MUST

 supply time zone data to clients in the Time Zone Information Format.

 indicate that it supports this format by including the media type

A TZDIST service
Such a service
"application/tzif" (Section 9.1)
service
response if it is able to generate TZif files containing leap-second records. A TZDIST service
NOT

 advertise the "application/tzif-leap" media type without also advertising "application/tzif".

). A TZDIST
 in its "capabilities"

"application/tzif-leap" (Section 9.2)

 in its "capabilities" response (

 also include the media type

Section 5.1 of [RFC7808]

MAY

MUST

TZDIST clients
) to indicate
their preference to receive data in the "application/tzif" and/or "application/tzif-leap" formats.

 use the HTTP "Accept" header field (

[RFC9110], Section 12.5.1

MUST

6.1.  Truncating TZif Files

Section 3.9 of [RFC7808]

 truncate time zone transition
As described in
data. A truncated TZif file is valid from its first and up to, but not including, its last version 2+
transition time, if present.

, a TZDIST service

MAY

When truncating the start of a TZif file, the service
transition time that is the start point of the truncation range. As with untruncated TZif files, time
type 0 indicates local time immediately before the start point, and the time type of the first
transition indicates local time thereafter. Time type 0
time is unspecified, so that the reader is unambiguously informed of truncation at the start.

 supply in the version 2+ data a first

 be a placeholder indicating that local

MUST

MUST

When truncating the start of a TZif file containing leap-second records, the service
leap-second records governing timestamps within the truncation range, even if the first such
record precedes the start point of the truncation range. If the truncated leap-second table is non-
empty, its first record
second.

 have a positive correction if and only if it represents a positive leap

 keep all

MUST

MUST

When truncating the end of a TZif file, the service
transition time that is the end point of the truncation range and
 supply an empty TZ string.
As with untruncated TZif files with empty TZ strings, a truncated TZif file does not indicate local
time after the last transition. To this end, the time type of the last transition
placeholder indicating that local time is unspecified.

 supply in the version 2+ data a last

MUST

MUST

MUST

 be a

All represented information that falls inside the truncation range
represented by a corresponding untruncated TZif file.

MUST

 be the same as that

TZDIST clients
outside the truncation time range.

SHOULD NOT

 use a truncated TZif file (as described above) to interpret timestamps

Olson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9636

TZif

October 2024

6.2.  Example TZDIST Request for TZif Data

In this example, the client checks the server for the available formats and then requests that the
time zone with a specific time zone identifier be returned in Time Zone Information Format.

This example presumes that the time zone context path has been discovered (see
Section 4.2.1

) to be "/tzdist".

[RFC7808],

>> Request <<

GET /tzdist/capabilities HTTP/1.1
Host: tz.example.com

>> Response <<

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 01 Jun 2018 14:52:23 GMT
Content-Type: application/json
Content-Length: xxxx

{
  "version": 1,

  "info": {
    "primary-source": "IANA:2018e",
    "formats": [
      "text/calendar",
      "application/tzif",
      "application/tzif-leap"
    ],
...
  },
...
}

>> Request <<

GET /tzdist/zones/America%2FNew_York HTTP/1.1
Host: tz.example.com
Accept: application/tzif

>> Response <<

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 01 Jun 2018 14:52:24 GMT
Content-Type: application/tzif
Content-Length: xxxx
ETag: "123456789-000-111"

TZif2...[binary data without leap-second records]...
EST5EDT,M3.2.0,M11.1.0

Olson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9636

TZif

October 2024

7.  Security Considerations

The Time Zone Information Format contains no executable code, and it does not define any
extensible areas that could be used to store such code.

TZif contains counted arrays of data elements. All counts should be checked when processing
TZif objects, to guard against references past the end of the object.

TZif provides no confidentiality or integrity protection. Time zone information is normally public
and does not call for confidentiality protection. Since time zone information is used in many
critical applications, integrity protection may be required and must be provided externally.

Section 8 of [RFC7808]

As discussed in
communication channel could result in tampered data, harming calendaring and scheduling
operations. As such, TZif data transmitted over a public communications channel
protected with a security layer such as that provided by
[RFC8446]
.

MUST
Transport Layer Security (TLS)

, transmission of time zone data over an insecure

 be

8.  Privacy Considerations

The Time Zone Information Format contains publicly available data, and it does not define any
extensible areas that could be used to store private data.

Section 9 of [RFC7808]

As discussed in
communications channel could leak the past, current, or future location of a device or user. As
such, TZif data transmitted over a public communications channel
confidentiality layer such as that provided by

, transmission of time zone data over an insecure

Transport Layer Security (TLS) [RFC8446]
.

 be protected with a

MUST

9.  IANA Considerations

IANA has updated the "Media Types" registry as follows.

This document defines two media types
Zone Information Format.

[RFC6838]

 for the exchange of data utilizing the Time

9.1.  application/tzif

Type name:

application

Subtype name:

tzif

Required parameters:

N/A

Optional parameters:

N/A

Encoding considerations:

binary

Olson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9636

TZif

October 2024

Security considerations:

See Section 7 of RFC 9636.

Interoperability considerations:

See Section 4 of RFC 9636.

Published specification:

RFC 9636.

Applications that use this media type:

This media type is designed for widespread use by

applications that need to use or exchange time zone information relative to UNIX time, such
as the
Time
Zone Distribution Service [RFC7808]

Time Zone Information Compiler (zic) [ZIC]

 can directly use this media type.

GNU C Library [GNU-C]

 and the

. The

Fragment identifier considerations:

N/A

Additional information:

Magic number(s):
File extensions(s):
Macintosh file type code(s):

N/A

The first 4 octets are 0x54, 0x5A, 0x69, 0x66
N/A

Person & email address to contact for further information:

Time Zone Database mailing list

<tz@iana.org>

Intended usage:

COMMON

Restrictions on usage:

N/A

Author:

See the "Authors' Addresses" section of RFC 9636.

Change controller:

IETF

9.2.  application/tzif-leap

Type name:

application

Subtype name:

tzif-leap

Required parameters:

none

Optional parameters:

none

Encoding considerations:

binary

Security considerations:

See Section 7 of RFC 9636.

Interoperability considerations:

See Section 4 of RFC 9636.

Published specification:

RFC 9636.

Applications that use this media type:

This media type is designed for widespread use by

applications that need to use or exchange time zone information relative to UNIX leap time,
such as the
. The
Time Zone Distribution Service [RFC7808]

 and the
 can directly use this media type.

Time Zone Information Compiler (zic) [ZIC]

GNU C Library [GNU-C]

Olson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9636

TZif

October 2024

Fragment identifier considerations:

N/A

Additional information:

Magic number(s):
File extensions(s):
Macintosh file type code(s):

N/A

The first 4 octets are 0x54, 0x5A, 0x69, 0x66
N/A

Person & email address to contact for further information:

Time Zone Database mailing list

<tz@iana.org>

Intended usage:

COMMON

Restrictions on usage:

N/A

Author:

See the "Authors' Addresses" section of RFC 9636.

Change controller:

IETF

10.  References

10.1.  Normative References

[GNU-C]

[ITU-R-TF.460]

[POSIX]

[RFC20]

[RFC2119]

[RFC6838]

[RFC7808]

Free Software Foundation "The GNU C Library" <https://www.gnu.org/software/
libc/>

,

.

,

International Telecommunication Union "Standard-frequency and time-signal
,
emissions" ITU-R Recommendation TF.460
<https://www.itu.int/
,
rec/R-REC-TF.460/en>
.

, February 2002,

,

IEEE "IEEE Standard for Information Technology--Portable Operating System
Interface (POSIX(TM)) Base Specifications, Issue 7" POSIX.1-2017 IEEE Std
1003.1-2017 DOI 10.1109/IEEESTD.2018.8277153
pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/>
.

, January 2018,

<https://

,

,

,

Cerf, V. "ASCII format for network interchange" STD 80 RFC 20 DOI 10.17487/
,
RFC0020

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc20>

, October 1969,

,
.

,

,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Freed, N. Klensin, J.
,
Procedures" BCP 13 RFC 6838 DOI 10.17487/RFC6838
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6838>

, and
,

,

.

,

T. Hansen "Media Type Specifications and Registration

,

, January 2013,

<https://

Douglass, M.
 and
10.17487/RFC7808

C. Daboo "Time Zone Data Distribution Service" RFC 7808 DOI
, March 2016,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7808>

,

,

,

.

Olson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9636

TZif

October 2024

[RFC8174]

[RFC9110]

[ZIC]

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
97 RFC 9110 DOI 10.17487/RFC9110
rfc9110>

,

,

.

, and
, June 2022,

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP Semantics" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

Kerrisk, M. "zic(8) - Linux manual page" <http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/
man8/zic.8.html>

,

,

.

10.2.  Informative References

[CGPM-2022-R4]

[CLDR]

[EGGERT-TZ]

[Err6426]

[Err6435]

[Err6757]

[Err7681]

[RFC5545]

[RFC6557]

[RFC8446]

[RFC8536]

[tz-link]

General Conference on Weights and Measures "Resolution 4 of the 27th CGPM
<https://www.bipm.org/

,
, November 2022,

,

(2022)" DOI 10.59161/CGPM2022RES4E
en/cgpm-2022/resolution-4>

.

Unicode, Inc. "Unicode CLDR Project" <https://cldr.unicode.org/>

,

,

.

"History for tz" commit b5318b5
,
commits/main/tzfile.5>

.

, June 2024,

<https://github.com/eggert/tz/

RFC Errata "Erratum ID 6426" RFC 8536 <https://www.rfc-editor.org/errata/
eid6426>

,

,

,

.

RFC Errata "Erratum ID 6435" RFC 8536 <https://www.rfc-editor.org/errata/
eid6435>

,

,

,

.

RFC Errata "Erratum ID 6757" RFC 8536 <https://www.rfc-editor.org/errata/
eid6757>

,

,

,

.

RFC Errata "Erratum ID 7681" RFC 8536 <https://www.rfc-editor.org/errata/
eid7681>

,

,

,

.

Desruisseaux, B., Ed. "Internet Calendaring and Scheduling Core Object
Specification (iCalendar)" RFC 5545 DOI 10.17487/RFC5545
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5545>

.

,

,

, September 2009,

 and
,

Lear, E.
,
BCP 175 RFC 6557 DOI 10.17487/RFC6557
editor.org/info/rfc6557>

P. Eggert "Procedures for Maintaining the Time Zone Database"
<https://www.rfc-

, February 2012,

,

.

,

Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
,
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>

, August 2018,

,

.

Olson, A. Eggert, P.
,
(TZif)" RFC 8536 DOI 10.17487/RFC8536
editor.org/info/rfc8536>

, and

,

,

.

K. Murchison "The Time Zone Information Format

,

, February 2019,

<https://www.rfc-

Eggert, P.
www.iana.org/time-zones/repository/tz-link.html>

 and

A. Olson "Time zone and daylight saving time data" <https://

,

,

.

Olson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9636

TZif

October 2024

Appendix A.  Common Interoperability Issues

This section documents common problems in implementing this specification. Most of these are
problems in generating TZif files for use by readers conforming to
specification [EGGERT-TZ]

. The goals of this section are to help:

predecessors of this

1.

TZif writers output files that avoid common pitfalls in older or buggy TZif readers,

2.

TZif readers avoid common pitfalls when reading files generated by future TZif writers, and

3.

any future specification authors see what sort of problems arise when the TZif format is
changed.

When new versions of the TZif format have been defined, a design goal has been that a reader
can successfully use a TZif file even if the file is of a later TZif version than what the reader was
designed for. When complete compatibility was not achieved, an attempt was made to limit
glitches to rarely used timestamps and allow simple partial workarounds in writers designed to
generate newer-version data useful even for older-version readers. This section attempts to
document these compatibility issues and workarounds as well as other common bugs in readers.

Interoperability problems with TZif include the following:

•

Some readers examine only version 1 data. As a partial workaround, a writer can output as
much version 1 data as possible. However, a reader should ignore version 1 data and use
version 2+ data, even if the reader's timestamps have only 32 bits.

•

Some readers designed for version 2 might mishandle timestamps after a version 3 or higher
file's last transition, because they cannot parse extensions to POSIX in the TZ-like string. As a
partial workaround, a writer can output more transitions than necessary, so that only far-
future timestamps are mishandled by version 2 readers.

•

Some readers designed for version 2 do not support permanent daylight saving time with
transitions after 24:00 -- e.g., a TZ string "EST5EDT,0/0,J365/25" denoting permanent Eastern
Daylight Time (-04). As a workaround, a writer can substitute standard time for two time
zones east, e.g., "XXX3EDT4,0/0,J365/23" for a time zone with a never-used standard time
(XXX, -03) and negative daylight saving time (EDT, -04) all year. Alternatively, as a partial
workaround, a writer can substitute standard time for the next time zone east -- e.g., "AST4"
for permanent Atlantic Standard Time (-04).

•

Some readers designed for version 2 or 3 and that require strict conformance to
reject version 4 files whose leap-second tables are truncated at the start or end in expiration
times.

[RFC8536]

•

Some readers ignore the footer and instead predict future timestamps from the time type of
the last transition. As a partial workaround, a writer can output more transitions than
necessary.

•

Some readers do not use time type 0 for timestamps before the first transition, in that they
infer a time type using a heuristic that does not always select time type 0. As a partial
workaround, a writer can output a placeholder (no-op) first transition at an early time.

Olson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9636

TZif

October 2024

•
Some readers mishandle timestamps before the first transition that has a timestamp that is
not less than -231. Readers that support only 32-bit timestamps are likely to be more prone to
this problem, for example, when they process 64-bit transitions, only some of which are
representable in 32 bits. As a partial workaround, a writer can output a placeholder
transition at timestamp -231.
•
Some readers mishandle a transition if its timestamp has the minimum possible signed 64-
bit value. Timestamps less than -259 are not recommended.
•
Some readers mishandle POSIX-style TZ strings that contain "<" or ">". As a partial
workaround, a writer can avoid using "<" or ">" for time zone abbreviations containing only
alphabetic characters.

•

Many readers mishandle time zone abbreviations that contain non-ASCII characters. These
characters are not recommended.

•

Some readers may mishandle time zone abbreviations that contain fewer than 3 or more
than 6 characters or that contain ASCII characters other than alphanumerics, "-", and "+".
These abbreviations are not recommended.

•

This specification does not dictate how readers should deal with timestamps when local time
is unspecified. Common practice is for readers to report UT with designation string "-00". A
reader could return an error indication instead.

•

Some readers mishandle TZif files that specify daylight saving time UT offsets that are less
than the UT offsets for the corresponding standard time. These readers do not support
locations like Ireland, which uses the equivalent of the POSIX TZ string
"IST-1GMT0,M10.5.0,M3.5.0/1", observing standard time (IST, +01) in summer and daylight
saving time (GMT, +00) in winter. As a partial workaround, a writer can output data for the
equivalent of the POSIX TZ string "GMT0IST,M3.5.0/1,M10.5.0", thus swapping standard and
daylight saving time. Although this workaround misidentifies which part of the year uses
daylight saving time, it records UT offsets and time zone abbreviations correctly.

•

Some readers generate ambiguous timestamps for positive leap seconds that occur when the
UTC offset is not a multiple of 60 seconds. For example, with UTC offset +01:23:45 and a
positive leap second 78796801 (1972-06-30 23:59:60 UTC), some readers will map both
78796800 and 78796801 to 01:23:45 local time the next day instead of mapping the latter to
01:23:46, and they will map 78796815 to 01:23:59 instead of to 01:23:60. This has not yet been
a practical problem, since no civil authority has observed such UTC offsets since leap seconds
were introduced in 1972.

Some interoperability problems are reader bugs that are listed here mostly as warnings to
developers of readers.

•

Some readers do not support negative timestamps. Developers of distributed applications
should keep this in mind if they need to deal with pre-1970 data.

•

Some readers mishandle timestamps before the first transition that has a non-negative
timestamp. Readers that do not support negative timestamps are likely to be more prone to
this problem.

•

Some readers mishandle time zone abbreviations like "-08" that contain "+", "-", or digits.

Olson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9636

TZif

October 2024

•

Some readers mishandle UT offsets that are out of the conventional range of -12 through +12
hours and so do not support locations like Kiritimati that are outside this range.

•

Some readers mishandle UT offsets in the range [-3599, -1] seconds from UT because they
integer-divide the offset by 3600 to get 0 and then display the hour part as "+00".

•

Some readers mishandle UT offsets that are not a multiple of one hour, 15 minutes, or 1
minute.

Appendix B.  Example TZif Files

The following sections contain annotated hexadecimal dumps of example TZif files.

These examples should only be considered informative. Although the example data entries are
current as of the publication date of this document, the data will likely change in the future as
leap seconds are added and changes are made to civil time.

B.1.  Version 1 File Representing UTC (with Leap Seconds)

File
Offset

Hexadecimal Octets

Record Name / Field
Name

Field Value

000

004

005

020

024

028

032

036

040

044

048

049

54 5a 69 66

00

00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00
00 00 00 00 00 00

00 00 00 01

00 00 00 01

00 00 00 1b

00 00 00 00

00 00 00 01

00 00 00 04

00 00 00 00

00

00

magic

version

isutcnt

isstdcnt

leapcnt

timecnt

typecnt

charcnt

"TZif"

0 (1)

1

1

27

0

1

4

localtimetype[0]

utoff

isdst

desigidx

0 (+00:00)

0 (no)

0

Olson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9636

TZif

October 2024

File
Offset

Hexadecimal Octets

Record Name / Field
Name

Field Value

050

55 54 43 00

designations[0]

"UTC\0"

leapsecond[0]

054

04 b2 58 00

occurrence

78796800
(1972-06-30T23:59:60Z)

058

00 00 00 01

correction

1

leapsecond[1]

062

05 a4 ec 01

occurrence

94694401
(1972-12-31T23:59:60Z)

066

00 00 00 02

correction

2

leapsecond[2]

070

07 86 1f 82

occurrence

126230402
(1973-12-31T23:59:60Z)

074

00 00 00 03

correction

3

leapsecond[3]

078

09 67 53 03

occurrence

157766403
(1974-12-31T23:59:60Z)

082

00 00 00 04

correction

4

leapsecond[4]

086

0b 48 86 84

occurrence

189302404
(1975-12-31T23:59:60Z)

090

00 00 00 05

correction

5

094

0d 2b 0b 85

occurrence

220924805
(1976-12-31T23:59:60Z)

leapsecond[5]

Olson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9636

TZif

October 2024

File
Offset

Hexadecimal Octets

Record Name / Field
Name

Field Value

098

00 00 00 06

correction

6

leapsecond[6]

102

0f 0c 3f 06

occurrence

252460806
(1977-12-31T23:59:60Z)

106

00 00 00 07

correction

7

leapsecond[7]

110

10 ed 72 87

occurrence

283996807
(1978-12-31T23:59:60Z)

114

00 00 00 08

correction

8

leapsecond[8]

118

12 ce a6 08

occurrence

315532808
(1979-12-31T23:59:60Z)

122

00 00 00 09

correction

9

leapsecond[9]

126

15 9f ca 89

occurrence

362793609
(1981-06-30T23:59:60Z)

130

00 00 00 0a

correction

10

leapsecond[10]

134

17 80 fe 0a

occurrence

394329610
(1982-06-30T23:59:60Z)

138

00 00 00 0b

correction

11

142

19 62 31 8b

occurrence

425865611
(1983-06-30T23:59:60Z)

leapsecond[11]

Olson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9636

TZif

October 2024

File
Offset

Hexadecimal Octets

Record Name / Field
Name

Field Value

146

00 00 00 0c

correction

12

leapsecond[12]

150

1d 25 ea 0c

occurrence

489024012
(1985-06-30T23:59:60Z)

154

00 00 00 0d

correction

13

leapsecond[13]

158

21 da e5 0d

occurrence

567993613
(1987-12-31T23:59:60Z)

162

00 00 00 0e

correction

14

leapsecond[14]

166

25 9e 9d 8e

occurrence

631152014
(1989-12-31T23:59:60Z)

170

00 00 00 0f

correction

15

leapsecond[15]

174

27 7f d1 0f

occurrence

662688015
(1990-12-31T23:59:60Z)

178

00 00 00 10

correction

16

leapsecond[16]

182

2a 50 f5 90

occurrence

709948816
(1992-06-30T23:59:60Z)

186

00 00 00 11

correction

17

190

2c 32 29 11

occurrence

741484817
(1993-06-30T23:59:60Z)

leapsecond[17]

Olson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9636

TZif

October 2024

File
Offset

Hexadecimal Octets

Record Name / Field
Name

Field Value

194

00 00 00 12

correction

18

leapsecond[18]

198

2e 13 5c 92

occurrence

773020818
(1994-06-30T23:59:60Z)

202

00 00 00 13

correction

19

leapsecond[19]

206

30 e7 24 13

occurrence

820454419
(1995-12-31T23:59:60Z)

210

00 00 00 14

correction

20

leapsecond[20]

214

33 b8 48 94

occurrence

867715220
(1997-06-30T23:59:60Z)

218

00 00 00 15

correction

21

leapsecond[21]

222

36 8c 10 15

occurrence

915148821
(1998-12-31T23:59:60Z)

226

00 00 00 16

correction

22

leapsecond[22]

230

43 b7 1b 96

occurrence

1136073622
(2005-12-31T23:59:60Z)

234

00 00 00 17

correction

23

238

49 5c 07 97

occurrence

1230768023
(2008-12-31T23:59:60Z)

leapsecond[23]

Olson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9636

TZif

October 2024

File
Offset

Hexadecimal Octets

Record Name / Field
Name

Field Value

242

00 00 00 18

correction

24

leapsecond[24]

246

4f ef 93 18

occurrence

1341100824
(2012-06-30T23:59:60Z)

250

00 00 00 19

correction

25

leapsecond[25]

254

55 93 2d 99

occurrence

1435708825
(2015-06-30T23:59:60Z)

258

00 00 00 1a

correction

26

leapsecond[26]

262

58 68 46 9a

occurrence

1483228826
(2016-12-31T23:59:60Z)

266

00 00 00 1b

correction

27

270

271

Table 1

00

00

standard/wall[0]

0 (wall)

UT/local[0]

0 (local)

To determine TAI corresponding to 2000-01-01T00:00:00Z (UNIX time = 946684800), the following
procedure would be followed:

1.

Find the latest leap-second occurrence prior to the time of interest (leapsecond[21]) and note
the correction value (LEAPCORR = 22).

2.

Add LEAPCORR + 10 to the time of interest to yield TAI of 2000-01-01T00:00:32.

Olson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9636

TZif

October 2024

B.2.  Version 2 File Representing Pacific/Honolulu

File
Offset

Hexadecimal Octets

Record Name / Field
Name

Field Value

000

004

005

020

024

028

032

036

040

54 5a 69 66

32

00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00
00 00 00 00 00 00

00 00 00 06

00 00 00 06

00 00 00 00

00 00 00 07

00 00 00 06

00 00 00 14

magic

version

isutcnt

isstdcnt

leapcnt

timecnt

typecnt

charcnt

044

80 00 00 00

trans time[0]

048

bb 05 43 48

trans time[1]

052

bb 21 71 58

trans time[2]

056

cb 89 3d c8

trans time[3]

060

d2 23 f4 70

trans time[4]

064

d2 61 49 38

trans time[5]

068

d5 8d 73 48

trans time[6]

"TZif"

'2' (2)

6

6

0

7

6

20

-2147483648
(1901-12-13T20:45:52Z)

-1157283000
(1933-04-30T12:30:00Z)

-1155436200
(1933-05-21T21:30:00Z)

-880198200
(1942-02-09T12:30:00Z)

-769395600
(1945-08-14T23:00:00Z)

-765376200
(1945-09-30T11:30:00Z)

-712150200
(1947-06-08T12:30:00Z)

072

01

trans type[0]

1

Olson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 9636

TZif

October 2024

File
Offset

Hexadecimal Octets

Record Name / Field
Name

Field Value

073

074

075

076

077

078

079

083

084

085

089

090

091

095

096

097

101

102

02

01

03

04

01

05

ff ff 6c 02

00

00

ff ff 6c 58

00

04

ff ff 7a 68

01

08

ff ff 7a 68

01

0c

trans type[1]

trans type[2]

trans type[3]

trans type[4]

trans type[5]

trans type[6]

localtimetype[0]

utoff

isdst

desigidx

localtimetype[1]

utoff

isdst

desigidx

localtimetype[2]

utoff

isdst

desigidx

localtimetype[3]

utoff

isdst

desigidx

2

1

3

4

1

5

-37886 (-10:31:26)

0 (no)

0

-37800 (-10:30)

0 (no)

4

-34200 (-09:30)

1 (yes)

8

-34200 (-09:30)

1 (yes)

12

Olson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 9636

TZif

October 2024

File
Offset

Hexadecimal Octets

Record Name / Field
Name

Field Value

103

107

108

109

113

114

115

119

123

127

131

135

136

137

138

139

140

141

142

ff ff 7a 68

01

10

ff ff 73 60

00

04

4c 4d 54 00

48 53 54 00

48 44 54 00

48 57 54 00

48 50 54 00

00

00

00

00

01

00

00

00

localtimetype[4]

utoff

isdst

desigidx

localtimetype[5]

utoff

isdst

desigidx

-34200 (-09:30)

1 (yes)

16

-36000 (-10:00)

0 (no)

4

designations[0]

"LMT\0"

designations[4]

"HST\0"

designations[8]

"HDT\0"

designations[12]

"HWT\0"

designations[16]

"HPT\0"

standard/wall[0]

0 (wall)

standard/wall[1]

0 (wall)

standard/wall[2]

0 (wall)

standard/wall[3]

0 (wall)

standard/wall[4]

1 (standard)

standard/wall[5]

0 (wall)

UT/local[0]

UT/local[1]

0 (local)

0 (local)

Olson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 9636

TZif

October 2024

File
Offset

Hexadecimal Octets

Record Name / Field
Name

Field Value

143

144

145

146

147

151

152

167

171

175

179

183

187

00

00

01

00

54 5a 69 66

32

00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00
00 00 00 00 00 00

00 00 00 06

00 00 00 06

00 00 00 00

00 00 00 07

00 00 00 06

00 00 00 14

UT/local[2]

UT/local[3]

UT/local[4]

UT/local[5]

magic

version

isutcnt

isstdcnt

leapcnt

timecnt

typecnt

charcnt

191

ff ff ff ff 74 e0 70 be

trans time[0]

199

ff ff ff ff bb 05 43 48

trans time[1]

207

ff ff ff ff bb 21 71 58

trans time[2]

215

ff ff ff ff cb 89 3d c8

trans time[3]

223

ff ff ff ff d2 23 f4 70

trans time[4]

231

ff ff ff ff d2 61 49 38

trans time[5]

0 (local)

0 (local)

1 (UT)

0 (local)

"TZif"

'2' (2)

6

6

0

7

6

20

-2334101314
(1896-01-13T22:31:26Z)

-1157283000
(1933-04-30T12:30:00Z)

-1155436200
(1933-05-21T21:30:00Z)

-880198200
(1942-02-09T12:30:00Z)

-769395600
(1945-08-14T23:00:00Z)

-765376200
(1945-09-30T11:30:00Z)

Olson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 9636

TZif

October 2024

File
Offset

Hexadecimal Octets

Record Name / Field
Name

Field Value

239

ff ff ff ff d5 8d 73 48

trans time[6]

-712150200
(1947-06-08T12:30:00Z)

247

248

249

250

251

252

253

254

258

259

260

264

265

266

270

271

01

02

01

03

04

01

05

ff ff 6c 02

00

00

ff ff 6c 58

00

04

ff ff 7a 68

01

08

trans type[0]

trans type[1]

trans type[2]

trans type[3]

trans type[4]

trans type[5]

trans type[6]

localtimetype[0]

utoff

isdst

desigidx

localtimetype[1]

utoff

isdst

desigidx

localtimetype[2]

utoff

isdst

desigidx

localtimetype[3]

1

2

1

3

4

1

5

-37886 (-10:31:26)

0 (no)

0

-37800 (-10:30)

0 (no)

4

-34200 (-09:30)

1 (yes)

8

Olson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 9636

TZif

October 2024

File
Offset

Hexadecimal Octets

Record Name / Field
Name

Field Value

272

276

277

278

282

283

284

288

289

290

294

298

302

306

310

311

312

313

314

315

ff ff 7a 68

01

0c

ff ff 7a 68

01

10

ff ff 73 60

00

04

4c 4d 54 00

48 53 54 00

48 44 54 00

48 57 54 00

48 50 54 00

00

00

00

00

01

00

utoff

isdst

desigidx

localtimetype[4]

utoff

isdst

desigidx

localtimetype[5]

utoff

isdst

desigidx

-34200 (-09:30)

1 (yes)

12

-34200 (-09:30)

1 (yes)

16

-36000 (-10:00)

0 (no)

4

designations[0]

"LMT\0"

designations[4]

"HST\0"

designations[8]

"HDT\0"

designations[12]

"HWT\0"

designations[16]

"HPT\0"

standard/wall[0]

0 (wall)

standard/wall[1]

0 (wall)

standard/wall[2]

0 (wall)

standard/wall[3]

0 (wall)

standard/wall[4]

1 (standard)

standard/wall[5]

0 (wall)

Olson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 33

RFC 9636

TZif

October 2024

File
Offset

Hexadecimal Octets

Record Name / Field
Name

Field Value

316

317

318

319

320

321

322

323

328

Table 2

00

00

00

00

01

00

0a

UT/local[0]

UT/local[1]

UT/local[2]

UT/local[3]

UT/local[4]

UT/local[5]

0 (local)

0 (local)

0 (local)

0 (local)

1 (UT)

0 (local)

NL

'\n'

48 53 54 31 30

TZ string

"HST10"

0a

NL

'\n'

To determine the local time in this time zone corresponding to 1933-05-04T12:00:00Z (UNIX time
= -1156939200), the following procedure would be followed:

1.

Find the latest time transition prior to the time of interest (trans time[1]).

2.

Reference the corresponding transition type (trans type[1]) to determine the local time type
index (2).

3.

Reference the corresponding local time type (localtimetype[2]) to determine the offset from
UTC (-09:30), the daylight saving indicator (1 = yes), and the index into the time zone
designation strings (8).

4.

Look up the corresponding time zone designation string (designations[8] = "HDT").

5.

Add the UTC offset to the time of interest to yield a local daylight saving time of
1933-05-04T02:30:00-09:30 (HDT).

To determine the local time in this time zone corresponding to 2019-01-01T00:00:00Z (UNIX time
= 1546300800), the following procedure would be followed:

1.

Find the latest time transition prior to the time of interest (there is no such transition).

2.

Look up the TZ string in the footer ("HST10"), which indicates that the time zone designation
is "HST" year-round and the offset to UTC is 10:00.

3.

Subtract the UTC offset from the time of interest to yield a standard local time of
2018-12-31T14:00:00-10:00 (HST).

Olson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 34

RFC 9636

TZif

October 2024

B.3.  Truncated Version 2 File Representing Pacific/Johnston

The following TZif file has been truncated to end on 2004-06-161T00:00:00Z (the atoll was
abandoned sometime on 2004-06-15).

In this example:

•

The version 1 header contains only the required minimum data, which will be ignored by
readers.

•

The version 2 header leverages the fact that, by specifying 'isutcnt' and 'isstdcnt' as zero, all
transition times associated with local time types are assumed to be specified as local wall-
clock time (see the definitions of UT/local indicators and standard/wall indicators in Section
3.2).

•

The time type of the last transition has designation "-00", indicating that local time is
unspecified.

•

The TZ string is empty, indicating that there are no known future transitions.

File
Offset

Hexadecimal Octets

Record Name / Field
Name

Field Value

000

004

005

020

024

028

032

036

040

044

048

049

54 5a 69 66

32

00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00
00 00 00 00 00 00

00 00 00 00

00 00 00 00

00 00 00 00

00 00 00 00

00 00 00 01

00 00 00 01

00 00 00 00

00

00

magic

version

isutcnt

isstdcnt

leapcnt

timecnt

typecnt

charcnt

"TZif"

'2' (2)

0

0

0

0

1

1

localtimetype[0]

utoff

isdst

desigidx

0 (+00:00)

0 (no)

0

Olson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 35

RFC 9636

TZif

October 2024

File
Offset

Hexadecimal Octets

Record Name / Field
Name

Field Value

050

00

designations[0]

"\0"

051

055

056

071

075

079

083

087

091

54 5a 69 66

32

00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00
00 00 00 00 00 00

00 00 00 00

00 00 00 00

00 00 00 00

00 00 00 08

00 00 00 07

00 00 00 18

magic

version

isutcnt

isstdcnt

leapcnt

timecnt

typecnt

charcnt

095

ff ff ff ff 74 e0 70 be

trans time[0]

103

ff ff ff ff bb 05 43 48

trans time[1]

111

ff ff ff ff bb 21 71 58

trans time[2]

119

ff ff ff ff cb 89 3d c8

trans time[3]

127

ff ff ff ff d2 23 f4 70

trans time[4]

135

ff ff ff ff d2 61 49 38

trans time[5]

143

ff ff ff ff d5 8d 73 48

trans time[6]

"TZif"

'2' (2)

0

0

0

8

7

24

-2334101314
(1896-01-13T22:31:26Z)

-1157283000
(1933-04-30T12:30:00Z)

-1155436200
(1933-05-21T21:30:00Z)

-880198200
(1942-02-09T12:30:00Z)

-769395600
(1945-08-14T23:00:00Z)

-765376200
(1945-09-30T11:30:00Z)

-712150200
(1947-06-08T12:30:00Z)

Olson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 36

RFC 9636

TZif

October 2024

File
Offset

Hexadecimal Octets

Record Name / Field
Name

Field Value

151

00 00 00 00 40 cf 8d 80

trans time[7]

1087344000
(2004-06-16T00:00:00Z)

159

160

161

162

163

164

165

166

167

171

172

173

177

178

179

183

184

02

03

02

04

05

02

06

01

ff ff 6c 02

00

04

00 00 00 00

00

00

ff ff 6c 58

00

08

trans type[0]

trans type[1]

trans type[2]

trans type[3]

trans type[4]

trans type[5]

trans type[6]

trans type[7]

localtimetype[0]

utoff

isdst

desigidx

localtimetype[1]

utoff

isdst

desigidx

localtimetype[2]

utoff

isdst

desigidx

2

3

2

4

5

2

6

1

-37886 (-10:31:26)

0 (no)

4

0 (+00:00)

0 (no)

0

-37800 (-10:30)

0 (no)

8

Olson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 37

RFC 9636

TZif

October 2024

File
Offset

Hexadecimal Octets

Record Name / Field
Name

Field Value

185

189

190

191

195

196

197

201

202

203

207

208

209

213

217

221

225

229

ff ff 7a 68

01

0c

ff ff 7a 68

01

10

ff ff 7a 68

01

14

ff ff 73 60

00

08

2d 30 30 00

4c 4d 54 00

48 53 54 00

48 44 54 00

48 57 54 00

48 50 54 00

localtimetype[3]

utoff

isdst

desigidx

localtimetype[4]

utoff

isdst

desigidx

localtimetype[5]

utoff

isdst

desigidx

localtimetype[6]

utoff

isdst

desigidx

-34200 (-09:30)

1 (yes)

12

-34200 (-09:30)

1 (yes)

16

-34200 (-09:30)

1 (yes)

20

-36000 (-10:00)

0 (no)

8

designations[0]

"-00\0"

designations[4]

"LMT\0"

designations[8]

"HST\0"

designations[12]

"HDT\0"

designations[16]

"HWT\0"

designations[20]

"HPT\0"

Olson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 38

RFC 9636

TZif

October 2024

File
Offset

233

234

234

Table 3

Hexadecimal Octets

Record Name / Field
Name

Field Value

0a

0a

NL

TZ string

NL

'\n'

""

'\n'

B.4.  Truncated Version 3 File Representing Asia/Jerusalem

The following TZif file has been truncated to start on 2038-01-01T00:00:00Z.

In this example:

•

The start time value cannot be represented using 32 bits, so the version 1 header contains
only the required minimum data, which will be ignored by readers.

•

The version 3 header leverages the fact that, by specifying 'isutcnt' and 'isstdcnt' as zero, all
transition times associated with local time types are assumed to be specified as local wall-
clock time (see the definitions of UT/local indicators and standard/wall indicators in Section
3.2).

•

Time type 0 has designation "-00", indicating that local time is unspecified prior to the
truncation time.

•

The TZ string value has been line-wrapped for presentation purposes only.

File
Offset

Hexadecimal Octets

Record Name /
Field Name

Field Value

000

004

005

020

024

028

032

036

54 5a 69 66

33

00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00
00 00 00 00 00 00

00 00 00 00

00 00 00 00

00 00 00 00

00 00 00 00

00 00 00 01

magic

version

isutcnt

isstdcnt

leapcnt

timecnt

typecnt

"TZif"

'3' (3)

0

0

0

0

1

Olson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 39

RFC 9636

TZif

October 2024

File
Offset

Hexadecimal Octets

Record Name /
Field Name

Field Value

040

00 00 00 01

charcnt

1

044

048

049

050

051

055

056

071

075

079

083

087

091

00 00 00 00

00

00

00

54 5a 69 66

33

00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00
00 00 00 00 00 00

00 00 00 00

00 00 00 00

00 00 00 00

00 00 00 01

00 00 00 02

00 00 00 08

localtimetype[0]

utoff

isdst

desigidx

0 (+00:00)

0 (no)

0

designations[0]

"\0"

magic

version

isutcnt

isstdcnt

leapcnt

timecnt

typecnt

charcnt

"TZif"

'3' (3)

0

0

0

1

2

8

095

00 00 00 00 7f e8 17 80

trans time[0]

2145916800
(2038-01-01T00:00:00Z)

103

01

trans type[0]

1

104

108

00 00 00 00

00

localtimetype[0]

utoff

isdst

0 (+00:00)

0 (no)

Olson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 40

RFC 9636

TZif

October 2024

File
Offset

Hexadecimal Octets

Record Name /
Field Name

Field Value

109

00

desigidx

0

110

114

115

116

120

124

125

00 00 1c 20

00

04

2d 30 30 00

49 53 54 00

localtimetype[1]

utoff

isdst

desigidx

7200 (+02:00)

0 (no)

4

designations[0]

"-00\0"

designations[4]

"IST\0"

0a

NL

'\n'

49 53 54 2d 32 49 44 54 2c
4d 33 2e 34 2e 34 2f 32 36 2c
4d 31 30 2e 35 2e 30

TZ string

"IST-2IDT,M3.4.4/26,M10.5.0"

151

0a

Table 4

NL

'\n'

B.5.  Truncated Version 4 File Representing Europe/London

The following TZif file has been truncated to start on 2022-01-01T00:00:00Z.

In this example:

•

The version 1 header contains only the required minimum data, which will be ignored by
readers.

•

The version 4 header leverages the fact that, by specifying 'isutcnt' and 'isstdcnt' as zero, all
transition times associated with local time types are assumed to be specified as local wall-
clock time (see the definitions of UT/local indicators and standard/wall indicators in Section
3.2).

•

Time type 0 has designation "-00", indicating that local time is unspecified prior to the
truncation time.

•

The first leap-second occurrence is the most recent one prior to the truncation time.

•

The last leap-second correction matches the second-to-last leap-second correction, indicating
the expiration time of the leap-second table.

•

The TZ string value has been line-wrapped for presentation purposes only.

Olson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 41

RFC 9636

TZif

October 2024

File
Offset

Hexadecimal Octets

Record Name /
Field Name

Field Value

000

004

005

020

024

028

032

036

040

044

048

049

050

051

055

056

071

075

079

083

54 5a 69 66

34

00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00
00 00 00 00 00 00

00 00 00 00

00 00 00 00

00 00 00 00

00 00 00 00

00 00 00 01

00 00 00 01

00 00 00 00

00

00

00

54 5a 69 66

34

00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00
00 00 00 00 00 00

00 00 00 00

00 00 00 00

00 00 00 02

00 00 00 01

magic

version

isutcnt

isstdcnt

leapcnt

timecnt

typecnt

charcnt

"TZif"

'4' (4)

0

0

0

0

1

1

localtimetype[0]

utoff

isdst

desigidx

0 (+00:00)

0 (no)

0

designations[0]

"\0"

magic

version

isutcnt

isstdcnt

leapcnt

timecnt

"TZif"

'4' (4)

0

0

2

1

Olson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 42

RFC 9636

TZif

October 2024

File
Offset

087

091

Hexadecimal Octets

Record Name /
Field Name

Field Value

00 00 00 02

00 00 00 08

typecnt

charcnt

2

8

095

00 00 00 00 61 cf 99 9b

trans time[0]

1640995227
(2022-01-01T00:00:27Z)

103

01

trans type[0]

1

104

108

109

110

114

115

116

120

00 00 00 00

00

00

00 00 00 00

00

04

2d 30 30 00

47 4d 54 00

localtimetype[0]

utoff

isdst

desigidx

localtimetype[1]

utoff

isdst

desigidx

0 (+00:00)

0 (no)

0

0 (+00:00)

0 (no)

4

designations[0]

"-00\0"

designations[4]

"GMT\0"

leapsecond[0]

124

00 00 00 00 58 68 46 9a

occurrence

1483228826
(2016-12-31T23:59:60Z)

132

00 00 00 1b

correction

27

136

00 00 00 00 66 7d fd 1b

occurrence

1719532827
(2024-06-28T00:00:01Z)

leapsecond[1]

Olson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 43

27

'\n'

RFC 9636

TZif

October 2024

File
Offset

Hexadecimal Octets

Record Name /
Field Name

Field Value

144

00 00 00 1b

correction

0a

NL

148

149

47 4d 54 30 42 53 54 2c 4d
33 2e 35 2e 30 2f 31 2c 4d
31 30 2e 35 2e 30

TZ string

"GMT0BST,M3.5.0/1,M10.5.0"

173

0a

Table 5

NL

'\n'

Appendix C.  Changes from RFC 8536

•

Added definition of Leap Second.

•

Added specification of the version 4 format and the optional leap-second table truncation
and expiration, along with an example and relevant interoperability considerations.

•

Documented the longstanding practice that UT with designation string "-00" denotes
unspecified local time. Added recommendation that this designation string should be used
for timestamps excluded by TZif file truncation.

•

Required support in version 2 files for all-year daylight saving time, using POSIX TZ strings
with negative DST, as this is not an extension to POSIX (Section 3.3.1).

•

Applied erratum

[Err6435]

.

•

Addressed errata
examples.

[Err6426] [Err6757]
,

, and

[Err7681]

 as well as several other errors in the

•

Added additional interoperability considerations and common issues.

•

Added an

example of a TZif file truncated at the end (Appendix B.3)

.

•

Added informational notes to Appendix B.4.

•

Miscellaneous editorial changes.

Acknowledgments

The authors thank the following individuals for contributing their ideas and support for writing
this specification:
Tim
,
Parenti
.

Michael Douglass Ned Freed Guy Harris Eliot Lear Alexey Melnikov

, and

,

,

,

Authors' Addresses

Arthur David Olson
Email:

arthurdavidolson@gmail.com

Olson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 44

RFC 9636

TZif

October 2024

Paul Eggert
University of California, Los Angeles
Email:

eggert@cs.ucla.edu

Kenneth Murchison
Fastmail US LLC
Email:

murch@fastmailteam.com

Olson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 45

