Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9197
Standards Track
May 2022
2070-1721
F. Brockners,
Cisco

S. Bhandari,
Thoughtspot

 Ed.

 Ed.

T. Mizrahi,
Huawei

 Ed.

RFC 9197
Data Fields for In Situ Operations, Administration,
and Maintenance (IOAM)

Abstract

In situ Operations, Administration, and Maintenance (IOAM) collects operational and telemetry
information in the packet while the packet traverses a path between two points in the network.
This document discusses the data ﬁelds and associated data types for IOAM. IOAM-Data-Fields
can be encapsulated into a variety of protocols, such as Network Service Header (NSH), Segment
Routing, Generic Network Virtualization Encapsulation (Geneve), or IPv6. IOAM can be used to
complement OAM mechanisms based on, e.g., ICMP or other types of probe packets.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

.
https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9197

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Brockners, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9197

In Situ OAM Data Fields

May 2022

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Conventions

3.  Scope, Applicability, and Assumptions

4.  IOAM Data-Fields, Types, and Nodes

4.1.  IOAM Data-Fields and Option-Types

4.2.  IOAM-Domains and Types of IOAM Nodes

4.3.  IOAM-Namespaces

4.4.  IOAM Trace Option-Types

4.4.1.  Pre-allocated and Incremental Trace Option-Types

4.4.2.  IOAM Node Data Fields and Associated Formats

4.4.2.1.  Hop_Lim and node_id Short

4.4.2.2.  ingress_if_id and egress_if_id Short

4.4.2.3.  Timestamp Seconds

4.4.2.4.  Timestamp Fraction

4.4.2.5.  Transit Delay

4.4.2.6.  Namespace-Speciﬁc Data

4.4.2.7.  Queue Depth

4.4.2.8.  Checksum Complement

4.4.2.9.  Hop_Lim and node_id Wide

4.4.2.10. ingress_if_id and egress_if_id Wide

4.4.2.11. Namespace-Speciﬁc Data Wide

4.4.2.12. Buﬀer Occupancy

4.4.2.13. Opaque State Snapshot

4.4.3.  Examples of IOAM Node Data

4.5.  IOAM Proof of Transit Option-Type

4.5.1.  IOAM Proof of Transit Type 0

Brockners, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9197

In Situ OAM Data Fields

May 2022

4.6.  IOAM Edge-to-Edge Option-Type

5.  Timestamp Formats

5.1.  PTP Truncated Timestamp Format

5.2.  NTP 64-Bit Timestamp Format

5.3.  POSIX-Based Timestamp Format

6.  IOAM Data Export

7.  IANA Considerations

7.1.  IOAM Option-Type Registry

7.2.  IOAM Trace-Type Registry

7.3.  IOAM Trace-Flags Registry

7.4.  IOAM POT-Type Registry

7.5.  IOAM POT-Flags Registry

7.6.  IOAM E2E-Type Registry

7.7.  IOAM Namespace-ID Registry

8.  Management and Deployment Considerations

9.  Security Considerations

10. References

10.1.  Normative References

10.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

This document deﬁnes data ﬁelds for In situ Operations, Administration, and Maintenance
(IOAM). IOAM records OAM information within the packet while the packet traverses a particular
network domain. The term "in situ" refers to the fact that the OAM data is added to the data
packets rather than being sent within packets speciﬁcally dedicated to OAM. IOAM is used to
complement mechanisms, such as Ping or Traceroute. In terms of "active" or "passive" OAM,
IOAM can be considered a hybrid OAM type. "In situ" mechanisms do not require extra packets to
be sent. IOAM adds information to the already available data packets and therefore cannot be

Brockners, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9197

In Situ OAM Data Fields

May 2022

considered passive. In terms of the classiﬁcation given in
Hybrid Type I. IOAM mechanisms can be leveraged where mechanisms using, e.g., ICMP do not
apply or do not oﬀer the desired results, such as proving that a certain traﬃc ﬂow takes a
predeﬁned path, Service Level Agreement (SLA) veriﬁcation for the data traﬃc, detailed statistics
on traﬃc distribution paths in networks that distribute traﬃc across multiple paths, or scenarios
in which probe traﬃc is potentially handled diﬀerently from regular data traﬃc by the network
devices.

, IOAM could be portrayed as

[RFC7799]

The term "in situ OAM" was originally motivated by the use of OAM-related mechanisms that add
information into a packet. This document uses IOAM as a term deﬁning the IOAM technology.
IOAM includes "in situ" mechanisms but also mechanisms that could trigger the creation of
additional packets dedicated to OAM.

2.  Conventions

", "
The key words "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
"
", "
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

Abbreviations and deﬁnitions used in this document:

E2E:

Edge to Edge

Geneve:

Generic Network Virtualization Encapsulation

[RFC8926]

IOAM:

In situ Operations, Administration, and Maintenance

MTU:

NSH:

OAM:

Maximum Transmission Unit

Network Service Header

[RFC8300]

Operations, Administration, and Maintenance

PMTU:

Path MTU

POT:

Proof of Transit

Short format:

refers to an IOAM-Data-Field that comprises 4 octets

SID:

SR:

Segment Identiﬁer

Segment Routing

VXLAN-GPE:

Virtual eXtensible Local Area Network, Generic Protocol Extension
VXLAN-GPE]

[NVO3-

Wide format:

refers to an IOAM-Data-Field that comprises 8 octets

Brockners, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9197

In Situ OAM Data Fields

May 2022

3.  Scope, Applicability, and Assumptions

IOAM assumes a set of constraints as well as guiding principles and concepts that go hand in
hand with the deﬁnition of the IOAM-Data-Fields. These constraints, guiding principles, and
concepts are described in this section. A discussion of how IOAM-Data-Fields and the associated
concepts are applied to an IOAM deployment are out of scope for this document. Please refer to
[IPPM-IOAM-DEPLOYMENT]
 for IOAM deployment considerations.

Scope:

This document deﬁnes the data ﬁelds and associated data types for IOAM. The IOAM-Data-
Fields can be encapsulated in a variety of protocols, including NSH, Segment Routing, Geneve,
and IPv6. Speciﬁcation details for these diﬀerent protocols are outside the scope of this
document. It is expected that each such encapsulation would be speciﬁed by an RFC and
jointly designed by the working group that develops or maintains the encapsulation protocol
and the IETF IP Performance Measurement (IPPM) Working Group.

Domain (or scope) of in situ OAM deployment:

[RFC8799]

. For IOAM, a limited domain
IOAM is focused on "limited domains", as deﬁned in
could, for example, be an enterprise campus using physical connections between devices or
an overlay network using virtual connections/tunnels for connectivity between said devices.
A limited domain that uses IOAM may constitute one or multiple "IOAM-Domains", each
disambiguated through separate namespace identiﬁers. An IOAM-Domain is bounded by its
perimeter or edge. IOAM-Domains may overlap inside the limited domain. Designers of
protocol encapsulations for IOAM specify mechanisms to ensure that IOAM data stays within
an IOAM-Domain. In addition, the operator of such a domain is expected to put provisions in
place to ensure that IOAM data does not leak beyond the edge of an IOAM-Domain using, for
example, packet ﬁltering methods. The operator
 consider the potential operational
impact of IOAM to mechanisms, such as ECMP processing (e.g., load-balancing schemes based
on packet length could be impacted by the increased packet size due to IOAM), PMTU (i.e.,
ensure that the MTU of all links within a domain is suﬃciently large to support the increased
packet size due to IOAM), and ICMP message handling (i.e., in case of IPv6, IOAM support for
ICMPv6 echo request/reply is desired, which would translate into ICMPv6 extensions to enable
IOAM-Data-Fields to be copied from an echo request message to an echo reply message).

SHOULD

IOAM control points:

IOAM-Data-Fields are added to or removed from the user traﬃc by the devices that form the
edge of a domain. Devices that form an IOAM-Domain can add, update, or remove IOAM-
Data-Fields. Edge devices of an IOAM-Domain can be hosts or network devices.

Brockners, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9197

In Situ OAM Data Fields

May 2022

Traﬃc sets that IOAM is applied to:

IOAM can be deployed on all or only on subsets of the user traﬃc. Using IOAM on a selected
set of traﬃc (e.g., per interface, based on an access control list or ﬂow speciﬁcation deﬁning a
speciﬁc set of traﬃc, etc.) could be useful in deployments where the cost of processing IOAM-
Data-Fields by encapsulating, transit, or decapsulating nodes might be a concern from a
performance or operational perspective. Thus, limiting the amount of traﬃc IOAM is applied
to could be beneﬁcial in some deployments.

Encapsulation independence:

The deﬁnition of IOAM-Data-Fields is independent from the protocols the IOAM-Data-Fields
are encapsulated into. IOAM-Data-Fields can be encapsulated into several encapsulating
protocols.

Layering:

If several encapsulation protocols (e.g., in case of tunneling) are stacked on top of each other,
IOAM-Data-Fields could be present at multiple layers. The behavior follows the "ships-in-the-
night" model, i.e., IOAM-Data-Fields in one layer are independent from IOAM-Data-Fields in
another layer. Layering allows operators to instrument the protocol layer they want to
measure. The diﬀerent layers could, but do not have to, share the same IOAM encapsulation
mechanisms.

IOAM implementation:

The deﬁnition of the IOAM-Data-Fields takes the speciﬁcs of devices with hardware data
planes and software data planes into account.

4.  IOAM Data-Fields, Types, and Nodes

This section details IOAM-related nomenclature and describes data types, such as IOAM-Data-
Fields, IOAM-Types, IOAM-Namespaces, as well as the diﬀerent types of IOAM nodes.

4.1.  IOAM Data-Fields and Option-Types

An IOAM-Data-Field is a set of bits with a deﬁned format and meaning, which can be stored at a
certain place in a packet for the purpose of IOAM.

To accommodate the diﬀerent uses of IOAM, IOAM-Data-Fields fall into diﬀerent categories. In
IOAM, these categories are referred to as "IOAM-Option-Types". A common registry is maintained
for IOAM-Option-Types (see Section 7.1 for details). Corresponding to these IOAM-Option-Types,
diﬀerent IOAM-Data-Fields are deﬁned.

This document deﬁnes four IOAM-Option-Types:

•

Pre-allocated Trace Option-Type

•

Incremental Trace Option-Type

•

POT Option-Type

•

E2E Option-Type

Brockners, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9197

In Situ OAM Data Fields

May 2022

Future IOAM-Option-Types can be allocated by IANA, as described in Section 7.1.

4.2.  IOAM-Domains and Types of IOAM Nodes

[RFC8799]
Section 3 already mentioned that IOAM is expected to be deployed in a limited domain
One or more IOAM-Option-Types are added to a packet upon entering an IOAM-Domain and are
removed from the packet when exiting the domain. Within the IOAM-Domain, the IOAM-Data-
Fields
 be updated by network nodes that the packet traverses. An IOAM-Domain consists of
"IOAM encapsulating nodes", "IOAM decapsulating nodes", and "IOAM transit nodes". The role of
a node (i.e., encapsulating, transit, and decapsulating) is deﬁned within an IOAM-Namespace (see
below). A node can have diﬀerent roles in diﬀerent IOAM-Namespaces.

MAY

.

A device that adds at least one IOAM-Option-Type to the packet is called an "IOAM encapsulating
node", whereas a device that removes an IOAM-Option-Type is referred to as an "IOAM
decapsulating node". Nodes within the domain that are aware of IOAM data and read, write, and/
or process IOAM data are called "IOAM transit nodes". IOAM nodes that add or remove the IOAM-
Data-Fields can also update the IOAM-Data-Fields at the same time. Or, in other words, IOAM
encapsulating or decapsulating nodes can also serve as IOAM transit nodes at the same time.
Note that not every node in an IOAM-Domain needs to be an IOAM transit node. For example, a
deployment might require that packets traverse a set of ﬁrewalls that support IOAM. In that case,
only the set of ﬁrewall nodes would be IOAM transit nodes, rather than all nodes.

An IOAM encapsulating node incorporates one or more IOAM-Option-Types (from the list of
IOAM-Types, see Section 7.1) into packets that IOAM is enabled for. If IOAM is enabled for a
selected subset of the traﬃc, the IOAM encapsulating node is responsible for applying the IOAM
functionality to the selected subset.

An IOAM transit node reads, writes, and/or processes one or more of the IOAM-Data-Fields. If
both the Pre-allocated and the Incremental Trace Option-Types are present in the packet, each
IOAM transit node, based on conﬁguration and available implementation of IOAM, might
populate IOAM trace data in either a Pre-allocated or Incremental Trace Option-Type but not
both. Note that not populating any of the Trace Option-Types is also valid behavior for an IOAM
transit node. A transit node
transit node
Option-Types from a packet, and
Edge Option-Type.

 ignore IOAM-Option-Types that it does not understand. A
 remove IOAM-

 change the IOAM-Data-Fields of an IOAM Edge-to-

 add new IOAM-Option-Types to a packet,

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

MUST

An IOAM decapsulating node removes IOAM-Option-Type(s) from packets.

The role of an IOAM encapsulating, IOAM transit, or IOAM decapsulating node is always
performed within a speciﬁc IOAM-Namespace. This means that an IOAM node that is, e.g., an
IOAM decapsulating node for IOAM-Namespace "A" but not for IOAM-Namespace "B" will only
remove the IOAM-Option-Types for IOAM-Namespace "A" from the packet. Note that this applies
even for IOAM-Option-Types that the node does not understand, for example, an IOAM-Option-
Type other than the four described above, which is added in a future revision.

Brockners, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9197

In Situ OAM Data Fields

May 2022

IOAM-Namespaces allow for a namespace-speciﬁc deﬁnition and interpretation of IOAM-Data-
Fields. An interface identiﬁer could, for example, point to a physical interface (e.g., to understand
which physical interface of an aggregated link is used when receiving or transmitting a packet),
whereas, in another case, it could refer to a logical interface (e.g., in case of tunnels). Please refer
to Section 4.3 for details on IOAM-Namespaces.

4.3.  IOAM-Namespaces

IOAM-Namespaces add further context to IOAM-Option-Types and associated IOAM-Data-Fields.
The IOAM-Option-Types and associated IOAM-Data-Fields are interpreted as deﬁned in this
document, regardless of the value of the IOAM-Namespace. However, IOAM-Namespaces provide
a way to group nodes to support diﬀerent deployment approaches of IOAM (see a few example
use cases below). IOAM-Namespaces also help to resolve potential issues that can occur due to
IOAM-Data-Fields not being globally unique (e.g., IOAM node identiﬁers do not have to be globally
unique). The signiﬁcance of IOAM-Data-Fields is always within a particular IOAM-Namespace.
Given that IOAM-Data-Fields are always interpreted as the context of a speciﬁc namespace, the
Namespace-ID ﬁeld always needs to be carried along with the IOAM data-ﬁelds themselves.

An IOAM-Namespace is identiﬁed by a 16-bit namespace identiﬁer (Namespace-ID). The IOAM-
Namespace ﬁeld is included in all the IOAM-Option-Types deﬁned in this document and
included in all future IOAM-Option-Types. The Namespace-ID value is divided into two subranges:

MUST

 be

•

an operator-assigned range from 0x0001 to 0x7FFF and

•

an IANA-assigned range from 0x8000 to 0xFFFF.

The IANA-assigned range is intended to allow future extensions to have new and interoperable
IOAM functionality, while the operator-assigned range is intended to be domain speciﬁc and
managed by the network operator. The Namespace-ID value of 0x0000 is the "Default-Namespace-
ID". The Default-Namespace-ID indicates that no speciﬁc namespace is associated with the IOAM-
Data-Fields in the packet. The Default-Namespace-ID
implementing IOAM. A use case for the Default-Namespace-ID are deployments that do not
leverage speciﬁc namespaces for some or all of their packets that carry IOAM-Data-Fields.

 be supported by all nodes

MUST

Namespace identiﬁers allow devices that are IOAM capable to determine:

•

whether one or more IOAM-Option-Types need to be processed by a device. If the Namespace-
ID contained in a packet does not match any Namespace-ID the node is conﬁgured to operate
on, then the node

 change the contents of the IOAM-Data-Fields.

MUST NOT

•

which IOAM-Option-Type needs to be processed/updated in case there are multiple IOAM-
Option-Types present in the packet. Multiple IOAM-Option-Types can be present in a packet
in case of overlapping IOAM-Domains or in case of a layered IOAM deployment.

•

whether one or more IOAM-Option-Types have to be removed from the packet, e.g., at a
domain edge or domain boundary.

Brockners, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9197

In Situ OAM Data Fields

May 2022

IOAM-Namespaces support several diﬀerent uses:

•

IOAM-Namespaces can be used by an operator to distinguish diﬀerent IOAM-Domains.
Devices at edges of an IOAM-Domain can ﬁlter on Namespace-IDs to provide for proper
IOAM-Domain isolation.

•

IOAM-Namespaces provide additional context for IOAM-Data-Fields and, thus, can be used to
ensure that IOAM-Data-Fields are unique and are interpreted properly by management
stations or network controllers. The node identiﬁer ﬁeld (node_id, see below) does not need
to be unique in a deployment. This could be the case if an operator wishes to use diﬀerent
node identiﬁers for diﬀerent IOAM layers, even within the same device, or node identiﬁers
might not be unique for other organizational reasons, such as after a merger of two formerly
separated organizations. The Namespace-ID can be used as a context identiﬁer, such that the
combination of node_id and Namespace-ID will always be unique.

•

Similarly, IOAM-Namespaces can be used to deﬁne how certain IOAM-Data-Fields are
interpreted; IOAM oﬀers three diﬀerent timestamp format options. The Namespace-ID can be
used to determine the timestamp format. IOAM-Data-Fields (e.g., buﬀer occupancy) that do
not have a unit associated are to be interpreted within the context of an IOAM-Namespace.

•

IOAM-Namespaces can be used to identify diﬀerent sets of devices (e.g., diﬀerent types of
devices) in a deployment; if an operator wants to insert diﬀerent IOAM-Data-Fields based on
the device, the devices could be grouped into multiple IOAM-Namespaces. This could be due to
the fact that the IOAM feature set diﬀers between diﬀerent sets of devices, or it could be for
reasons of optimized space usage in the packet header. It could also stem from hardware or
operational limitations on the size of the trace data that can be added and processed,
preventing collection of a full trace for a ﬂow.

•

By assigning diﬀerent IOAM Namespace-IDs to diﬀerent sets of nodes or network partitions
and using a separate instance of an IOAM-Option-Type for each Namespace-ID, a full trace
for a ﬂow could be collected and constructed via partial traces from each IOAM-Option-Type
in each of the packets in the ﬂow. For example, an operator could choose to group the devices
of a domain into two IOAM-Namespaces in a way that each IOAM-Namespace is represented
by one of two IOAM-Option-Types in the packet. Each node would record data only for the
IOAM-Namespace that it belongs to, ignoring the other IOAM-Option-Type with an IOAM-
Namespace to which it doesn't belong. To retrieve a full view of the deployment, the captured
IOAM-Data-Fields of the two IOAM-Namespaces need to be correlated.

Brockners, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9197

In Situ OAM Data Fields

May 2022

4.4.  IOAM Trace Option-Types

In a typical deployment, all nodes in an IOAM-Domain would participate in IOAM; thus, they
would be IOAM transit nodes, IOAM encapsulating nodes, or IOAM decapsulating nodes. If not all
nodes within a domain support IOAM functionality as deﬁned in this document, IOAM tracing
information (i.e., node data, see below) can only be collected on those nodes that support IOAM
functionality as deﬁned in this document. Nodes that do not support IOAM functionality as
deﬁned in this document will forward the packet without any changes to the IOAM-Data-Fields.
The maximum number of hops and the minimum PMTU of the IOAM-Domain is assumed to be
known. An overﬂow indicator (O-bit) is deﬁned as one of the ways to deal with situations where
the PMTU was underestimated, i.e., where the number of hops that are IOAM capable exceeds the
available space in the packet.

To optimize hardware and software implementations, IOAM tracing is deﬁned as two separate
options. A deployment can choose to conﬁgure and support one or both of the following options.

Pre-allocated Trace-Option:

This trace option is deﬁned as a container of node data ﬁelds (see below) with pre-allocated
space for each node to populate its information. This option is useful for implementations
where it is eﬃcient to allocate the space once and index into the array to populate the data
during transit (e.g., software forwarders often fall into this class). The IOAM encapsulating
node allocates space for the Pre-allocated Trace Option-Type in the packet and sets
corresponding ﬁelds in this IOAM-Option-Type. The IOAM encapsulating node allocates an
array that is used to store operational data retrieved from every node while the packet
traverses the domain. IOAM transit nodes update the content of the array and possibly update
the checksums of outer headers. A pointer that is part of the IOAM trace data points to the next
empty slot in the array. An IOAM transit node that updates the content of the Pre-allocated
Trace-Option also updates the value of the pointer, which speciﬁes where the next IOAM
transit node ﬁlls in its data. The "node data list" array (see below) in the packet is populated
iteratively as the packet traverses the network, starting with the last entry of the array, i.e.,
"node data list [n]" is the ﬁrst entry to be populated, "node data list [n-1]" is the second one, etc.

Incremental Trace-Option:

This trace option is deﬁned as a container of node data ﬁelds, where each node allocates and
pushes its node data immediately following the option header. This type of trace recording is
useful for some of the hardware implementations, as it eliminates the need for the transit
network elements to read the full array in the option and allows for as arbitrarily long packets
as the MTU allows. The IOAM encapsulating node allocates space for the Incremental Trace
Option-Type. Based on the operational state and conﬁguration, the IOAM encapsulating node
sets the ﬁelds in the Option-Type that control what IOAM-Data-Fields have to be collected and
how large the node data list can grow. IOAM transit nodes push their node data to the node
data list subject to any protocol constraints of the encapsulating layer. They then decrease the
remaining length available to subsequent nodes and adjust the lengths and possibly
checksums in outer headers.

Brockners, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9197

In Situ OAM Data Fields

May 2022

IOAM encapsulating nodes and IOAM decapsulating nodes that support tracing
both Trace Option-Types. For IOAM transit nodes, it is suﬃcient to support one of the Trace
Option-Types. In the event that both options are utilized in a deployment at the same time, the
Incremental Trace-Option
 be placed before the Pre-allocated Trace-Option. Deployments
that mix devices with either the Incremental Trace-Option or the Pre-allocated Trace-Option
could result in both Option-Types being present in a packet. Given that the operator knows which
equipment is deployed in a particular IOAM-Domain, the operator will decide by means of
conﬁguration which type(s) of trace options will be used for a particular domain.

 support

MUST

MUST

Every node data entry holds information for a particular IOAM transit node that is traversed by
a packet. The IOAM decapsulating node removes the IOAM-Option-Types and processes and/or
exports the associated data. Like all IOAM-Data-Fields, the IOAM-Data-Fields of the IOAM Trace
Option-Types are deﬁned in the context of an IOAM-Namespace.

IOAM tracing can collect the following types of information:

•

Identiﬁcation of the IOAM node. An IOAM node identiﬁer can match to a device identiﬁer or
a particular control point or subsystem within a device.

•

Identiﬁcation of the interface that a packet was received on, i.e., ingress interface.

•

Identiﬁcation of the interface that a packet was sent out on, i.e., egress interface.

•

Time of day when the packet was processed by the node, as well as the transit delay. Diﬀerent
deﬁnitions of processing time are feasible and expected, though it is important that all
devices of an IOAM-Domain follow the same deﬁnition.

•

Generic data, i.e., format-free information where syntax and semantics of the information is
deﬁned by the operator in a speciﬁc deployment. For a speciﬁc IOAM-Namespace, all IOAM
nodes have to interpret the generic data the same way. Examples for generic IOAM data
include geolocation information (location of the node at the time the packet was processed),
buﬀer queue ﬁll level or cache ﬁll level at the time the packet was processed, or even a
battery-charge level.

•

Information to detect whether IOAM trace data was added at every hop or whether certain
hops in the domain weren't IOAM transit nodes.

It should be noted that the semantics of some of the node data ﬁelds that are deﬁned below, such
as the queue depth and buﬀer occupancy, are implementation speciﬁc. This approach is intended
to allow IOAM nodes with various diﬀerent architectures.

4.4.1.  Pre-allocated and Incremental Trace Option-Types

The IOAM Pre-allocated Trace-Option and the IOAM Incremental Trace-Option have similar
formats. Except where noted below, the internal formats and ﬁelds of the two trace options are
identical. Both trace options consist of a ﬁxed-size "trace option header" and a variable data
space to store gathered data, i.e., the "node data list". An IOAM transit node (that is, not an IOAM
 modify any of the ﬁelds in the ﬁxed-
encapsulating node or IOAM decapsulating node)
size "trace option header", other than Flags" and "RemainingLen", i.e., an IOAM transit node
MUST
NOT

 modify the Namespace-ID, NodeLen, IOAM Trace-Type, or Reserved ﬁelds.

MUST NOT

The Pre-allocated and Incremental Trace-Option headers:

Brockners, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9197

In Situ OAM Data Fields

May 2022

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|        Namespace-ID           |NodeLen  | Flags | RemainingLen|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|               IOAM Trace-Type                 |  Reserved     |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

The trace option data

MUST

 be aligned by 4 octets:

+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+<-+
|                                                               |  |
|                        node data list [0]                     |  |
|                                                               |  |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+  D
|                                                               |  a
|                        node data list [1]                     |  t
|                                                               |  a
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
~                             ...                               ~  S
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+  p
|                                                               |  a
|                        node data list [n-1]                   |  c
|                                                               |  e
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+  |
|                                                               |  |
|                        node data list [n]                     |  |
|                                                               |  |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+<-+

Namespace-ID:

16-bit identiﬁer of an IOAM-Namespace. The Namespace-ID value of 0x0000 is deﬁned as the
"Default-Namespace-ID" (see Section 4.3) and
 be known to all the nodes implementing
IOAM. For any other Namespace-ID value that does not match any Namespace-ID the node is
conﬁgured to operate on, the node

 change the contents of the IOAM-Data-Fields.

MUST NOT

MUST

NodeLen:

5-bit unsigned integer. This ﬁeld speciﬁes the length of data added by each node in multiples of
4 octets, excluding the length of the "Opaque State Snapshot" ﬁeld.

If IOAM Trace-Type Bit 22 is not set, then NodeLen speciﬁes the actual length added by each
node. If IOAM Trace-Type Bit 22 is set, then the actual length added by a node would be
(NodeLen + length of the "Opaque State Snapshot" ﬁeld) in 4-octet units.

For example, if 3 IOAM Trace-Type bits are set and none of them are in wide format, then
NodeLen would be 3. If 3 IOAM Trace-Type bits are set and 2 of them are wide, then NodeLen
would be 5.

An IOAM encapsulating node

MUST

 set NodeLen.

Brockners, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9197

In Situ OAM Data Fields

May 2022

A node receiving an IOAM Pre-allocated or Incremental Trace-Option relies on the NodeLen
value.

Flags:

4-bit ﬁeld. Flags are allocated by IANA, as speciﬁed in Section 7.3. This document allocates a
single ﬂag as follows:

Bit 0:

"Overﬂow" (O-bit) (most signiﬁcant bit). In case a network element is supposed to add node
data to a packet but detects that there are not enough octets left to record the node data,
the network element
 set the overﬂow "O-bit" to "1" in
the IOAM Trace-Option header. This is useful for transit nodes to ignore further processing
of the option.

 add any ﬁelds and

MUST NOT

MUST

RemainingLen:

MAY

 calculate the value of

 assign the initial value of the RemainingLen ﬁeld. The sender

7-bit unsigned integer. This ﬁeld speciﬁes the data space in multiples of 4 octets remaining for
recording the node data before the node data list is considered to have overﬂowed. The sender
MUST
the RemainingLen ﬁeld by computing the number of node data bytes allowed before
exceeding the PMTU, given that the PMTU is known to the sender. Subsequent nodes can carry
out a simple comparison between RemainingLen and NodeLen, along with the length of the
"Opaque State Snapshot", if applicable, to determine whether or not data can be added by this
node. When node data is added, the node
MUST
added. In the Pre-allocated Trace-Option, RemainingLen is used to derive the oﬀset in data
space to record the node data element. Speciﬁcally, the recording of the node data element
would start from RemainingLen - NodeLen - size of (opaque snapshot) in 4-octet units. If
RemainingLen in a Pre-allocated Trace-Option exceeds the length of the option, as speciﬁed in
the lower-layer header (which is not within the scope of this document), then the node
NOT

 decrease RemainingLen by the amount of data

 add any ﬁelds.

MUST

IOAM Trace-Type:

24-bit identiﬁer that speciﬁes which data types are used in this node data list.

The IOAM Trace-Type value is a bit ﬁeld. The following bits are deﬁned in this document, with
details on each bit described in Section 4.4.2. The order of packing the data ﬁelds in each node
data element follows the bit order of the IOAM Trace-Type ﬁeld as follows:

Bit 0

Bit 1

Bit 2

Bit 3

Bit 4

Most signiﬁcant bit. When set, indicates the presence of Hop_Lim and node_id
(short format) in the node data.

When set, indicates the presence of ingress_if_id and egress_if_id (short format) in
the node data.

When set, indicates the presence of timestamp seconds in the node data.

When set, indicates the presence of timestamp fraction in the node data.

When set, indicates the presence of transit delay in the node data.

Brockners, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9197

In Situ OAM Data Fields

May 2022

Bit 5

Bit 6

Bit 7

Bit 8

Bit 9

When set, indicates the presence of IOAM-Namespace-speciﬁc data in short format
in the node data.

When set, indicates the presence of queue depth in the node data.

When set, indicates the presence of the Checksum Complement node data.

When set, indicates the presence of Hop_Lim and node_id in wide format in the
node data.

When set, indicates the presence of ingress_if_id and egress_if_id in wide format in
the node data.

Bit 10

When set, indicates the presence of IOAM-Namespace-speciﬁc data in wide format
in the node data.

Bit 11

When set, indicates the presence of buﬀer occupancy in the node data.

Bits 12-21

Undeﬁned. These values are available for future assignment in the IOAM Trace-
Type Registry (Section 7.2). Every future node data ﬁeld corresponding to one of
these bits
 set the value of
each undeﬁned bit to 0. If an IOAM transit node receives a packet with one or more
of these bits set to 1, it

 be 4 octets long. An IOAM encapsulating node

 either:

MUST

MUST

MUST

1.

add corresponding node data ﬁlled with the reserved value 0xFFFFFFFF after
the node data ﬁelds for the IOAM Trace-Type bits deﬁned above, such that the
total node data added by this node in units of 4 octets is equal to NodeLen or

2.

not add any node data ﬁelds to the packet, even for the IOAM Trace-Type bits
deﬁned above.

Bit 22

When set, indicates the presence of the variable-length Opaque State Snapshot ﬁeld.

Bit 23

Reserved;
bit is reserved to allow for future extensions of the IOAM Trace-Type bit ﬁeld.

 be set to zero upon transmission and be ignored upon receipt. This

MUST

Section 4.4.2 describes the IOAM-Data-Types and their formats. Within an IOAM-Domain,
possible combinations of these bits making the IOAM Trace-Type can be restricted by
conﬁguration knobs.

Reserved:

8 bits. An IOAM encapsulating node
transit nodes

MUST

 ignore the received value.

MUST

 set the value to zero upon transmission. IOAM

Node data List [n]:

Variable-length ﬁeld. This is a list of node data elements where the content of each node data
element is determined by the IOAM Trace-Type. The order of packing the data ﬁelds in each
node data element follows the bit order of the IOAM Trace-Type ﬁeld. Each node
prepend its node data element in front of the node data elements that it received, such that the
transmitted node data list begins with this node's data element as the ﬁrst populated element
in the list. The last node data element in this list is the node data of the ﬁrst IOAM-capable

MUST

Brockners, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9197

In Situ OAM Data Fields

May 2022

node in the path. Populating the node data list in this way ensures that the order of the node
data list is the same for Incremental and Pre-allocated Trace-Options. In the Pre-allocated
Trace-Option, the index contained in RemainingLen identiﬁes the oﬀset for current active
node data to be populated.

4.4.2.  IOAM Node Data Fields and Associated Formats

MUST

 be aligned by 4 octets. If a node that is supposed to update an

All the IOAM-Data-Fields
IOAM-Data-Field is not capable of populating the value of a ﬁeld set in the IOAM Trace-Type, the
ﬁeld value
 be set to 0xFFFFFFFF for 4-octet ﬁelds or 0xFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFF for 8-octet ﬁelds,
indicating that the value is not populated, except when explicitly speciﬁed in the ﬁeld description
below.

MUST

Some IOAM-Data-Fields deﬁned below, such as interface identiﬁers or IOAM-Namespace-speciﬁc
data, are deﬁned in both "short format" and "wide format". The use of "short format" or "wide
format" is not mutually exclusive. A deployment could choose to leverage both. For example,
ingress_if_id_(short format) could be an identiﬁer for the physical interface, whereas
ingress_if_id_(wide format) could be an identiﬁer for a logical sub-interface of that physical
interface.

Data ﬁelds and associated data types for each of the IOAM-Data-Fields are speciﬁed in the
following sections. The deﬁnition of IOAM-Data-Fields focuses on the syntax of the data ﬁelds
and avoids specifying the semantics where feasible. This is why no units are deﬁned for data
ﬁelds, e.g., like "buﬀer occupancy" or "queue depth". With this approach, nodes can supply the
information in their original format and are not required to perform unit or format conversions.
Systems that further process IOAM information, e.g., like a network management system, are
assumed to also handle unit conversions as part of their IOAM-Data-Fields processing. The
combination of a particular data ﬁeld and the Namespace-ID provides for the context to
interpret the provided data appropriately.

4.4.2.1.  Hop_Lim and node_id Short

The "Hop_Lim and node_id short" ﬁeld is a 4-octet ﬁeld that is deﬁned as follows:

 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   Hop_Lim     |              node_id                          |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Hop_Lim:

1-octet unsigned integer. It is set to the Hop Limit value in the packet at egress from the node
that records this data. Hop Limit information is used to identify the location of the node in the
communication path. This is copied from the lower layer, e.g., TTL value in IPv4 header or Hop
Limit ﬁeld from IPv6 header of the packet when the packet is ready for transmission. The
semantics of the Hop_Lim ﬁeld depend on the lower-layer protocol that IOAM is encapsulated
into; therefore, its speciﬁc semantics are outside the scope of this memo. The value of this ﬁeld
MUST

 be set to 0xﬀ when the lower level does not have a ﬁeld equivalent to TTL / Hop Limit.

Brockners, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9197

In Situ OAM Data Fields

May 2022

node_id:

3-octet unsigned integer. A node identiﬁer ﬁeld to uniquely identify a node within the IOAM-
Namespace and associated IOAM-Domain. The procedure to allocate, manage, and map the
node_ids is beyond the scope of this document. See
discussion of deployment-related aspects of the node_id.

[IPPM-IOAM-DEPLOYMENT]

 for a

4.4.2.2.  ingress_if_id and egress_if_id Short

The "ingress_if_id and egress_if_id" ﬁeld is a 4-octet ﬁeld that is deﬁned as follows:

 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|     ingress_if_id             |         egress_if_id          |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

ingress_if_id:

2-octet unsigned integer. An interface identiﬁer to record the ingress interface the packet was
received on.

egress_if_id:

2-octet unsigned integer. An interface identiﬁer to record the egress interface the packet is
forwarded out of.

Note that due to the fact that IOAM uses its own IOAM-Namespaces for IOAM-Data-Fields, data
ﬁelds, like interface identiﬁers, can be used in a ﬂexible way to represent system resources that
are associated with ingressing or egressing packets, i.e., ingress_if_id could represent a physical
interface, a virtual or logical interface, or even a queue.

4.4.2.3.  Timestamp Seconds

), NTP

[RFC5905]

The "timestamp seconds" ﬁeld is a 4-octet unsigned integer ﬁeld. It contains the absolute
timestamp in seconds that speciﬁes the time at which the packet was received by the node. This
ﬁeld has three possible formats, based on either the Precision Time Protocol (PTP) (see e.g.,
. The three timestamp formats are speciﬁed in
[RFC8877]
Section 5. In all three cases, the timestamp seconds ﬁeld contains the 32 most signiﬁcant bits of
the timestamp format that is speciﬁed in Section 5. If a node is not capable of populating this
ﬁeld, it assigns the value 0xFFFFFFFF. Note that this is a legitimate value that is valid for 1 second
in approximately 136 years; the analyzer has to correlate several packets or compare the
timestamp value to its own time of day in order to detect the error indication.

, or POSIX

[POSIX]

4.4.2.4.  Timestamp Fraction

The "timestamp fraction" ﬁeld is a 4-octet unsigned integer ﬁeld. Fraction speciﬁes the fractional
portion of the number of seconds since the NTP epoch
which the packet was received by the node. This ﬁeld has three possible formats, based on either
PTP (see e.g.,
, or POSIX
speciﬁed in Section 5. In all three cases, the timestamp fraction ﬁeld contains the 32 least
signiﬁcant bits of the timestamp format that is speciﬁed in Section 5. If a node is not capable of

. The three timestamp formats are

. The ﬁeld speciﬁes the time at

[RFC5905]

[RFC8877]

[RFC8877]

[POSIX]

), NTP

Brockners, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9197

In Situ OAM Data Fields

May 2022

populating this ﬁeld, it assigns the value 0xFFFFFFFF. Note that this is a legitimate value in the
NTP format, valid for approximately 233 picoseconds in every second. If the NTP format is used,
the analyzer has to correlate several packets in order to detect the error indication.

4.4.2.5.  Transit Delay
The "transit delay" ﬁeld is a 4-octet unsigned integer in the range 0 to 231-1. It is the time in
nanoseconds the packet spent in the transit node. This can serve as an indication of the queuing
delay at the node. If the transit delay exceeds 231-1 nanoseconds, then the top bit 'O' is set to
indicate overﬂow and value set to 0x80000000. When this ﬁeld is part of the data ﬁeld but a node
populating the ﬁeld is not able to ﬁll it, the ﬁeld position in the ﬁeld
0xFFFFFFFF to mean not populated.

 be ﬁlled with value

MUST

 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|O|                     transit delay                           |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

4.4.2.6.  Namespace-Speciﬁc Data

The "namespace-speciﬁc data" ﬁeld is a 4-octet ﬁeld that can be used by the node to add IOAM-
Namespace-speciﬁc data. This represents a "free-format" 4-octet bit ﬁeld with its semantics
deﬁned in the context of a speciﬁc IOAM-Namespace.

 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                    namespace-specific data                    |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

4.4.2.7.  Queue Depth

The "queue depth" ﬁeld is a 4-octet unsigned integer ﬁeld. This ﬁeld indicates the current length of
the egress interface queue of the interface from where the packet is forwarded out. The queue
depth is expressed as the current amount of memory buﬀers used by the queue (a packet could
consume one or more memory buﬀers, depending on its size).

 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                       queue depth                             |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

4.4.2.8.  Checksum Complement

The "Checksum Complement" ﬁeld is a 4-octet node data that contains the Checksum
Complement value. The Checksum Complement is useful when IOAM is transported over
encapsulations that make use of a UDP transport, such as VXLAN-GPE or Geneve. Without the
Checksum Complement, nodes adding IOAM node data update the UDP Checksum ﬁeld following
the recommendation of the encapsulation protocols. When the Checksum Complement is

Brockners, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9197

In Situ OAM Data Fields

May 2022

present, an IOAM encapsulating node or IOAM transit node adding node data
one of the following two alternatives in order to maintain the correctness of the UDP Checksum
value:

 carry out

MUST

1.

recompute the UDP Checksum ﬁeld or

2.

use the Checksum Complement to make a checksum-neutral update in the UDP payload; the
Checksum Complement is assigned a value that complements the rest of the node data ﬁelds
that were added by the current node, causing the existing UDP Checksum ﬁeld to remain
correct.

IOAM decapsulating nodes
 recompute the UDP Checksum ﬁeld, since they do not know
whether previous hops modiﬁed the UDP Checksum ﬁeld or the Checksum Complement ﬁeld.

MUST

Checksum Complement ﬁelds are used in a similar manner in

[RFC7820]

 and

[RFC7821]

.

 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                   Checksum Complement                         |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

4.4.2.9.  Hop_Lim and node_id Wide

The "Hop_Lim and node_id wide" ﬁeld is an 8-octet ﬁeld deﬁned as follows:

 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   Hop_Lim     |              node_id                          ~
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
~                         node_id (contd)                       |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Hop_Lim:

1-octet unsigned integer. See Section 4.4.2.1 for the deﬁnition of the ﬁeld.

node_id:

7-octet unsigned integer. It is a node identiﬁer ﬁeld to uniquely identify a node within the
IOAM-Namespace and associated IOAM-Domain. The procedure to allocate, manage, and map
the node_ids is beyond the scope of this document.

4.4.2.10.  ingress_if_id and egress_if_id Wide

The "ingress_if_id and egress_if_id wide" ﬁeld is an 8-octet ﬁeld, which is deﬁned as follows:

 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                       ingress_if_id                           |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                       egress_if_id                            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Brockners, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9197

In Situ OAM Data Fields

May 2022

ingress_if_id:

4-octet unsigned integer. It is an interface identiﬁer to record the ingress interface the packet
was received on.

egress_if_id:

4-octet unsigned integer. It is an interface identiﬁer to record the egress interface the packet is
forwarded out of.

4.4.2.11.  Namespace-Speciﬁc Data Wide

The "namespace-speciﬁc data wide" ﬁeld is an 8-octet ﬁeld that can be used by the node to add
IOAM-Namespace-speciﬁc data. This represents a "free-format" 8-octet bit ﬁeld with its semantics
deﬁned in the context of a speciﬁc IOAM-Namespace.

 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                    namespace-specific data                    ~
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
~                namespace-specific data (contd)                |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

4.4.2.12.  Buﬀer Occupancy

The "buﬀer occupancy" ﬁeld is a 4-octet unsigned integer ﬁeld. This ﬁeld indicates the current
status of the occupancy of the common buﬀer pool used by a set of queues. The units of this ﬁeld
are implementation speciﬁc. Hence, the units are interpreted within the context of an IOAM-
Namespace and/or node identiﬁer if used. The authors acknowledge that, in some operational
cases, there is a need for the units to be consistent across a packet path through the network;
hence, it is recommended for implementations to use standard units, such as bytes.

 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                       buffer occupancy                        |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

4.4.2.13.  Opaque State Snapshot

The "Opaque State Snapshot" ﬁeld is a variable-length ﬁeld and follows the ﬁxed-length IOAM-
Data-Fields deﬁned above. It allows the network element to store an arbitrary state in the node
data ﬁeld without a predeﬁned schema. The schema is to be deﬁned within the context of an
IOAM-Namespace. The schema needs to be made known to the analyzer by some out-of-band
mechanism. The speciﬁcation of this mechanism is beyond the scope of this document. A 24-bit
"Schema ID" ﬁeld, interpreted within the context of an IOAM-Namespace, indicates which
particular schema is used and has to be conﬁgured on the network element by the operator.

Brockners, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9197

In Situ OAM Data Fields

May 2022

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   Length      |                     Schema ID                 |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                                                               |
|                                                               |
|                        Opaque data                            |
~                                                               ~
.                                                               .
.                                                               .
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Length:

1-octet unsigned integer. It is the length in multiples of 4 octets of the Opaque data ﬁeld that
follows Schema ID.

Schema ID:

3-octet unsigned integer identifying the schema of Opaque data.

Opaque data:

Variable-length ﬁeld. This ﬁeld is interpreted as speciﬁed by the schema identiﬁed by the
Schema ID.

When this ﬁeld is part of the data ﬁeld, but a node populating the ﬁeld has no opaque state data to
report, the Length
schema.

 be set to 0xFFFFFF to mean no

 be set to 0 and the Schema ID

MUST

MUST

4.4.3.  Examples of IOAM Node Data

The format used for the entries in a packet's "node data list" array can vary from packet to packet
and deployment to deployment. Some deployments might only be interested in recording the
node identiﬁers, whereas others might be interested in recording node identiﬁers and
timestamps. This section provides example entries of the "node data list" array.

0xD40000:

If the IOAM Trace-Type is 0xD40000 (0b110101000000000000000000), then the format

of node data is:

 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   Hop_Lim     |              node_id                          |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|     ingress_if_id             |         egress_if_id          |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                     timestamp fraction                        |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                    namespace-specific data                    |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

0xC00000:

If the IOAM Trace-Type is 0xC00000 (0b110000000000000000000000), then the format is:

Brockners, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9197

In Situ OAM Data Fields

May 2022

 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   Hop_Lim     |              node_id                          |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|     ingress_if_id             |         egress_if_id          |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

0x900000:

If the IOAM Trace-Type is 0x900000 (0b100100000000000000000000), then the format is:

 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   Hop_Lim     |              node_id                          |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                   timestamp fraction                          |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

0x840000:

If the IOAM Trace-Type is 0x840000 (0b100001000000000000000000), then the format is:

 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   Hop_Lim     |              node_id                          |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                    namespace-specific data                    |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

0x940000:

If the IOAM Trace-Type is 0x940000 (0b100101000000000000000000), then the format is:

 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   Hop_Lim     |              node_id                          |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                    timestamp fraction                         |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                    namespace-specific data                    |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

0x308002:

If the IOAM Trace-Type is 0x308002 (0b001100001000000000000010), then the format is:

Brockners, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9197

In Situ OAM Data Fields

May 2022

 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                      timestamp seconds                        |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                    timestamp fraction                         |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   Hop_Lim     |              node_id                          |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                         node_id(contd)                        |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   Length      |                     Schema ID                 |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                                                               |
|                                                               |
|                        Opaque data                            |
~                                                               ~
.                                                               .
.                                                               .
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

4.5.  IOAM Proof of Transit Option-Type

The IOAM Proof of Transit Option-Type is used to support path or service function chain
 veriﬁcation use cases, i.e., prove that traﬃc transited a deﬁned path. While the details
[RFC7665]
on how the IOAM data for the Proof of Transit Option-Type is processed at IOAM encapsulating,
decapsulating, and transit nodes are outside the scope of the document, Proof of Transit
approaches share the need to uniquely identify a packet, as well as iteratively operate on a set of
information that is handed from node to node. Correspondingly, two pieces of information are
added as IOAM-Data-Fields to the packet:

PktID:

unique identiﬁer for the packet

Cumulative:

information that is handed from node to node and updated by every node according to a
veriﬁcation algorithm

The IOAM Proof of Transit Option-Type consist of a ﬁxed-size "IOAM Proof of Transit Option
header" and "IOAM Proof of Transit Option data ﬁelds":

IOAM Proof of Transit Option header:

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|       Namespace-ID            |IOAM POT-Type  | IOAM POT flags|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

IOAM Proof of Transit Option-Type IOAM-Data-Fields

MUST

 be aligned by 4 octets:

Brockners, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9197

In Situ OAM Data Fields

May 2022

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|       POT Option data field determined by IOAM POT-Type       |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Namespace-ID:

16-bit identiﬁer of an IOAM-Namespace. The Namespace-ID value of 0x0000 is deﬁned as the
"Default-Namespace-ID" (see Section 4.3) and
 be known to all the nodes implementing
IOAM. For any other Namespace-ID value that does not match any Namespace-ID the node is
conﬁgured to operate on, the node

 change the contents of the IOAM-Data-Fields.

MUST NOT

MUST

IOAM POT-Type:

8-bit identiﬁer of a particular POT variant that speciﬁes the POT data that is included. This
document deﬁnes IOAM POT-Type 0:

0:

POT data is a 16-octet ﬁeld to carry data associated to POT procedures.

If a node receives an IOAM POT-Type value that it does not understand, the node
change, add to, or remove the contents of the IOAM-Data-Fields.

MUST NOT

IOAM POT ﬂags:

8 bits. This document does not deﬁne any ﬂags. Bits 0-7 are available for assignment (see
Section 7.5). Bits that have not been assigned
ignored upon receipt.

 be set to zero upon transmission and be

MUST

POT Option data:

Variable-length ﬁeld. The type of which is determined by the IOAM POT-Type.

4.5.1.  IOAM Proof of Transit Type 0

IOAM Proof of Transit Option of IOAM POT-Type 0:

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|        Namespace-ID           |IOAM POT-Type=0|R R R R R R R R|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+<-+
|                        PktID                                  |  |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+  P
|                        PktID (contd)                          |  O
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+  T
|                        Cumulative                             |  |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+  |
|                        Cumulative (contd)                     |  |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+<-+

Namespace-ID:

16-bit identiﬁer of an IOAM-Namespace (see Section 4.3 above).

Brockners, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9197

In Situ OAM Data Fields

May 2022

IOAM POT-Type:

8-bit identiﬁer of a particular POT variant that speciﬁes the POT data that is included (see
Section 4.5 above). For this case here, IOAM POT-Type is set to the value 0.

Bit 0-7:

Undeﬁned (see Section 4.5 above).

PktID:

64-bit packet identiﬁer.

Cumulative:

64-bit Cumulative that is updated at speciﬁc nodes by processing per packet PktID ﬁeld and
conﬁgured parameters.

Note: Larger or smaller sizes of "PktID" and "Cumulative" data are feasible and could
be required for certain deployments, e.g., in case of space constraints in the
encapsulation protocols used. Future documents could introduce diﬀerent sizes of
data for "Proof of Transit".

4.6.  IOAM Edge-to-Edge Option-Type

The IOAM Edge-to-Edge Option-Type carries data that is added by the IOAM encapsulating node
and interpreted by the IOAM decapsulating node. The IOAM transit nodes
 process the data
but

 modify it.

MUST NOT

MAY

The IOAM Edge-to-Edge Option-Type consist of a ﬁxed-size "IOAM Edge-to-Edge Option-Type
header" and "IOAM Edge-to-Edge Option-Type data ﬁelds":

IOAM Edge-to-Edge Option-Type header:

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|        Namespace-ID           |         IOAM E2E-Type         |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

The IOAM Edge-to-Edge Option-Type IOAM-Data-Fields

MUST

 be aligned by 4 octets:

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|       E2E Option data field determined by IOAM-E2E-Type       |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Brockners, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9197

In Situ OAM Data Fields

May 2022

Namespace-ID:

16-bit identiﬁer of an IOAM-Namespace. The Namespace-ID value of 0x0000 is deﬁned as the
"Default-Namespace-ID" (see Section 4.3) and
 be known to all the nodes implementing
IOAM. For any other Namespace-ID value that does not match any Namespace-ID the node is
conﬁgured to operate on, the node

 change the contents of the IOAM-Data-Fields.

MUST NOT

MUST

IOAM-E2E-Type:

16-bit identiﬁer that speciﬁes which data types are used in the E2E Option data. The IOAM-E2E-
Type value is a bit ﬁeld. The order of packing the E2E Option data ﬁeld elements follows the bit
order of the IOAM E2E-Type ﬁeld as follows:

Bit 0

Bit 1

Bit 2

Bit 3

Most signiﬁcant bit. When set, it indicates the presence of a 64-bit sequence number
added to a speciﬁc "packet group" that is used to detect packet loss, packet
reordering, or packet duplication within the group. The "packet group" is deployment
dependent and deﬁned at the IOAM encapsulating node, e.g., by n-tuple-based
classiﬁcation of packets. When this bit is set, "Bit 1" (for a 32-bit sequence number,
see below)

 be zero.

MUST

When set, it indicates the presence of a 32-bit sequence number added to a speciﬁc
"packet group" that is used to detect packet loss, packet reordering, or packet
duplication within that group. The "packet group" is deployment dependent and
deﬁned at the IOAM encapsulating node, e.g., by n-tuple-based classiﬁcation of
packets. When this bit is set, "Bit 0" (for a 64-bit sequence number, see above)
be zero.

MUST

When set, it indicates the presence of timestamp seconds, representing the time at
which the packet entered the IOAM-Domain. Within the IOAM encapsulating node,
the time that the timestamp is retrieved can depend on the implementation. Some
possibilities are 1) the time at which the packet was received by the node, 2) the time
at which the packet was transmitted by the node, or 3) when a tunnel encapsulation
is used, the point at which the packet is encapsulated into the tunnel. Each
implementation has to document when the E2E timestamp that is going to be put in
the packet is retrieved. This 4-octet ﬁeld has three possible formats, based on either
PTP (see e.g.,
formats are speciﬁed in Section 5. In all three cases, the timestamp seconds ﬁeld
contains the 32 most signiﬁcant bits of the timestamp format that is speciﬁed in
Section 5. If a node is not capable of populating this ﬁeld, it assigns the value
0xFFFFFFFF. Note that this is a legitimate value that is valid for 1 second in
approximately 136 years; the analyzer has to correlate several packets or compare
the timestamp value to its own time of day in order to detect the error indication.

. The three timestamp

, or POSIX

[RFC5905]

[RFC8877]

[POSIX]

), NTP

When set, it indicates the presence of timestamp fraction, representing the time at
which the packet entered the IOAM-Domain. This 4-octet ﬁeld has three possible
formats, based on either PTP (see e.g.,
The three timestamp formats are speciﬁed in Section 5. In all three cases, the
timestamp fraction ﬁeld contains the 32 least signiﬁcant bits of the timestamp
format that is speciﬁed in Section 5. If a node is not capable of populating this ﬁeld, it

, or POSIX

[RFC5905]

[RFC8877]

[POSIX]

), NTP

.

Brockners, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9197

In Situ OAM Data Fields

May 2022

assigns the value 0xFFFFFFFF. Note that this is a legitimate value in the NTP format,
valid for approximately 233 picoseconds in every second. If the NTP format is used,
the analyzer has to correlate several packets in order to detect the error indication.

Bit 4-15

Undeﬁned. An IOAM encapsulating node
upon transmission and ignore them upon receipt.

MUST

 set the value of these bits to zero

E2E Option data:

Variable-length ﬁeld. The type of which is determined by the IOAM E2E-Type.

5.  Timestamp Formats

The IOAM-Data-Fields include a timestamp ﬁeld that is represented in one of three possible
timestamp formats. It is assumed that the management plane is responsible for determining
which timestamp format is used.

5.1.  PTP Truncated Timestamp Format

The Precision Time Protocol (PTP) uses an 80-bit timestamp format. The truncated timestamp
format is a 64-bit ﬁeld, which is the 64 least signiﬁcant bits of the 80-bit PTP timestamp. The PTP
truncated format is speciﬁed in
, and the details are presented below for
the sake of completeness.

Section 4.3 of [RFC8877]

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                            Seconds                            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                          Nanoseconds                          |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Timestamp ﬁeld format:

Seconds:

Speciﬁes the integer portion of the number of seconds since the PTP epoch

Size:

32 bits

Units:

seconds

Nanoseconds:

Speciﬁes the fractional portion of the number of seconds since the PTP epoch

Size:

32 bits

Units:

nanoseconds. The value of this ﬁeld is in the range 0 to (109)-1.

Epoch:

PTP epoch. For details, see e.g.,

[RFC8877]

.

Resolution:

The resolution is 1 nanosecond.

Brockners, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9197

In Situ OAM Data Fields

May 2022

Wraparound:

This time format wraps around every 232 seconds, which is roughly 136 years. The next
wraparound will occur in the year 2106.

Synchronization Aspects:

It is assumed that the nodes that run this protocol are synchronized among themselves. Nodes
 be synchronized to a global reference time. Note that if PTP is used for synchronization,
MAY
the timestamp
measured with respect to the clock of a PTP Grandmaster clock.

 be derived from the PTP-synchronized clock, allowing the timestamp to be

MAY

5.2.  NTP 64-Bit Timestamp Format

The Network Time Protocol (NTP)
uses the NTP timestamp format that is speciﬁed in
presented below for the sake of completeness.

[RFC5905]

 timestamp format is 64 bits long. This speciﬁcation
, and the details are

Section 4.2.1 of [RFC8877]

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                            Seconds                            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                            Fraction                           |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Timestamp ﬁeld format:

Seconds:

speciﬁes the integer portion of the number of seconds since the NTP epoch

Size:

32 bits

Units:

seconds

Fraction:

speciﬁes the fractional portion of the number of seconds since the NTP epoch

Size:

32 bits

Units:

the unit is 2(-32) seconds, which is roughly equal to 233 picoseconds.

Epoch:

NTP epoch. For details, see

[RFC5905]

.

Resolution:

The resolution is 2(-32) seconds.

Wraparound:

This time format wraps around every 232 seconds, which is roughly 136 years. The next
wraparound will occur in the year 2036.

Brockners, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9197

In Situ OAM Data Fields

May 2022

Synchronization Aspects:

Nodes that use this timestamp format will typically be synchronized to UTC using NTP
[RFC5905]
MAY
timestamp to be measured with respect to the clock of an NTP server.

 be derived from the NTP-synchronized clock, allowing the

. Thus, the timestamp

5.3.  POSIX-Based Timestamp Format

This timestamp format is based on the POSIX time format
the timestamp format used in this document is presented below.

[POSIX]

. The detailed speciﬁcation of

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                            Seconds                            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                          Microseconds                         |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Timestamp ﬁeld format:

Seconds:

speciﬁes the integer portion of the number of seconds since the POSIX epoch

Size:

32 bits

Units:

seconds

Microseconds:

speciﬁes the fractional portion of the number of seconds since the POSIX

epoch

Size:

32 bits

Units:

the unit is microseconds. The value of this ﬁeld is in the range 0 to (106)-1.

Epoch:

POSIX epoch. For details, see

[POSIX]

, Appendix A.4.16.

Resolution:

The resolution is 1 microsecond.

Wraparound:

This time format wraps around every 232 seconds, which is roughly 136 years. The next
wraparound will occur in the year 2106.

Synchronization Aspects:

It is assumed that nodes that use this timestamp format run the Linux operating system and
 be synchronized to UTC using a
hence use the POSIX time. In some cases, nodes
synchronization mechanism that is outside the scope of this document, such as NTP
Thus, the timestamp
 be derived from the NTP-synchronized clock, allowing the
timestamp to be measured with respect to the clock of an NTP server.

MAY

MAY

[RFC5905]

.

Brockners, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 9197

In Situ OAM Data Fields

May 2022

6.  IOAM Data Export

IOAM nodes collect information for packets traversing a domain that supports IOAM. IOAM
decapsulating nodes, as well as IOAM transit nodes, can choose to retrieve IOAM information
from the packet, process the information further, and export the information using e.g., IP Flow
Information Export (IPFIX). The mechanisms and associated data formats for exporting IOAM
data are outside the scope of this document.

A way to perform raw data export of IOAM data using IPFIX is discussed in
RAWEXPORT]

.

[IPPM-IOAM-

7.  IANA Considerations

IANA has deﬁned a registry group named "In Situ OAM (IOAM)".

This group includes the following registries:

IOAM Option-Type

IOAM Trace-Type

IOAM Trace-Flags

IOAM POT-Type

IOAM POT-Flags

IOAM E2E-Type

IOAM Namespace-ID

The subsequent subsections detail the registries therein contained.

7.1.  IOAM Option-Type Registry

This registry deﬁnes 128 code points for the IOAM Option-Type ﬁeld for identifying IOAM-Option-
Types, as explained in Section 4. The following code points are deﬁned in this document:

0:

1:

2:

3:

IOAM Pre-allocated Trace Option-Type

IOAM Incremental Trace Option-Type

IOAM POT Option-Type

IOAM E2E Option-Type

Code points 4-127 are available for assignment via the "IETF Review" process, as per

[RFC8126]

.

New registration requests

MUST

 use the following template:

Brockners, et al.

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 9197

In Situ OAM Data Fields

May 2022

Name:

name of the newly registered Option-Type

Code point:

desired value of the requested code point

Description:

brief description of the newly registered Option-Type

Reference:

reference to the document that deﬁnes the new Option-Type

The evaluation of a new registration request
MUST
Option-Type includes an IOAM-Namespace ﬁeld and that the IOAM-Namespace ﬁeld is the ﬁrst
ﬁeld in the newly deﬁned header of the new Option-Type.

 also include checking whether the new IOAM-

7.2.  IOAM Trace-Type Registry

This registry deﬁnes code points for each bit in the 24-bit IOAM Trace-Type ﬁeld for the Pre-
allocated Trace Option-Type and Incremental Trace Option-Type deﬁned in Section 4.4. Bits 0-11
are deﬁned in this document in Paragraph 5 of Section 4.4.1:

Bit 0:

hop_Lim and node_id in short format

Bit 1:

ingress_if_id and egress_if_id in short format

Bit 2:

timestamp seconds

Bit 3:

timestamp fraction

Bit 4:

transit delay

Bit 5:

namespace-speciﬁc data in short format

Bit 6:

queue depth

Bit 7:

checksum complement

Bit 8:

hop_Lim and node_id in wide format

Bit 9:

ingress_if_id and egress_if_id in wide format

Bit 10:

namespace-speciﬁc data in wide format

Bit 11:

buﬀer occupancy

Bit 22:

variable-length Opaque State Snapshot

Bit 23:

reserved

Bits 12-21 are available for assignment via the "IETF Review" process, as per

[RFC8126]

.

New registration requests

MUST

 use the following template:

Bit:

desired bit to be allocated in the 24-bit IOAM Trace Option-Type ﬁeld for the Pre-allocated

Trace Option-Type and Incremental Trace Option-Type

Brockners, et al.

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 9197

In Situ OAM Data Fields

May 2022

Description:

brief description of the newly registered bit

Reference:

reference to the document that deﬁnes the new bit

7.3.  IOAM Trace-Flags Registry

This registry deﬁnes code points for each bit in the 4-bit ﬂags for the Pre-allocated Trace-Option
and Incremental Trace-Option deﬁned in Section 4.4. The meaning of Bit 0 (the most signiﬁcant
bit) for trace ﬂags is deﬁned in this document in Paragraph 3 of Section 4.4.1:

Bit 0:

"Overﬂow" (O-bit)

Bits 1-3 are available for assignment via the "IETF Review" process, as per

[RFC8126]

.

New registration requests

MUST

 use the following template:

Bit:

desired bit to be allocated in the 8-bit ﬂags ﬁeld of the Pre-allocated Trace Option-Type and

Incremental Trace Option-Type

Description:

brief description of the newly registered bit

Reference:

reference to the document that deﬁnes the new bit

7.4.  IOAM POT-Type Registry

This registry deﬁnes 256 code points to deﬁne the IOAM POT-Type for the IOAM Proof of Transit
Option (Section 4.5). The code point value 0 is deﬁned in this document:

0:

16-Octet POT data

Code points 1-255 are available for assignment via the "IETF Review" process, as per

[RFC8126]

.

New registration requests

MUST

 use the following template:

Name:

name of the newly registered POT-Type

Code point:

desired value of the requested code point

Description:

brief description of the newly registered POT-Type

Reference:

reference to the document that deﬁnes the new POT-Type

7.5.  IOAM POT-Flags Registry

This registry deﬁnes code points for each bit in the 8-bit ﬂags for the IOAM POT Option-Type
deﬁned in Section 4.5.

Bits 0-7 are available for assignment via the "IETF Review" process, as per

[RFC8126]

.

Brockners, et al.

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 9197

In Situ OAM Data Fields

May 2022

New registration requests

MUST

 use the following template:

Bit:

desired bit to be allocated in the 8-bit ﬂags ﬁeld of the IOAM POT Option-Type

Description:

brief description of the newly registered bit

Reference:

reference to the document that deﬁnes the new bit

7.6.  IOAM E2E-Type Registry

This registry deﬁnes code points for each bit in the 16-bit IOAM E2E-Type ﬁeld for the IOAM E2E
Option (Section 4.6). Bits 0-3 are deﬁned in this document:

Bit 0:

64-bit sequence number

Bit 1:

32-bit sequence number

Bit 2:

timestamp seconds

Bit 3:

timestamp fraction

Bits 4-15 are available for assignment via the "IETF Review" process, as per

[RFC8126]

.

New registration requests

MUST

 use the following template:

Bit:

desired bit to be allocated in the 16-bit IOAM E2E-Type ﬁeld

Description:

brief description of the newly registered bit

Reference:

reference to the document that deﬁnes the new bit

7.7.  IOAM Namespace-ID Registry

IANA has set up the "IOAM Namespace-ID" registry that contains 16-bit values and follows the
template for requests shown below. The meaning of 0x0000 is deﬁned in this document. IANA has
reserved the values 0x0001 to 0x7FFF for private use (managed by operators), as speciﬁed in
Section 4.3 of this document. Registry entries for the values 0x8000 to 0xFFFF are to be assigned
.
via the "Expert Review" policy, as per

[RFC8126]

Upon receiving a new allocation request, a designated expert will perform the following:

•

Review whether the request is complete, i.e., the registration template has been ﬁlled in. The
expert will send incomplete requests back to the requester.

•

Check whether the request is neither a duplicate of nor conﬂicting with either an already
existing allocation or a pending allocation. In case of duplicates or conﬂicts, the expert will
ask the requester to update the allocation request accordingly.

•

Solicit feedback from relevant working groups and communities to ensure that the new
allocation request has been properly reviewed and that rough consensus on the request

Brockners, et al.

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 9197

In Situ OAM Data Fields

May 2022

exists. At a minimum, the expert will solicit feedback from the IPPM Working Group by
posting the request to the ippm@ietf.org mailing list. The expert will allow for a 3-week review
period on the mailing lists. If the feedback received from the relevant working groups and
communities within the review period indicates rough consensus on the request, the expert
will approve the request and ask IANA to allocate the new Namespace-ID. In case the expert
senses a lack of consensus from the feedback received, the expert will ask the requester to
engage with the corresponding working groups and communities to further review and reﬁne
the request.

It is intended that any allocation will be accompanied by a published RFC. In order to allow for
the allocation of code points prior to the RFC being approved for publication, the designated
expert can approve allocations once it seems clear that an RFC will be published.

0x0000:

default namespace (known to all IOAM nodes)

0x0001 - 0x7FFF:

reserved for private use

0x8000 - 0xFFFF:

unassigned

New registration requests

MUST

 use the following template:

Name:

name of the newly registered Namespace-ID

Code point:

desired value of the requested Namespace-ID

Description:

brief description of the newly registered Namespace-ID

Reference:

reference to the document that deﬁnes the new Namespace-ID

Status of the registration:

Status can be either "permanent" or "provisional". Namespace-ID

registrations following a successful expert review will have the status "provisional". Once the
RFC that deﬁnes the new Namespace-ID is published, the status is changed to "permanent".

8.  Management and Deployment Considerations

This document deﬁnes the structure and use of IOAM-Data-Fields. This document does not deﬁne
the encapsulation of IOAM-Data-Fields into diﬀerent protocols. Management and deployment
aspects for IOAM have to be considered within the context of the protocol IOAM-Data-Fields are
encapsulated into and, as such, are out of scope for this document. For a discussion of IOAM
deployment, please also refer to
[IPPM-IOAM-DEPLOYMENT]
IOAM deployment and provides best current practices.

, which outlines a framework for

9.  Security Considerations

[RFC7276]

As discussed in
, a successful attack on an OAM protocol in general, and speciﬁcally on
IOAM, can prevent the detection of failures or anomalies or create a false illusion of nonexistent
ones. In particular, these threats are applicable by compromising the integrity of IOAM data,

Brockners, et al.

Standards Track

Page 33

RFC 9197

In Situ OAM Data Fields

May 2022

either by maliciously modifying IOAM options in transit or by injecting packets with maliciously
generated IOAM options. All nodes in the path of an IOAM-carrying packet can perform such an
attack.

The Proof of Transit Option-Type (see Section 4.5) is used for verifying the path of data packets,
i.e., proving that packets transited through a deﬁned set of nodes.

In case an attacker gains access to several nodes in a network and would be able to change the
system software of these nodes, IOAM-Data-Fields could be misused and repurposed for a use
diﬀerent from what is speciﬁed in this document. One type of misuse is the implementation of a
covert channel between network nodes.

From a conﬁdentiality perspective, although IOAM options are not expected to contain user data,
they can be used for network reconnaissance, allowing attackers to collect information about
network paths, performance, queue states, buﬀer occupancy, etc. Moreover, if IOAM data leaks
from the IOAM-Domain, it could enable reconnaissance beyond the scope of the IOAM-Domain.
One possible application of such reconnaissance is to gauge the eﬀectiveness of an ongoing
attack, e.g., if buﬀers and queues are overﬂowing.

IOAM can be used as a means for implementing Denial-of-Service (DoS) attacks or for amplifying
them. For example, a malicious attacker can add an IOAM header to packets in order to consume
the resources of network devices that take part in IOAM or entities that receive, collect, or
analyze the IOAM data. Another example is a packet length attack in which an attacker pushes
headers associated with IOAM-Option-Types into data packets, causing these packets to be
increased beyond the MTU size, resulting in fragmentation or in packet drops. In case POT is
used, an attacker could corrupt the POT data ﬁelds in the packet, resulting in a veriﬁcation failure
of the POT data, even if the packet followed the correct path.

Since IOAM options can include timestamps, if network devices use synchronization protocols,
then any attack on the time protocol
 can compromise the integrity of the timestamp-
related data ﬁelds.

[RFC7384]

At the management plane, attacks can be set up by misconﬁguring or by maliciously conﬁguring
IOAM-enabled nodes in a way that enables other attacks. IOAM conﬁguration should only be
managed by authorized processes or users.

IETF protocols require features to ensure their security. While IOAM-Data-Fields don't represent a
protocol by themselves, the IOAM-Data-Fields add to the protocol that the IOAM-Data-Fields are
encapsulated into. Any speciﬁcation that deﬁnes how IOAM-Data-Fields carried in an
encapsulating protocol
the IOAM-Data-Fields. Cryptographic integrity protection could be achieved through a
mechanism of the encapsulating protocol, or it could incorporate the mechanisms speciﬁed in
[IPPM-IOAM-DATA-INTEGRITY]

 provide for a mechanism for cryptographic integrity protection of

MUST

.

The current document does not deﬁne a speciﬁc IOAM encapsulation. It has to be noted that
some IOAM encapsulation types can introduce speciﬁc security considerations. A speciﬁcation
that deﬁnes an IOAM encapsulation is expected to address the respective encapsulation-speciﬁc
security considerations.

Brockners, et al.

Standards Track

Page 34

RFC 9197

In Situ OAM Data Fields

May 2022

Notably, IOAM is expected to be deployed in limited domains, thus conﬁning the potential attack
vectors to within the limited domain. A limited administrative domain provides the operator with
the means to select, monitor, and control the access of all the network devices, making these
devices trusted by the operator. Indeed, in order to limit the scope of threats mentioned above to
within the current limited domain, the network operator is expected to enforce policies that
prevent IOAM traﬃc from leaking outside of the IOAM-Domain and prevent IOAM data from
outside the domain to be processed and used within the domain.

This document does not deﬁne the data contents of custom ﬁelds, like "Opaque State Snapshot"
and "namespace-speciﬁc data" IOAM-Data-Fields. These custom data ﬁelds will have security
considerations corresponding to their deﬁned data contents that need to be described where
those formats are deﬁned.

IOAM deployments that leverage both IOAM Trace Option-Types, i.e., the Pre-allocated Trace
Option-Type and Incremental Trace Option-Type, can suﬀer from incomplete visibility if the
information gathered via the two Trace Option-Types is not correlated and aggregated
appropriately. If IOAM transit nodes leverage the IOAM-Data-Fields in the packet for further
actions or insights, then IOAM transit nodes that only support one IOAM Trace Option-Type in an
IOAM deployment that leverages both Trace Option-Types have limited visibility and thus can
draw inappropriate conclusions or take wrong actions.

The security considerations of a system that deploys IOAM, much like any system, has to be
reviewed on a per-deployment-scenario basis based on a systems-speciﬁc threat analysis, which
can lead to speciﬁc security solutions that are beyond the scope of the current document.
Speciﬁcally, in an IOAM deployment that is not conﬁned to a single LAN but spans multiple inter-
connected sites (for example, using an overlay network), the inter-site links can be secured (e.g.,
by IPsec) in order to avoid external threats.

IOAM deployment considerations, including approaches to mitigate the above discussed threads
and potential attacks, are outside the scope of this document. IOAM deployment considerations
are discussed in

[IPPM-IOAM-DEPLOYMENT]

.

10.  References

10.1.  Normative References

[POSIX]

[RFC2119]

,

IEEE "IEEE/Open Group 1003.1-2017 - IEEE Standard for Information
Technology--Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX(TM)) Base
Speciﬁcations, Issue 7" IEEE Std 1003.1-2017
.
standards.ieee.org/ieee/1003.1/7101/>

, January 2018,

<https://

,

,

,
Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
.
rfc2119>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

Brockners, et al.

Standards Track

Page 35

RFC 9197

In Situ OAM Data Fields

May 2022

[RFC5905]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

,

W. Kasch "Network Time Protocol
Mills, D. Martin, J., Ed. Burbank, J.
, and
Version 4: Protocol and Algorithms Speciﬁcation" RFC 5905 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5905

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5905>
.

, June 2010,

,
,

,

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>
.

, and

,

,

,

,

, June

,
,
Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
.
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

10.2.  Informative References

[IPPM-IOAM-DATA-INTEGRITY]

Brockners, F. Bhandari, S. Mizrahi, T.
, and
"Integrity of In-situ OAM Data Fields" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-
,
,
ietf-ippm-ioam-data-integrity-01
.
html/draft-ietf-ippm-ioam-data-integrity-01>

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/

, 2 March 2022,

J. Iurman

,

,

,

[IPPM-IOAM-DEPLOYMENT]

Brockners, F. Bhandari, S. Bernier, D.

,

,

, and

T. Mizrahi "In-situ

,

,
OAM Deployment" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-ippm-ioam-
, 11 April 2022,
deployment-01
.
ippm-ioam-deployment-01>

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-

,

[IPPM-IOAM-RAWEXPORT]

,

Spiegel, M. Brockners, F. Bhandari, S.

R. Sivakolundu "In-situ
,
OAM raw data export with IPFIX" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-spiegel-
, 21 February 2022,
ippm-ioam-rawexport-06
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/
.
html/draft-spiegel-ippm-ioam-rawexport-06>

, and
,

,

,

[IPV6-RECORD-ROUTE]

Kitamura, H. "Record Route for IPv6 (RR6) Hop-by-Hop Option

,

,

Extension" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-kitamura-ipv6-record-
route-00
.
kitamura-ipv6-record-route-00>

,
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-

, 17 November 2000,

[NVO3-VXLAN-GPE]

,
Maino, F., Ed. Kreeger, L., Ed.

Extension for VXLAN (VXLAN-GPE)" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-
nvo3-vxlan-gpe-12
.
draft-ietf-nvo3-vxlan-gpe-12>

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/

, 22 September 2021,

, and
,

U. Elzur, Ed. "Generic Protocol
,

,

[RFC7276]

[RFC7384]

,

Mizrahi, T. Sprecher, N. Bellagamba, E.
Y. Weingarten "An Overview of
Operations, Administration, and Maintenance (OAM) Tools" RFC 7276 DOI
10.17487/RFC7276

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7276>

, June 2014,

, and

,

,

,

,
Mizrahi, T. "Security Requirements of Time Protocols in Packet Switched
,
,
Networks" RFC 7384 DOI 10.17487/RFC7384
.
editor.org/info/rfc7384>

, October 2014,

<https://www.rfc-

Brockners, et al.

Standards Track

Page 36

RFC 9197

In Situ OAM Data Fields

May 2022

[RFC7665]

[RFC7799]

[RFC7820]

 and

Halpern, J., Ed.
Architecture" RFC 7665 DOI 10.17487/RFC7665
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc7665>
.

,

C. Pignataro, Ed. "Service Function Chaining (SFC)

, October 2015,

<https://www.rfc-

Morton, A. "Active and Passive Metrics and Methods (with Hybrid Types In-
,
Between)" RFC 7799 DOI 10.17487/RFC7799
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc7799>
.

<https://www.rfc-

, May 2016,

,

Mizrahi, T. "UDP Checksum Complement in the One-Way Active Measurement
Protocol (OWAMP) and Two-Way Active Measurement Protocol (TWAMP)" RFC
7820 DOI 10.17487/RFC7820
,
rfc7820>
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, March 2016,

,

[RFC7821]

,

Mizrahi, T. "UDP Checksum Complement in the Network Time Protocol (NTP)"
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 7821 DOI 10.17487/RFC7821
, March 2016,
,
rfc7821>
.

[RFC8300]

[RFC8799]

[RFC8877]

[RFC8926]

Quinn, P., Ed. Elzur, U., Ed.
,
(NSH)" RFC 8300 DOI 10.17487/RFC8300
editor.org/info/rfc8300>
.

, and

,

,

,
, January 2018,

C. Pignataro, Ed. "Network Service Header

<https://www.rfc-

Carpenter, B.
DOI 10.17487/RFC8799

 and

B. Liu "Limited Domains and Internet Protocols" RFC 8799
,

,

,

, July 2020,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8799>
.

Mizrahi, T. Fabini, J.
,
, and
Timestamps" RFC 8877 DOI 10.17487/RFC8877
,
editor.org/info/rfc8877>
.

,

,

A. Morton "Guidelines for Deﬁning Packet

, September 2020,

<https://www.rfc-

Gross, J., Ed. Ganga, I., Ed.
,
, and
Virtualization Encapsulation" RFC 8926 DOI 10.17487/RFC8926
,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8926>
.

T. Sridhar, Ed. "Geneve: Generic Network

,

, November 2020,

Acknowledgements

The authors would like to thank
Karthik Babu Harichandra Babu Akshaya Nadahalli LJ Wobker Erik Nordmark Vengada Prasad
Govindan Andrew Yourtchenko Aviv Kﬁr Tianran Zhou Zhenbin (Robin)
the comments and advice.

Éric Vyncke Nalini Elkins Srihari Raghavan Ranganathan T S
,
,
,
,

,
Greg Mirsky

, and

 for

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

This document leverages and builds on top of several concepts described in
ROUTE]
and people involved in writing it.

. The authors would like to acknowledge the work done by the author

[IPV6-RECORD-

Hiroshi Kitamura

Joe Clarke Al Morton Tom Herbert Carlos J. Bernardos Haoyu Song Mickey

The authors would like to gracefully acknowledge useful review and insightful comments
received from
,
,
Spiegel Roman Danyliw Benjamin Kaduk Murray S. Kucherawy Ian Swett Martin Duke
Francesca Palombini Lars Eggert Alvaro Retana Erik Kline Robert Wilton Zaheduzzaman
Sarker Dan Romascanu

.
Barak Gafni

, and

,
,

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Brockners, et al.

Standards Track

Page 37

RFC 9197

In Situ OAM Data Fields

May 2022

Contributors

This document was the collective eﬀort of several authors. The text and content were contributed
by the editors and the coauthors listed below.

Carlos Pignataro
Cisco Systems, Inc.
Research Triangle Park
7200-11 Kit Creek Road
NC 27709
United States of America
Email:

 cpignata@cisco.com

Mickey Spiegel
Barefoot Networks, an Intel company
101 Innovation Drive
San Jose CA 95134-1941
United States of America
Email:

 mickey.spiegel@intel.com

,

Barak Gafni
Nvidia
Suite 100
350 Oakmead Parkway
Sunnyvale CA 94085
,
United States of America
Email:

 gbarak@nvidia.com

Jennifer Lemon
Broadcom
270 Innovation Drive
San Jose CA 95134
,
United States of America
Email:

 jennifer.lemon@broadcom.com

Hannes Gredler
RtBrick Inc.
Email:

 hannes@rtbrick.com

John Leddy
United States of America
Email:

 john@leddy.net

Brockners, et al.

Standards Track

Page 38

RFC 9197

In Situ OAM Data Fields

May 2022

Stephen Youell
JP Morgan Chase
25 Bank Street
London
E14 5JP
United Kingdom
Email:

 stephen.youell@jpmorgan.com

David Mozes
Email:

 mosesster@gmail.com

Petr Lapukhov
Facebook
1 Hacker Way
Menlo Park CA 94025
,
United States of America
Email:

 petr@fb.com

Remy Chang
Barefoot Networks, an Intel company
101 Innovation Drive
San Jose CA 95134-1941
United States of America
Email:

 remy.chang@intel.com

,

Daniel Bernier
Bell Canada
Canada
Email:

 daniel.bernier@bell.ca

Authors' Addresses

editor
)

Frank Brockners (
Cisco Systems, Inc.
3rd Floor
Nordhein-Westfalen
Hansaallee 249
40549 Duesseldorf
Germany
Email:

 fbrockne@cisco.com

Brockners, et al.

Standards Track

Page 39

RFC 9197

In Situ OAM Data Fields

May 2022

editor
)

Shwetha Bhandari (
Thoughtspot
3rd Floor
Indiqube Orion
Garden Layout
HSR Layout
24th Main Rd
Bangalore 560 102
Karnataka
India
Email:

 shwetha.bhandari@thoughtspot.com

editor
)

Tal Mizrahi (
Huawei
8-2 Matam
Haifa 3190501
Israel
Email:

 tal.mizrahi.phd@gmail.com

Brockners, et al.

Standards Track

Page 40

