Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9241
Standards Track
July 2022
2070-1721
J. Seedorf
HFT Stuttgart

Y. Yang
Yale University

K. Ma
Ericsson

J. Peterson
NeuStar

J. Zhang
Tongji University

RFC 9241
Content Delivery Network Interconnection (CDNI)
Footprint and Capabilities Advertisement Using
Application-Layer Traﬃc Optimization (ALTO)

Abstract

The Content Delivery Networks Interconnection (CDNI) framework in RFC 6707 deﬁnes a set of
protocols to interconnect CDNs to achieve multiple goals, including extending the reach of a
given CDN. A CDNI Request Routing Footprint & Capabilities Advertisement interface (FCI) is
needed to achieve the goals of a CDNI. RFC 8008 deﬁnes the FCI semantics and provides guidelines
on the FCI protocol, but the exact protocol is not speciﬁed. This document deﬁnes a new
Application-Layer Traﬃc Optimization (ALTO) service, called "CDNI Advertisement Service", that
provides an implementation of the FCI, following the guidelines deﬁned in RFC 8008.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9241
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Seedorf, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9241

CDNI FCI Using ALTO

July 2022

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology and Background

2.1.  Terminology

2.2.  Semantics of FCI Advertisement

2.3.  ALTO Background and Beneﬁts

3.  CDNI Advertisement Service

3.1.  Media Type

3.2.  HTTP Method

3.3.  Accept Input Parameters

3.4.  Capabilities

3.5.  Uses

3.6.  Response

3.7.  Examples

3.7.1.  IRD

3.7.2.  A Basic Example

3.7.3.  Incremental Updates

4.  CDNI Advertisement Service Using ALTO Network Map

4.1.  Network Map Footprint Type: altopid

4.2.  Examples

4.2.1.  ALTO Network Map for CDNI Advertisements

4.2.2.  ALTO PID Footprints in CDNI Advertisements

4.2.3.  Incremental Updates

5.  Filtered CDNI Advertisement Using CDNI Capabilities

5.1.  Media Type

Seedorf, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9241

CDNI FCI Using ALTO

July 2022

5.2.  HTTP Method

5.3.  Accept Input Parameters

5.4.  Capabilities

5.5.  Uses

5.6.  Response

5.7.  Examples

5.7.1.  A Basic Example

5.7.2.  Incremental Updates

6.  Query Footprint Properties Using ALTO Property Map Service

6.1.  Representing Footprint Objects as Property Map Entities

6.1.1.  ASN Domain

6.1.2.  COUNTRYCODE Domain

6.2.  Representing CDNI Capabilities as Property Map Entity Properties

6.2.1.  Deﬁning Information Resource Media Type for Property Type cdni-capabilities

6.2.2.  Intended Semantics of Property Type cdni-capabilities

6.3.  Examples

6.3.1.  Property Map

6.3.2.  Filtered Property Map

6.3.3.  Incremental Updates

7.  IANA Considerations

7.1.  application/alto-cdni+json Media Type

7.2.  application/alto-cdniﬁlter+json Media Type

7.3.  CDNI Metadata Footprint Types Registry

7.4.  ALTO Entity Domain Types Registry

7.5.  ALTO Entity Property Types Registry

8.  Security Considerations

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Seedorf, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9241

CDNI FCI Using ALTO

July 2022

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

The ability to interconnect multiple content delivery networks (CDNs) has many beneﬁts,
including increased coverage, capability, and reliability. The Content Delivery Networks
Interconnection (CDNI) framework
the CDNI Request Routing Interface, (2) the CDNI Metadata Interface, (3) the CDNI Logging
Interface, and (4) the CDNI Control Interface.

 deﬁnes four interfaces to interconnect CDNs: (1)

[RFC6707]

Among these four interfaces, the CDNI Request Routing Interface provides key functions, as
speciﬁed in

[RFC6707]

:

The CDNI Request Routing interface enables a Request Routing function in an Upstream
CDN to query a Request Routing function in a Downstream CDN to determine if the
Downstream CDN is able (and willing) to accept the delegated Content Request. It also
allows the Downstream CDN to control what should be returned to the User Agent in the
redirection message by the upstream Request Routing function.

At a high level, therefore, the scope of the CDNI Request Routing Interface contains two main
tasks: (1) determining if the dCDN (downstream CDN) is willing to accept a delegated Content
Request and (2) redirecting the Content Request coming from a uCDN (upstream CDN) to the
proper entry point or entity in the dCDN.

Correspondingly, the Request Routing Interface is broadly divided into two functionalities: (1) the
CDNI Footprint & Capabilities Advertisement interface (FCI) deﬁned in
CDNI Request Routing Redirection interface (RI) deﬁned in
the ﬁrst functionality (CDNI FCI).

. This document focuses on

 and (2) the

[RFC8008]

[RFC7975]

Speciﬁcally, CDNI FCI allows both an Advertisement from a dCDN to a uCDN (push) and a query
from a uCDN to a dCDN (pull) so that the uCDN knows whether it can redirect a particular user
request to that dCDN.

A key component in deﬁning the CDNI FCI is deﬁning the objects that describe the footprints and
capabilities of a dCDN. Such objects are already speciﬁed in
protocol is deﬁned to transport and update such objects between a uCDN and a dCDN.

Section 5 of [RFC8008]

. However, no

To deﬁne such a protocol, this document speciﬁes an extension of the Application-Layer Traﬃc
Optimization (ALTO) Protocol
Advertisement Service".

 by introducing a new ALTO service called "CDNI

[RFC7285]

Section 2.3 discusses the beneﬁts in using ALTO as a transport protocol.

Seedorf, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9241

CDNI FCI Using ALTO

July 2022

2.  Terminology and Background

", "
The key words "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
"
", "
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

The design of CDNI FCI transport using ALTO assumes an understanding of both FCI semantics
and ALTO. Hence, this document starts with a non-normative review of both.

2.1.  Terminology

The document uses the CDNI terms deﬁned in
document uses the ALTO terms deﬁned in
following abbreviations:

[RFC6707] [RFC8006]
,
[RFC9240]
 and

[RFC7285]

[RFC8008]

, and
. Also, the
. This document uses the

ALTO:

Application-Layer Traﬃc Optimization

ASN:

Autonomous System Number

CDN:

Content Delivery Network

CDNI:

CDN Interconnection

dCDN:

Downstream CDN

FCI:

CDNI FCI, CDNI Request Routing Footprint & Capabilities Advertisement interface

IRD:

Information Resource Directory in ALTO

PID:

Provider-deﬁned Identiﬁer in ALTO

uCDN:

Upstream CDN

2.2.  Semantics of FCI Advertisement

 deﬁnes the semantics of CDNI FCI, provides guidance on what footprint and

[RFC8008]
capabilities mean in a CDNI context, and speciﬁes the requirements on the CDNI FCI transport
protocol. The deﬁnitions in
key related points of
speciﬁcation, the reader should refer to these two RFCs.

. For detailed information and normative

. Below is a non-normative review of

[RFC8008]
 and

 depend on

[RFC8006]

[RFC8006]

[RFC8008]

•

Multiple types of mandatory-to-implement footprints (i.e., "ipv4cidr", "ipv6cidr", "asn", and
"countrycode") are deﬁned in
addresses (i.e., a /32 for IPv4 or a /128 for IPv6) and IP preﬁxes with an arbitrary preﬁx length.
There must also be support for multiple IP address versions, i.e., IPv4 and IPv6, in such a
footprint.

. A "set of IP preﬁxes" can contain both full IP

[RFC8006]

Seedorf, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9241

CDNI FCI Using ALTO

July 2022

•

Multiple initial types of capabilities are deﬁned in
(2) Acquisition Protocol, (3) Redirection Mode, (4) capabilities related to CDNI Logging, and (5)
capabilities related to CDNI Metadata. They are required in all cases and, therefore,
considered as mandatory-to-implement capabilities for all CDNI FCI implementations.

 including (1) Delivery Protocol,

[RFC8008]

•

Footprint and capabilities are deﬁned together and cannot be interpreted independently
from each other. Speciﬁcally,
approach of "capabilities with footprint restrictions", by expressing capabilities on a per
footprint basis.

 integrates footprint and capabilities with an

[RFC8008]

•

Speciﬁcally, for all mandatory-to-implement footprint types, footprints can be viewed as
constraints for delegating requests to a dCDN: a dCDN footprint advertisement tells the uCDN
the limitations for delegating a request to the dCDN. For IP preﬁxes or Autonomous System
Numbers (ASNs), the footprint signals to the uCDN that it should consider the dCDN a
candidate only if the IP address of the Request Routing source falls within the preﬁx set or
ASN, respectively. The CDNI speciﬁcations do not deﬁne how a given uCDN determines what
address ranges are in a particular ASN. Similarly, for country codes, a uCDN should only
consider the dCDN a candidate if it covers the country of the Request Routing source. The
CDNI speciﬁcations do not deﬁne how a given uCDN determines the country of the Request
Routing source. Diﬀerent types of footprint constraints can be combined together to narrow
the dCDN candidacy, i.e., the uCDN should consider the dCDN a candidate only if the request
routing source satisﬁes all the types of footprint constraints in the advertisement.

•

Given that a large part of Footprint and Capabilities Advertisement may happen in
contractual agreements, the semantics of CDNI Footprint and Capabilities Advertisement
refers to answering the following question: what exactly still needs to be advertised by the
CDNI FCI? For instance, updates about temporal failures of part of a footprint can be useful
information to convey via the CDNI FCI. Such information would provide updates on
information previously agreed to in contracts between the participating CDNs. In other
words, the CDNI FCI is a means for a dCDN to provide changes and updates regarding a
footprint and/or capabilities that it has previously agreed to serve in a contract with a uCDN.
Hence, server push and incremental encoding will be necessary techniques.

2.3.  ALTO Background and Beneﬁts

Application-Layer Traﬃc Optimization (ALTO)
network-layer (topology) information to "guide" the resource provider selection process in
distributed applications that can choose among several candidate resources providers to retrieve
a given resource. Usually, it is assumed that an ALTO server conveys information that these
applications cannot measure or have diﬃculty measuring themselves

 deﬁnes an approach for conveying

[RFC7285]

[RFC5693]

.

Originally, ALTO was motivated by optimizing cross-ISP traﬃc generated by peer-to-peer
applications
CDNs. In particular,
improve the selection of a CDN surrogate or origin.

. However, ALTO can also be used for improving the Request Routing in
 explicitly mentions ALTO as a candidate protocol to

Section 5 of [RFC7971]

[RFC5693]

Seedorf, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9241

CDNI FCI Using ALTO

July 2022

The following reasons make ALTO a suitable candidate protocol for dCDN selection as part of
CDNI Request Routing and, in particular, for an FCI protocol:

•

Application-Layer-oriented: ALTO is a protocol speciﬁcally designed to improve application-
layer traﬃc (and application-layer connections among hosts on the Internet) by providing
additional information to applications that these applications could not easily retrieve
themselves. This matches the need of CDNI, where a uCDN wants to improve application-layer
CDN request routing by using information (provided by a dCDN) that the uCDN could not
easily obtain otherwise. Hence, ALTO can help a uCDN to select a proper dCDN by ﬁrst
providing dCDNs' capabilities as well as footprints (see Section 3) and then providing costs of
surrogates in a dCDN by ALTO cost maps.

•

Security: The identiﬁcation between uCDNs and dCDNs is an important requirement (see
Section 8). ALTO maps can be signed and hence provide inherent origin protection. Please see
Section 15.1.2 of [RFC7285]

 for detailed protection strategies.

•

RESTful design: The ALTO Protocol has undergone extensive revisions in order to provide a
RESTful design regarding the client-server interaction speciﬁed by the protocol. It is ﬂexible
and extensible enough to handle existing and potential future data formats deﬁned by CDNI.
It can provide the consistent client-server interaction model for other existing CDNI
interfaces or potential future extensions and therefore reduce the learning cost for both users
and developers, although they are not in the scope of this document. A CDNI FCI interface
based on ALTO would inherit this RESTful design. Please see Section 3.

•

Error handling: The ALTO Protocol provides extensive error handling in the whole request
Section 8.5 of [RFC7285]
and response process (see
would inherit this extensive error-handling framework. Please see Section 5.

). A CDNI FCI interface based on ALTO

•

Map Service: The semantics of an ALTO network map is an exact match for the needed
information to convey a footprint by a dCDN, in particular, if such a footprint is being
expressed by IP preﬁx ranges. Please see Section 4.

•

Filtered Map Service: The ALTO map ﬁltering service would allow a uCDN to query only for
parts of an ALTO map. For example, the ALTO ﬁltered property Map Service can enable a
uCDN to query properties of a part of footprints eﬃciently. Please see Section 6.

•

Server-initiated notiﬁcations and incremental updates: When the footprint or the
capabilities of a dCDN change (i.e., unexpectedly from the perspective of a uCDN), server-
initiated notiﬁcations would enable a dCDN to inform a uCDN about such changes directly.
Consider the case where -- due to failure -- part of the footprint of the dCDN is not functioning,
i.e., the CDN cannot serve content to such clients with reasonable QoS. Without server-
initiated notiﬁcations, the uCDN might still use a recent network and cost map from the
dCDN and therefore redirect requests to the dCDN that it cannot serve. Similarly, the
possibility for incremental updates would enable eﬃcient conveyance of the
aforementioned (or similar) status changes by the dCDN to the uCDN. The newest design of
ALTO supports server-pushed incremental updates

[RFC8895]

.

•

Content availability on hosts: A dCDN might want to express CDN capabilities in terms of
certain content types (e.g., codecs and/or formats, or content from certain content
providers). ALTO Entity Property Map

 would enable a dCDN to make such

[RFC9240]

Seedorf, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9241

CDNI FCI Using ALTO

July 2022

information available to a uCDN. This would enable a uCDN to assess whether a dCDN has the
capabilities for a given type of content requested.

•

Resource availability on hosts or links: The capabilities on links (e.g., maximum bandwidth)
or caches (e.g., average load) might be useful information for a uCDN for optimized dCDN
selection. For instance, if a uCDN receives a streaming request for content with a certain
bitrate, it needs to know if it is likely that a dCDN can fulﬁll such stringent application-level
requirements (i.e., can be expected to have enough consistent bandwidth) before it redirects
the request. In general, if ALTO could convey such information via ALTO Entity Property Map
[RFC9240]
, it would enable more sophisticated means for dCDN selection with ALTO. The ALTO
Path Vector extension
information such as capacity regions for a given set of ﬂows.

 is designed to allow ALTO clients to query

[ALTO-PATH-VECTOR]

3.  CDNI Advertisement Service

The ALTO Protocol relies upon the ALTO information service framework, which consists of
multiple services. All ALTO services are "provided through a common transport protocol;
messaging structure and encoding; and transaction model"
. The ALTO Protocol
speciﬁcation deﬁnes multiple initial services, e.g., the ALTO Network Map Service and Cost Map
Service.

[RFC7285]

[RFC8259]

 objects of media type "application/alto-cdni+json". These JSON objects are used to
. This document speciﬁes how to

This document deﬁnes a new ALTO service, called "CDNI Advertisement Service", which conveys
JSON
transport BaseAdvertisementObject objects deﬁned in
transport such BaseAdvertisementObject objects via the ALTO Protocol with the ALTO CDNI
Advertisement Service. Similar to other ALTO services, this document deﬁnes the ALTO
information resource for the CDNI Advertisement Service as follows.

[RFC8008]

Note that the encoding of BaseAdvertisementObject reuses the one deﬁned in
therefore also follows the recommendations of I-JSON (Internet JSON)
required by

[RFC8008]

.

[RFC7493]

[RFC8008]

 and

, which is

3.1.  Media Type

The media type of the CDNI Advertisement resource is "application/alto-cdni+json" (see Section 7).

3.2.  HTTP Method

A CDNI Advertisement resource is requested using the HTTP GET method.

3.3.  Accept Input Parameters

There are no applicable Accept Input parameters.

3.4.  Capabilities

There are no applicable capabilities.

Seedorf, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9241

CDNI FCI Using ALTO

July 2022

3.5.  Uses

MUST NOT

The "uses" ﬁeld
 appear unless the CDNI Advertisement resource depends on other ALTO
information resources. If the CDNI Advertisement resource has dependent resources, the resource
IDs of its dependent resources
 be included into the "uses" ﬁeld. This document only deﬁnes
one potential dependent resource for the CDNI Advertisement resource. See Section 4 for details
of when and how to use it. Future documents may extend the CDNI Advertisement resource and
allow other dependent resources.

MUST

3.6.  Response

The "meta" ﬁeld of a CDNI Advertisement response
Section 10.3 of [RFC7285]

 include the "vtag" ﬁeld deﬁned in
. This ﬁeld provides the version of the retrieved CDNI FCI resource.

MUST

If a CDNI Advertisement response depends on other ALTO information resources, it
the "dependent-vtags" ﬁeld, whose value is an array to indicate the version tags of the resources
used, where each resource is speciﬁed in "uses" of its Information Resource Directory (IRD) entry.

 include

MUST

The data component of an ALTO CDNI Advertisement response is named "cdni-advertisement",
which is a JSON object of type CDNIAdvertisementData:

    object {
      CDNIAdvertisementData cdni-advertisement;
    } InfoResourceCDNIAdvertisement : ResponseEntityBase;

    object {
      BaseAdvertisementObject capabilities-with-footprints<0..*>;
    } CDNIAdvertisementData;

Speciﬁcally, a CDNIAdvertisementData object is a JSON object that includes only one property
named "capabilities-with-footprints", whose value is an array of BaseAdvertisementObject
objects. It provides capabilities with footprint restrictions for the uCDN to decide the dCDN
selection. If the value of this property is an empty array, it means the corresponding dCDN cannot
provide any mandatory-to-implement CDNI capabilities for any footprints.

The syntax and semantics of BaseAdvertisementObject are well deﬁned in
[RFC8008]
type", "capability-value", and "footprints", where "footprints" are deﬁned in
[RFC8006]

.

. A BaseAdvertisementObject object includes multiple properties, including "capability-

Section 4.2.2.2 of

Section 5.1 of

An equivalent speciﬁcation in the ALTO-style notation (see
contained description of the BaseAdvertisementObject. As mentioned above, the normative
speciﬁcation of BaseAdvertisementObject is in

Section 8.2 of [RFC7285]

[RFC8008]

.

) creates a self-

Seedorf, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9241

CDNI FCI Using ALTO

July 2022

    object {
      JSONString capability-type;
      JSONValue capability-value;
      Footprint footprints<0..*>;
    } BaseAdvertisementObject;

    object {
      JSONString footprint-type;
      JSONString footprint-value<1..*>;
    } Footprint;

For each BaseAdvertisementObject, the ALTO client
multiple times as if they appeared only once. If "footprints" in a BaseAdvertisementObject is null
or empty or does not appear, the ALTO client
MUST
BaseAdvertisementObject have the "global" coverage, i.e., the corresponding dCDN can provide
them for any Request Routing source.

 understand that the capabilities in this

 interpret "footprints" appearing

MUST

Note: Further optimization of BaseAdvertisementObjects to eﬀectively provide the advertisement
of capabilities with footprint restrictions is certainly possible. For example, these two examples
below both describe that the dCDN can provide capabilities ["http/1.1", "https/1.1"] for the same
footprints. However, the latter one is smaller in its size.

Seedorf, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9241

CDNI FCI Using ALTO

July 2022

EXAMPLE 1
    {
      "meta": {...},
      "cdni-advertisement": {
        "capabilities-with-footprints": [
          {
            "capability-type": "FCI.DeliveryProtocol",
            "capability-value": {
              "delivery-protocols": [
                "http/1.1"
              ]
            },
            "footprints": [
              <Footprint objects>
            ]
          },
          {

            "capability-type": "FCI.DeliveryProtocol",
            "capability-value": {
              "delivery-protocols": [
                "https/1.1"
              ]
            },
            "footprints": [
              <Footprint objects>
            ]
          }
        ]
      }
    }

EXAMPLE 2
    {
      "meta": {...},
      "cdni-advertisement": {
        "capabilities-with-footprints": [
          {
            "capability-type": "FCI.DeliveryProtocol",
            "capability-value": {
              "delivery-protocols": [
                "https/1.1",
                "http/1.1"
              ]
            },
            "footprints": [
              <Footprint objects>
            ]
          }
        ]
      }
    }

Since such optimizations are not required for the basic interconnection of CDNs, the speciﬁcs of
such mechanisms are outside the scope of this document.

Seedorf, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9241

CDNI FCI Using ALTO

July 2022

This document only requires the ALTO server to provide the initial FCI-speciﬁc CDNI Payload
Types deﬁned in

 as the mandatory-to-implement CDNI capabilities.

[RFC8008]

3.7.  Examples

3.7.1.  IRD

Below is the IRD of a simple, example ALTO server. The server provides both base ALTO
information resources (e.g., network maps) and CDNI FCI-related information resources (e.g.,
CDNI Advertisement resources), demonstrating a single, integrated environment.

Speciﬁcally, the IRD announces nine information resources as follows:

•

two network maps,

•

one CDNI Advertisement resource without dependency,

•

one CDNI Advertisement resource depending on a network map,

•

one ﬁltered CDNI Advertisement resource to be deﬁned in Section 5,

•

one property map including "cdni-capabilities" as its entity property,

•

one ﬁltered property map including "cdni-capabilities" and "pid" as its entity properties, and

•

two update stream services:
◦

one for updating CDNI Advertisement resources,

◦

one for updating property maps

Seedorf, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9241

CDNI FCI Using ALTO

July 2022

 GET /directory HTTP/1.1
 Host: alto.example.com
 Accept: application/alto-directory+json,application/alto-error+json

 HTTP/1.1 200 OK
 Content-Length: 3531
 Content-Type: application/alto-directory+json

 {
   "meta": {
     "default-alto-network-map": "my-default-network-map"
   },
   "resources": {
     "my-default-network-map": {
       "uri": "https://alto.example.com/networkmap",
       "media-type": "application/alto-networkmap+json"
     },
     "my-eu-netmap": {
       "uri": "https://alto.example.com/myeunetmap",
       "media-type": "application/alto-networkmap+json"
     },
     "my-default-cdnifci": {
       "uri": "https://alto.example.com/cdnifci",
       "media-type": "application/alto-cdni+json"
     },
     "my-cdnifci-with-pid-footprints": {
       "uri": "https://alto.example.com/networkcdnifci",
       "media-type": "application/alto-cdni+json",
       "uses": [ "my-eu-netmap" ]
     },
     "my-filtered-cdnifci": {
       "uri": "https://alto.example.com/cdnifci/filtered",
       "media-type": "application/alto-cdni+json",
       "accepts": "application/alto-cdnifilter+json"
     },
     "cdnifci-property-map": {
       "uri": "https://alto.example.com/propmap/full/cdnifci",
       "media-type": "application/alto-propmap+json",
       "uses": [ "my-default-cdni" ],
       "capabilities": {
         "mappings": {
           "ipv4": [ "my-default-cdni.cdni-capabilities" ],
           "ipv6": [ "my-default-cdni.cdni-capabilities" ],
           "countrycode": [
             "my-default-cdni.cdni-capabilities" ],
           "asn": [ "my-default-cdni.cdni-capabilities" ]
         }
       }
     },
     "filtered-cdnifci-property-map": {
       "uri": "https://alto.example.com/propmap/lookup/cdnifci-pid",
       "media-type": "application/alto-propmap+json",
       "accepts": "application/alto-propmapparams+json",
       "uses": [ "my-default-cdni", "my-default-network-map" ],
       "capabilities": {
         "mappings": {
           "ipv4": [ "my-default-cdni.cdni-capabilities",

Seedorf, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9241

CDNI FCI Using ALTO

July 2022

                     "my-default-network-map.pid" ],
           "ipv6": [ "my-default-cdni.cdni-capabilities",
                     "my-default-network-map.pid" ],
           "countrycode": [
             "my-default-cdni.cdni-capabilities" ],
           "asn": [ "my-default-cdni.cdni-capabilities" ]
         }
       }
     },
     "update-my-cdni-fci": {
       "uri": "https://alto.example.com/updates/cdnifci",
       "media-type": "text/event-stream",
       "accepts": "application/alto-updatestreamparams+json",
       "uses": [
         "my-default-network-map",
         "my-eu-netmap",
         "my-default-cdnifci",
         "my-filtered-cdnifci",
         "my-cdnifci-with-pid-footprints"
       ],
       "capabilities": {
         "incremental-change-media-types": {
          "my-default-network-map": "application/json-patch+json",
          "my-eu-netmap": "application/json-patch+json",
          "my-default-cdnifci":
          "application/merge-patch+json,application/json-patch+json",
          "my-filtered-cdnifci":
          "application/merge-patch+json,application/json-patch+json",
          "my-cdnifci-with-pid-footprints":
          "application/merge-patch+json,application/json-patch+json"
         }
       }
     },
     "update-my-props": {
       "uri": "https://alto.example.com/updates/properties",
       "media-type": "text/event-stream",
       "uses": [
         "cdnifci-property-map",
         "filtered-cdnifci-property-map"
       ],
       "capabilities": {
         "incremental-change-media-types": {
          "cdnifci-property-map":
          "application/merge-patch+json,application/json-patch+json",
          "filtered-cdnifci-property-map":
          "application/merge-patch+json,application/json-patch+json"
         }
       }
     }
   }
 }

Seedorf, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9241

CDNI FCI Using ALTO

July 2022

3.7.2.  A Basic Example

This basic example demonstrates a simple CDNI Advertisement resource, which does not depend
on other resources. There are three BaseAdvertisementObjects in this resource and these objects'
capabilities are "http/1.1" delivery protocol, ["http/1.1", "https/1.1"] delivery protocol, and "https/
1.1" acquisition protocol, respectively.

Seedorf, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9241

CDNI FCI Using ALTO

July 2022

  GET /cdnifci HTTP/1.1
  Host: alto.example.com
  Accept: application/alto-cdni+json,application/alto-error+json

  HTTP/1.1 200 OK
  Content-Length: 1411
  Content-Type: application/alto-cdni+json

  {
    "meta": {
      "vtag": {
        "resource-id": "my-default-cdnifci",
        "tag": "da65eca2eb7a10ce8b059740b0b2e3f8eb1d4785"
      }
    },
    "cdni-advertisement": {
      "capabilities-with-footprints": [
        {
          "capability-type": "FCI.DeliveryProtocol",
          "capability-value": {
            "delivery-protocols": [
              "http/1.1"
            ]
          },
          "footprints": [
            {
              "footprint-type": "ipv4cidr",
              "footprint-value": [ "192.0.2.0/24" ]
            },
            {
              "footprint-type": "ipv6cidr",
              "footprint-value": [ "2001:db8::/32" ]
            }
          ]
        },
        {
          "capability-type": "FCI.DeliveryProtocol",
          "capability-value": {
            "delivery-protocols": [
              "https/1.1",
              "http/1.1"
            ]
          },
          "footprints": [
            {
              "footprint-type": "ipv4cidr",
              "footprint-value": [ "198.51.100.0/24" ]
            }
          ]
        },
        {
          "capability-type": "FCI.AcquisitionProtocol",
          "capability-value": {
            "acquisition-protocols": [
              "https/1.1"
            ]
          },

Seedorf, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9241

CDNI FCI Using ALTO

July 2022

          "footprints": [
            {
              "footprint-type": "ipv4cidr",
              "footprint-value": [ "203.0.113.0/24" ]
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    }
  }

3.7.3.  Incremental Updates

A beneﬁt of using ALTO to provide CDNI Advertisement resources is that such resources can be
[RFC8895]
updated using ALTO incremental updates
beneﬁt of having both JSON merge patch and JSON patch to encode updates.

. Below is an example that also shows the

At ﬁrst, an ALTO client requests updates for "my-default-cdnifci", and the ALTO server returns the
"control-uri" followed by the full CDNI Advertisement response. Then when there is a change in
the "delivery-protocols" in that "http/1.1" is removed (from ["http/1.1", "https/1.1"] to only "https/
1.1") due to maintenance of the "http/1.1" clusters, the ALTO server regenerates the new CDNI
Advertisement resource and pushes the full replacement to the ALTO client. Later on, the ALTO
server notiﬁes the ALTO client that "192.0.2.0/24" is added into the "ipv4" footprint object for
delivery protocol "https/1.1" by sending the change encoded by JSON patch to the ALTO client.

Seedorf, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9241

CDNI FCI Using ALTO

July 2022

 POST /updates/cdnifci HTTP/1.1
 Host: alto.example.com
 Accept: text/event-stream,application/alto-error+json
 Content-Type: application/alto-updatestreamparams+json
 Content-Length: 94

 {
   "add": {
     "my-cdnifci-stream": {
       "resource-id": "my-default-cdnifci"
     }
   }
 }

 HTTP/1.1 200 OK
 Connection: keep-alive
 Content-Type: text/event-stream

 event: application/alto-updatestreamcontrol+json
 data: {"control-uri":
 data: "https://alto.example.com/updates/streams/3141592653589"}

 event: application/alto-cdni+json,my-cdnifci-stream
 data: { ... full CDNI Advertisement resource ... }

 event: application/alto-cdni+json,my-cdnifci-stream
 data: {
 data:   "meta": {
 data:     "vtag": {
 data:       "tag": "dasdfa10ce8b059740bddsfasd8eb1d47853716"
 data:     }
 data:   },
 data:   "cdni-advertisement": {
 data:     "capabilities-with-footprints": [
 data:       {
 data:         "capability-type": "FCI.DeliveryProtocol",
 data:         "capability-value": {
 data:           "delivery-protocols": [
 data:             "https/1.1"
 data:           ]
 data:         },
 data:         "footprints": [
 data:           { "footprint-type": "ipv4cidr",
 data:             "footprint-value": [ "203.0.113.0/24" ]
 data:           }
 data:         ]
 data:       },
 data:       { ... other CDNI advertisement object ... }
 data:     ]
 data:   }
 data: }

 event: application/json-patch+json,my-cdnifci-stream
 data: [
 data:   { "op": "replace",
 data:     "path": "/meta/vtag/tag",
 data:     "value": "a10ce8b059740b0b2e3f8eb1d4785acd42231bfe"

Seedorf, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9241

CDNI FCI Using ALTO

July 2022

 data:   },
 data:   { "op": "add",
 data:     "path": "/cdni-advertisement/capabilities-with-footprints
 /0/footprints/0/footprint-value/-",
 data:     "value": "192.0.2.0/24"
 data:   }
 data: ]

4.  CDNI Advertisement Service Using ALTO Network Map

4.1.  Network Map Footprint Type: altopid

The ALTO Protocol deﬁnes a concept called Provider-deﬁned Identiﬁer (PID) to represent a group
of IPv4 or IPv6 addresses to which can be applied the same management policy. The PID is an
alternative to the predeﬁned CDNI footprint types (i.e., "ipv4cidr", "ipv6cidr", "asn", and
"countrycode").

To leverage this concept, this document deﬁnes a new CDNI Footprint Type called "altopid". A
CDNI Advertisement resource can depend on an ALTO network map resource and use "altopid"
footprints to compress its CDNI Footprint Payload.

[RFC7285]

Speciﬁcally, the "altopid" footprint type indicates that the corresponding footprint value is a list of
PIDNames as deﬁned in
resource. Hence a CDNI Advertisement resource using "altopid" footprints depends on a network
map. For such a CDNI Advertisement resource, the resource ID of its dependent network map
 be included in the "uses" ﬁeld of its IRD entry, and the "dependent-vtags" ﬁeld with a
MUST
reference to this network map

 be included in its response (see the example in Section 4.2.2).

. These PIDNames are references of PIDs in a network map

MUST

4.2.  Examples

The following examples use the same IRD given in Section 3.7.1.

4.2.1.  ALTO Network Map for CDNI Advertisements

Below provides a sample network map whose resource ID is "my-eu-netmap". This map is
referenced by the CDNI Advertisement example in Section 4.2.2.

Seedorf, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9241

CDNI FCI Using ALTO

July 2022

 GET /myeunetmap HTTP/1.1
 Host: alto.example.com
 Accept: application/alto-networkmap+json,application/alto-error+json

 HTTP/1.1 200 OK
 Content-Length: 344
 Content-Type: application/alto-networkmap+json

 {
   "meta": {
     "vtag": [
       { "resource-id": "my-eu-netmap",
         "tag": "3ee2cb7e8d63d9fab71b9b34cbf764436315542e"
       }
     ]
   },
   "network-map": {
     "south-france" : {
       "ipv4": [ "192.0.2.0/24", "198.51.100.0/25" ],
       "ipv6": [ "2001:db8::/32" ]
     },
     "germany": {
       "ipv4": [ "203.0.113.0/24" ]
     }
   }
 }

4.2.2.  ALTO PID Footprints in CDNI Advertisements

This example shows a CDNI Advertisement resource that depends on a network map described in
Section 4.2.1.

Seedorf, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9241

CDNI FCI Using ALTO

July 2022

 GET /networkcdnifci HTTP/1.1
 Host: alto.example.com
 Accept: application/alto-cdni+json,application/alto-error+json

 HTTP/1.1 200 OK
 Content-Length: 736
 Content-Type: application/alto-cdni+json

 {
   "meta": {
     "dependent-vtags": [
       {
         "resource-id": "my-eu-netmap",
         "tag": "3ee2cb7e8d63d9fab71b9b34cbf764436315542e"
       }
     ]
   },
   "cdni-advertisement": {
     "capabilities-with-footprints": [
       { "capability-type": "FCI.DeliveryProtocol",
         "capability-value": [ "https/1.1" ],
         "footprints": [
           { "footprint-type": "altopid",
             "footprint-value": [ "south-france" ]
           }
         ]
       },
       { "capability-type": "FCI.AcquisitionProtocol",
         "capability-value": [ "https/1.1" ],
         "footprints": [
           { "footprint-type": "altopid",
             "footprint-value": [ "germany", "south-france" ]
           }
         ]
       }
     ]
   }
 }

4.2.3.  Incremental Updates

In this example, the ALTO client is interested in changes of "my-cdnifci-with-pid-footprints" and
its dependent network map "my-eu-netmap". Considering two changes, the ﬁrst one is to change
footprints of the "https/1.1" delivery protocol capability, and the second one is to remove the
"south-france" PID from the footprints of the "https/1.1" acquisition protocol capability.

Seedorf, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9241

CDNI FCI Using ALTO

July 2022

  POST /updates/cdnifci HTTP/1.1
  Host: alto.example.com
  Accept: text/event-stream,application/alto-error+json
  Content-Type: application/alto-updatestreamparams+json
  Content-Length: 185

  {
    "add": {
      "my-eu-netmap-stream": {
        "resource-id": "my-eu-netmap"
      },
      "my-netmap-cdnifci-stream": {
        "resource-id": "my-cdnifci-with-pid-footprints"
      }
    }
  }

  HTTP/1.1 200 OK
  Connection: keep-alive
  Content-Type: text/event-stream

  event: application/alto-updatestreamcontrol+json
  data: {"control-uri":
  data: "https://alto.example.com/updates/streams/3141592653590"}

  event: application/alto-networkmap+json,my-eu-netmap-stream
  data: { ... full Network Map of my-eu-netmap ... }

  event: application/alto-cdnifci+json,my-netmap-cdnifci-stream
  data: { ... full CDNI Advertisement resource ... }

  event: application/json-patch+json,my-netmap-cdnifci-stream
  data: [
  data:   { "op": "replace",
  data:     "path": "/meta/vtag/tag",
  data:     "value": "dasdfa10ce8b059740bddsfasd8eb1d47853716"
  data:   },
  data:   { "op": "add",
  data:     "path":
  data:     "/cdni-advertisement/capabilities-with-footprints
  /0/footprints/0/footprint-value/-",
  data:     "value": "germany"
  data:   }
  data: ]

  event: application/json-patch+json,my-netmap-cdnifci-stream
  data: [
  data:   { "op": "replace",
  data:     "path": "/meta/vtag/tag",
  data:     "value": "a10ce8b059740b0b2e3f8eb1d4785acd42231bfe"
  data:   },
  data:   { "op": "remove",
  data:     "path":
  data:     "/cdni-advertisement/capabilities-with-footprints
  /1/footprints/0/footprint-value/1"
  data:   }
  data: ]

Seedorf, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9241

CDNI FCI Using ALTO

July 2022

5.  Filtered CDNI Advertisement Using CDNI Capabilities

Sections 3 and 4 describe the CDNI Advertisement Service that can be used to enable a uCDN to
get capabilities with footprint restrictions from dCDNs. However, since always getting full CDNI
Advertisement resources from dCDNs is ineﬃcient, this document introduces a new service
named "Filtered CDNI Advertisement Service" to allow a client to ﬁlter a CDNI Advertisement
resource using a client-given set of CDNI capabilities. For each entry of the CDNI Advertisement
response, an entry will only be returned to the client if it contains at least one of the client-given
CDNI capabilities. The relationship between a ﬁltered CDNI Advertisement resource and a CDNI
Advertisement resource is similar to the relationship between a ﬁltered network/cost map and a
network/cost map.

5.1.  Media Type

A ﬁltered CDNI Advertisement resource uses the same media type deﬁned for the CDNI
Advertisement resource in Section 3.1: "application/alto-cdni+json".

5.2.  HTTP Method

A ﬁltered CDNI Advertisement resource is requested using the HTTP POST method.

5.3.  Accept Input Parameters

The input parameters for a ﬁltered CDNI Advertisement resource are supplied in the entity body
of the POST request. This document speciﬁes the input parameters with a data format indicated
by the media type "application/alto-cdniﬁlter+json", which is a JSON object of type
ReqFilteredCDNIAdvertisement where:

   object {
       JSONString capability-type;
       JSONValue capability-value;
   } CDNICapability;

   object {
       CDNICapability cdni-capabilities<0..*>;
   } ReqFilteredCDNIAdvertisement;

with ﬁelds:

capability-type:

5.1 of [RFC8008]

The same as Base Advertisement Object's "capability-type" deﬁned in
.

Section

capability-value:

5.1 of [RFC8008]

The same as Base Advertisement Object's "capability-value" deﬁned in
.

Section

Seedorf, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9241

CDNI FCI Using ALTO

July 2022

cdni-capabilities: A list of CDNI capabilities deﬁned in

Section 5.1 of [RFC8008]

 for which

footprints are to be returned. If this list is empty, the ALTO server
for the full CDNI Advertisement resource. The ALTO server
MUST
this list multiple times as if they appeared only once. If the ALTO server does not deﬁne any
footprints for a CDNI capability, it

 interpret it as a request
MUST
 interpret entries appearing in

 omit this capability from the response.

MUST

5.4.  Capabilities

There are no applicable capabilities.

5.5.  Uses

The same rules as for the "uses" ﬁeld of the CDNI Advertisement resource apply (see Section 3.5).

5.6.  Response

If the request is invalid, the response
.
speciﬁed in

Section 8.5 of [RFC7285]

MUST

 indicate an error using ALTO Protocol error handling

Speciﬁcally, a ﬁltered CDNI Advertisement request is invalid if:

•

the value of "capability-type" is null;

•

the value of "capability-value" is null; or

•

the value of "capability-value" is inconsistent with "capability-type".

When a request is invalid, the ALTO server
deﬁned in
this CDNI capability.

Section 8.5.2 of [RFC7285]

MUST

 return an "E_INVALID_FIELD_VALUE" error

, and the "value" ﬁeld of the error message

SHOULD

 indicate

The ALTO server returns a ﬁltered CDNI Advertisement resource for a valid request. The format of
a ﬁltered CDNI Advertisement resource is the same as a full CDNI Advertisement resource (see
Section 3.6).

The returned ﬁltered CDNI Advertisement resource
BaseAdvertisementObject objects satisfying the following condition: the CDNI capability object of
each included BaseAdvertisementObject object

 follow two constraints:

 contain all the

MUST

MUST

•

The "cdni-capabilities" ﬁeld of the input includes a CDNI capability object X having the same
"capability-type" as it.

•

All the mandatory properties in its "capability-value" is a superset of mandatory properties in
"capability-value" of X semantically.

See Section 5.7.1 for a concrete example.

The version tag included in the "vtag" ﬁeld of the response
Advertisement resource from which the ﬁltered CDNI Advertisement resource is provided. This
ensures that a single, canonical version tag is used independently of any ﬁltering that is
requested by an ALTO client.

 correspond to the full CDNI

MUST

Seedorf, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9241

CDNI FCI Using ALTO

July 2022

5.7.  Examples

The following examples use the same IRD example as in Section 3.7.1.

5.7.1.  A Basic Example

This example ﬁlters the full CDNI Advertisement resource in Section 3.7.2 by selecting only the
"http/1.1" delivery protocol capability. Only the second BaseAdvertisementObject in the full
resource will be returned because the second object's capability is "http/1.1" and "https/1.1"
delivery protocols, which is the superset of "https/1.1" delivery protocol.

Seedorf, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9241

CDNI FCI Using ALTO

July 2022

  POST /cdnifci/filtered HTTP/1.1
  Host: alto.example.com
  Accept: application/alto-cdni+json
  Content-Type: application/cdnifilter+json
  Content-Length: 176

  {
    "cdni-capabilities": [
      {
        "capability-type": "FCI.DeliveryProtocol",
        "capability-value": {
          "delivery-protocols": [ "https/1.1" ]
        }
      }
    ]
  }

  HTTP/1.1 200 OK
  Content-Length: 570
  Content-Type: application/alto-cdni+json

  {
    "meta": {
      "vtag": {
        "resource-id": "my-filtered-cdnifci",
        "tag": "da65eca2eb7a10ce8b059740b0b2e3f8eb1d4785"
      }
    },
    "cdni-advertisement": {
      "capabilities-with-footprints": [
        {
          "capability-type": "FCI.DeliveryProtocol",
          "capability-value": {
            "delivery-protocols": [
              "https/1.1",
              "http/1.1"
            ]
          },
          "footprints": [
            {
              "footprint-type": "ipv4cidr",
              "footprint-value": [ "198.51.100.0/24" ]
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    }
  }

5.7.2.  Incremental Updates

In this example, the ALTO client only cares about the updates of one advertisement object for
delivery protocol capability whose value includes "https/1.1". Thus, it adds its limitation of
capabilities in "input" ﬁeld of the POST request.

Seedorf, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9241

CDNI FCI Using ALTO

July 2022

  POST /updates/cdnifci HTTP/1.1
  Host: fcialtoupdate.example.com
  Accept: text/event-stream,application/alto-error+json
  Content-Type: application/alto-updatestreamparams+json
  Content-Length: 346

  {
    "add": {
      "my-filtered-fci-stream": {
        "resource-id": "my-filtered-cdnifci",
        "input": {
          "cdni-capabilities": [
            {
              "capability-type": "FCI.DeliveryProtocol",
              "capability-value": {
                "delivery-protocols": [ "https/1.1" ]
              }
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    }
  }

  HTTP/1.1 200 OK
  Connection: keep-alive
  Content-Type: text/event-stream

  event: application/alto-updatestreamcontrol+json
  data: {"control-uri":
  data: "https://alto.example.com/updates/streams/3141592653590"}

  event: application/alto-cdni+json,my-filtered-fci-stream
  data: { ... filtered CDNI Advertisement resource ... }

  event: application/json-patch+json,my-filtered-fci-stream
  data: [
  data:   {
  data:     "op": "replace",
  data:     "path": "/meta/vtag/tag",
  data:     "value": "a10ce8b059740b0b2e3f8eb1d4785acd42231bfe"
  data:   },
  data:   { "op": "add",
  data:     "path":
  data:     "/cdni-advertisement/capabilities-with-footprints
  /0/footprints/0/footprint-value/-",
  data:     "value": "192.0.2.0/24"
  data:   }
  data: ]

6.  Query Footprint Properties Using ALTO Property Map
Service

Besides the requirement of retrieving footprints of given capabilities, another common
requirement for uCDN is to query CDNI capabilities of given footprints.

Seedorf, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9241

CDNI FCI Using ALTO

July 2022

Considering each footprint as an entity with properties including CDNI capabilities, a natural way
to satisfy this requirement is to use the ALTO property map as deﬁned in
. This section
describes how ALTO clients look up properties for individual footprints. First, it describes how to
represent footprint objects as entities in the ALTO property map. Then it describes how to
represent footprint capabilities as entity properties in the ALTO property map. Finally, it provides
examples of the full property map and the ﬁltered property map supporting CDNI capabilities,
and their incremental updates.

[RFC9240]

6.1.  Representing Footprint Objects as Property Map Entities

A footprint object has two properties: "footprint-type" and "footprint-value". A "footprint-value" is
an array of footprint values conforming to the speciﬁcation associated with the registered
footprint type ("ipv4cidr", "ipv6cidr", "asn", "countrycode", and "altopid"). Considering each ALTO
entity deﬁned in
identiﬁer, a straightforward approach to represent a footprint as an ALTO entity is to represent
its "footprint-type" as an entity domain type, and its footprint value as a domain-speciﬁc
identiﬁer.

 also has two properties: entity domain type and domain-speciﬁc

[RFC9240]

Each existing footprint type can be represented as an entity domain type as follows:

•

[RFC9240]

, "ipv4" and "ipv6" are two predeﬁned entity domain types, which can

According to
be used to represent "ipv4cidr" and "ipv6cidr" footprints respectively. Note that both "ipv4"
and "ipv6" domains can include not only hierarchical addresses but also individual
addresses. Therefore, a "ipv4cidr" or "ipv6cidr" footprint with the longest preﬁx can also be
represented by an individual address entity. When the uCDN receives a property map with
individual addresses in an "ipv4" or "ipv6" domain, it can translate them as corresponding
"ipv4cidr" or "ipv6cidr" footprints with the longest preﬁx.

•

"pid" is also a predeﬁned entity domain type, which can be used to represent "altopid"
footprints. Note that "pid" is a resource-speciﬁc entity domain. To represent an "altopid"
footprint, the specifying information resource of the corresponding "pid" entity domain
MUST
this "altopid" footprint.

 be the dependent network map used by the CDNI Advertisement resource providing

•

However, no existing entity domain type can represent "asn" and "countrycode" footprints.
To represent footprint-type "asn" and "countrycode", this document registers two new entity
domains in Section 7 in addition to the ones in

[RFC9240]

.

Here is an example of representing a footprint object of "ipv4cidr" type as a set of "ipv4" entities
in the ALTO property map. The representation of the footprint object of "ipv6cidr" type is similar.

{ "footprint-type": "ipv4cidr",
  "footprint-value": ["192.0.2.0/24", "198.51.100.0/24"]
} --> "ipv4:192.0.2.0/24", "ipv4:198.51.100.0/24"

And here is an example of the corresponding footprint object of "ipv4cidr" type represented by an
individual address in an "ipv4" domain in the ALTO property map. The translation of the entities
in an "ipv6" domain is similar.

Seedorf, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 9241

CDNI FCI Using ALTO

July 2022

"ipv4:203.0.113.100" --> {
  "footprint-type": "ipv4cidr",
  "footprint-value": ["203.0.113.100/32"]
}

6.1.1.  ASN Domain

The ASN domain associates property values with Autonomous Systems in the Internet.

6.1.1.1.  Entity Domain Type

The entity domain type of the ASN domain is "asn" (in lowercase).

6.1.1.2.  Domain-Speciﬁc Entity Identiﬁers

The entity identiﬁer of an entity in an ASN domain
characters "as" (in lowercase) followed by the ASN
leading zeros.

MUST
[RFC6793]

 be encoded as a string consisting of the

 as a decimal number without

6.1.1.3.  Hierarchy and Inheritance

There is no hierarchy or inheritance for properties associated with ASN.

6.1.2.  COUNTRYCODE Domain

The COUNTRYCODE domain associates property values with countries.

6.1.2.1.  Entity Domain Type

The entity domain type of the COUNTRYCODE domain is "countrycode" (in lowercase).

6.1.2.2.  Domain-Speciﬁc Entity Identiﬁers

The entity identiﬁer of an entity in a COUNTRYCODE domain is encoded as an ISO 3166-1 alpha-2
code

 in lowercase.

[ISO3166-1]

6.1.2.3.  Hierarchy and Inheritance

There is no hierarchy or inheritance for properties associated with country codes.

6.2.  Representing CDNI Capabilities as Property Map Entity Properties

This document deﬁnes a new entity property type called "cdni-capabilities". An ALTO server can
provide a property map resource mapping the "cdni-capabilities" entity property type for a CDNI
Advertisement resource that it provides to an "ipv4", "ipv6", "asn", or "countrycode" entity
domain.

Seedorf, et al.

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 9241

CDNI FCI Using ALTO

July 2022

6.2.1.  Deﬁning Information Resource Media Type for Property Type cdni-capabilities

The entity property type "cdni-capabilities" allows deﬁning resource-speciﬁc entity properties.
When resource-speciﬁc entity properties are deﬁned with entity property type "cdni-capabilities",
the deﬁning information resource for a "cdni-capabilities" property
Advertisement resource provided by the ALTO server. The media type of the deﬁning information
resource for a "cdni-capabilities" property is therefore:

 be a CDNI

MUST

application/alto-cdni+json

6.2.2.  Intended Semantics of Property Type cdni-capabilities

The purpose of a "cdni-capabilities" property for an entity is to indicate all the CDNI capabilities
that a corresponding CDNI Advertisement resource provides for the footprint represented by this
entity. Thus, the value of a "cdni-capabilities" property
"cdni-capabilities" property
5.3). The value of a "cdni-capabilities" property for an "ipv4", "ipv6", "asn", "countrycode", or
"altopid" entity
(1) they are provided by the deﬁning CDNI Advertisement resource, and (2) the represented
footprint object of this entity is in their footprint restrictions.

 be a JSON array. Each element in a
 be a JSON object in the format of CDNICapability (see Section

 include all the CDNICapability objects satisfying the following conditions:

MUST

MUST

MUST

6.3.  Examples

The following examples use the same IRD example given by Section 3.7.1.

6.3.1.  Property Map

This example shows a full property map in which entities are footprints and entities' property is
"cdni-capabilities".

Seedorf, et al.

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 9241

CDNI FCI Using ALTO

July 2022

 GET /propmap/full/cdnifci HTTP/1.1
 Host: alto.example.com
 Accept: application/alto-propmap+json,application/alto-error+json

 HTTP/1.1 200 OK
 Content-Length: 1522
 Content-Type: application/alto-propmap+json

 {
   "property-map": {
     "meta": {
       "dependent-vtags": [
         { "resource-id": "my-default-cdnifci",
           "tag": "7915dc0290c2705481c491a2b4ffbec482b3cf62"}
       ]
     },
     "countrycode:us": {
       "my-default-cdnifci.cdni-capabilities": [
         { "capability-type": "FCI.DeliveryProtocol",
           "capability-value": {
             "delivery-protocols": ["http/1.1"]}}]
     },
     "ipv4:192.0.2.0/24": {
       "my-default-cdnifci.cdni-capabilities": [
         { "capability-type": "FCI.DeliveryProtocol",
           "capability-value": {
             "delivery-protocols": ["http/1.1"]}}]
     },
     "ipv4:198.51.100.0/24": {
       "my-default-cdnifci.cdni-capabilities": [
         { "capability-type": "FCI.DeliveryProtocol",
           "capability-value": {
             "delivery-protocols": ["https/1.1", "http/1.1"]}}]
     },
     "ipv4:203.0.113.0/24": {
       "my-default-cdnifci.cdni-capabilities": [
         { "capability-type": "FCI.AcquisitionProtocol",
           "capability-value": {
             "acquisition-protocols": ["http/1.1"]}}]
     },
     "ipv6:2001:db8::/32": {
       "my-default-cdnifci.cdni-capabilities": [
         { "capability-type": "FCI.DeliveryProtocol",
           "capability-value": {
             "delivery-protocols": ["http/1.1"]}}]
     },
     "asn:as64496": {
       "my-default-cdnifci.cdni-capabilities": [
         { "capability-type": "FCI.DeliveryProtocol",
           "capability-value": {
             "delivery-protocols": ["https/1.1", "http/1.1"]}}]
     }
   }
 }

Seedorf, et al.

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 9241

CDNI FCI Using ALTO

July 2022

6.3.2.  Filtered Property Map

This example uses the ﬁltered property Map Service to get "pid" and "cdni-capabilities" properties
for two footprints "ipv4:192.0.2.0/24" and "ipv6:2001:db8::/32".

   POST /propmap/lookup/cdnifci-pid HTTP/1.1
   Host: alto.example.com
   Content-Type: application/alto-propmapparams+json
   Accept: application/alto-propmap+json,application/alto-error+json
   Content-Length: 181

   {
     "entities": [
       "ipv4:192.0.2.0/24",
       "ipv6:2001:db8::/32"
     ],
     "properties": [ "my-default-cdnifci.cdni-capabilities",
                     "my-default-networkmap.pid" ]
   }

 HTTP/1.1 200 OK
 Content-Length: 796
 Content-Type: application/alto-propmap+json

 {
   "property-map": {
     "meta": {
       "dependent-vtags": [
          {"resource-id": "my-default-cdnifci",
            "tag": "7915dc0290c2705481c491a2b4ffbec482b3cf62"},
          {"resource-id": "my-default-networkmap",
            "tag": "7915dc0290c2705481c491a2b4ffbec482b3cf63"}
       ]
     },
     "ipv4:192.0.2.0/24": {
       "my-default-cdnifci.cdni-capabilities": [
         {"capability-type": "FCI.DeliveryProtocol",
          "capability-value": {"delivery-protocols": ["http/1.1"]}}],
       "my-default-networkmap.pid": "pid1"
     },
     "ipv6:2001:db8::/32": {
       "my-default-cdnifci.cdni-capabilities": [
         {"capability-type": "FCI.DeliveryProtocol",
          "capability-value": {"delivery-protocols": ["http/1.1"]}}],
       "my-default-networkmap.pid": "pid3"
     }
   }
 }

6.3.3.  Incremental Updates

In this example, the ALTO client is interested in updates for the properties "cdni-capabilities" and
"pid" of two footprints "ipv4:192.0.2.0/24" and "countrycode:fr".

Seedorf, et al.

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 9241

CDNI FCI Using ALTO

July 2022

  POST /updates/properties HTTP/1.1
  Host: alto.example.com
  Accept: text/event-stream,application/alto-error+json
  Content-Type: application/alto-updatestreamparams+json
  Content-Length: 339

  {
    "add": {
      "fci-propmap-stream": {
        "resource-id": "filtered-cdnifci-property-map",
        "input": {
          "properties": [ "my-default-cdnifci.cdni-capabilities",
                          "my-default-networkmap.pid" ],
          "entities": [ "ipv4:192.0.2.0/24",
                        "ipv6:2001:db8::/32" ]
        }
      }
    }
  }

  HTTP/1.1 200 OK
  Connection: keep-alive
  Content-Type: text/event-stream

  event: application/alto-updatestreamcontrol+json
  data: {"control-uri":
  data: "https://alto.example.com/updates/streams/1414213562373"}

  event: application/alto-cdni+json,fci-propmap-stream
  data: { ... filtered property map ... }

  event: application/merge-patch+json,fci-propmap-stream
  data: {
  data:   "property-map": {
  data:     "meta": {
  data:       "dependent-vtags": [
  data:         { "resource-id": "my-default-cdnifci",
  data:           "tag": "2beeac8ee23c3dd1e98a73fd30df80ece9fa5627"},
  data:         { "resource-id": "my-default-networkmap",
  data:           "tag": "7915dc0290c2705481c491a2b4ffbec482b3cf63"}
  data:       ]
  data:     },
  data:     "ipv4:192.0.2.0/24": {
  data:       "my-default-cdnifci.cdni-capabilities": [
  data:         { "capability-type": "FCI.DeliveryProtocol",
  data:           "capability-value": {
  data:             "delivery-protocols": ["http/1.1", "https/1.1"]}}]
  data:     }
  data:   }
  data: }

  event: application/json-patch+json,fci-propmap-stream
  data: [
  data:   { "op": "replace",
  data:     "path": "/meta/dependent-vtags/0/tag",
  data:     "value": "61b23185a50dc7b334577507e8f00ff8c3b409e4"
  data:   },

Seedorf, et al.

Standards Track

Page 33

RFC 9241

CDNI FCI Using ALTO

July 2022

  data:   { "op": "replace",
  data:     "path":
  data:     "/property-map/countrycode:fr/my-default-networkmap.pid",
  data:     "value": "pid5"
  data:   }
  data: ]

7.  IANA Considerations

This document deﬁnes two new media types: "application/alto-cdni+json", as described in Section
7.1, and "application/cdniﬁlter+json", as described in Section 7.2. It also deﬁnes a new CDNI
Metadata Footprint Type (Section 7.3), two new ALTO entity domain types (Section 7.4), and a
new ALTO entity property type (Section 7.5).

7.1.  application/alto-cdni+json Media Type

Type name:

application

Subtype name:

alto-cdni+json

Required parameters:

N/A

Optional parameters:

N/A

Encoding considerations:

Encoding considerations are identical to those speciﬁed for the "application/json" media type.
See

[RFC8259]

.

Security considerations:

Security considerations related to the generation and consumption of ALTO Protocol
messages are discussed in

Section 15 of [RFC7285]

.

Interoperability considerations:

N/A

Published speciﬁcation:
Section 3 of RFC 9241

Applications that use this media type:
ALTO servers and ALTO clients
applications that provide CDNI interfaces for uCDNs or dCDNs.

[RFC7285]

 either stand alone or are embedded within other

Fragment identiﬁer considerations:

N/A

Seedorf, et al.

Standards Track

Page 34

RFC 9241

CDNI FCI Using ALTO

July 2022

Additional information:
Magic number(s):

N/A

File extension(s):

N/A

Macintosh ﬁle type code(s):

N/A

Person & email address to contact for further information:

See Authors' Addresses section.

Intended usage:
COMMON

Restrictions on usage:

N/A

Author:

See Authors' Addresses section.

Change controller:

Internet Engineering Task Force (iesg@ietf.org)

7.2.  application/alto-cdniﬁlter+json Media Type

Type name:

application

Subtype name:

alto-cdniﬁlter+json

Required parameters:

N/A

Optional parameters:

N/A

Encoding considerations:

Encoding considerations are identical to those speciﬁed for the "application/json" media type.
See

[RFC8259]

.

Security considerations:

Security considerations related to the generation and consumption of ALTO Protocol
messages are discussed in

Section 15 of [RFC7285]

.

Interoperability considerations:

N/A

Published speciﬁcation:
Section 5 of RFC 9241

Seedorf, et al.

Standards Track

Page 35

RFC 9241

CDNI FCI Using ALTO

July 2022

Applications that use this media type:
ALTO servers and ALTO clients
applications that provide CDNI interfaces for uCDNs or dCDNs and supports CDNI capability-
based ﬁltering.

 either stand alone or are embedded within other

[RFC7285]

Fragment identiﬁer considerations:

N/A

Additional information:
Magic number(s):

N/A

File extension(s):

N/A

Macintosh ﬁle type code(s):

N/A

Person & email address to contact for further information:

See Authors' Addresses section.

Intended usage:
COMMON

Restrictions on usage:

N/A

Author:

See Authors' Addresses section.

Change controller:

Internet Engineering Task Force (iesg@ietf.org)

7.3.  CDNI Metadata Footprint Types Registry

This document updates the "CDNI Metadata Footprint Types" registry created by
[RFC8006]

. A new footprint type, which is listed in Table 1, has been registered.

Section 7.2 of

Footprint Type Description

Reference

altopid

A list of PID names

RFC 9241, Section 4

Table 1: CDNI Metadata Footprint Type

7.4.  ALTO Entity Domain Types Registry

This document updates the "ALTO Entity Domain Types" registry created by
[RFC9240]

Section 11.2 of
. Two new entity domain types, which are listed in Table 2, have been registered.

Seedorf, et al.

Standards Track

Page 36

RFC 9241

CDNI FCI Using ALTO

July 2022

Identiﬁer

asn

countrycode

Entity
Identiﬁer
Encoding

See RFC 9241,
Section 6.1.1.2

See RFC 9241,
Section 6.1.2.2

Hierarchy and
Inheritance

Media Type of
Deﬁning
Resource

Mapping to
ALTO Address
Type

None

None

None

None

false

false

Table 2: Additional ALTO Entity Domain Types

7.5.  ALTO Entity Property Types Registry

This document updates the "ALTO Entity Property Types" registry created by
[RFC9240]

. A new entity property type, which is listed in Table 3, has been registered.

Section 11.3 of

Identiﬁer

Intended Semantics

Media Type of Deﬁning Resource

cdni-capabilities

See RFC 9241, Section 6.2

application/alto-cdni+json

Table 3: Additional ALTO Entity Property Type

8.  Security Considerations

As an extension of the base ALTO Protocol
the base protocol, and hence Security Considerations of the base protocol (
) fully apply when this extension is provided by an ALTO server.
[RFC7285]

[RFC7285]

, this document ﬁts into the architecture of

Section 15 of

In the context of CDNI Advertisement, the following security risk scenarios should be considered:

•

Authenticity and integrity of ALTO information: an attacker may disguise itself as an ALTO
server for a dCDN (e.g., by starting a on-path attack) and provide false capabilities and
footprints to a uCDN using the CDNI Advertisement Service. Such false information may lead
a uCDN to (1) select an incorrect dCDN to serve user requests or (2) skip uCDNs in good
conditions. To address this risk, protection strategies in
applied.

Section 15.1.2 of [RFC7285]

 can be

•

Potential undesirable guidance from authenticated ALTO information: a dCDN can provide a
uCDN with limited capabilities and smaller footprint coverage so that the dCDN can avoid
transferring traﬃc for a uCDN that they should have to transfer. To reduce this risk, the
protection strategies in

Section 15.2.2 of [RFC7285]

 can be considered.

•

Conﬁdentiality and privacy of ALTO information: footprint properties integrated with ALTO
property maps may expose network location identiﬁers (e.g., IP addresses or ﬁne-grained
PIDs). To address this risk, the protection strategy for risk types (1) and (3) as described in
Section 15.3 of [RFC7285]

 can be considered.

•

For availability of ALTO services, an attacker may conduct service-degradation attacks using
services deﬁned in this document to disable ALTO services of a network. It may request

Seedorf, et al.

Standards Track

Page 37

RFC 9241

CDNI FCI Using ALTO

July 2022

potentially large, full CDNI Advertisement resources from an ALTO server in a dCDN
continuously in order to consume the bandwidth resources of that ALTO server. It may also
query ﬁltered property Map Services with many smaller individual footprints in order to
consume the computation resources of the ALTO server. To mitigate these risks, the
protection strategies in

Section 15.5.2 of [RFC7285]

 can be applied.

Although protection strategies as described in
 should be applied to
address aforementioned security and privacy considerations, two special cases need to be
included as follows:

Section 15 of [RFC7285]

•

As required by

Section 7 of [RFC8008]

,

All protocols that implement these capabilities and footprint advertisement objects
are

 to provide integrity and authentication services.

REQUIRED

Therefore, the uCDN (ALTO Client)
dCDN (ALTO Server)
support TLS mutual authentication
[RFC8446]
negotiated out of band and is out of scope for this document, as is the approach for
provisioning and managing these credentials.

[RFC7616]
. The authentication method will need to be

 support HTTP Digest Authentication

 be authenticated to the dCDN (ALTO Server). And the

 and

MUST

MUST

 also

MAY

•

One speciﬁc information leakage risk introduced by this document cannot be addressed by
these strategies. In particular, if a dCDN A signs agreements with multiple uCDNs without any
isolation, dCDN A may disclose extra information of one uCDN to another one. In that case,
one uCDN may redirect requests that should not have to be served by dCDN A to dCDN A.

SHOULD

To reduce the risk, a dCDN
for diﬀerent uCDNs. It could consider generating URIs of diﬀerent full and/or ﬁltered CDNI
Advertisement resources by hashing its company ID, a uCDN's company ID as well as their
agreements. A dCDN
resources in one of its IRDs.

 avoid exposing all full and/or ﬁltered CDNI Advertisement

 isolate full and/or ﬁltered CDNI Advertisement resources

SHOULD

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[ISO3166-1]

[RFC2119]

International Organization for Standardization "Codes for the representation of
names of countries and their subdivisions -- Part 1: Country codes" ISO
3166-1:2020

, August 2020.

,

,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
,
.
rfc2119>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

Seedorf, et al.

Standards Track

Page 38

RFC 9241

CDNI FCI Using ALTO

July 2022

[RFC6793]

[RFC7285]

[RFC7493]

[RFC7616]

[RFC8006]

[RFC8008]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8259]

[RFC8446]

[RFC8895]

[RFC9240]

E. Chen "BGP Support for Four-Octet Autonomous System (AS)

 and

Vohra, Q.
Number Space" RFC 6793 DOI 10.17487/RFC6793
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6793>
.

,

,

, December 2012,

<https://

,
, and

Alimi, R., Ed. Penno, R., Ed. Yang, Y., Ed. Kiesel, S. Previdi, S. Roome, W.
,
Shalunov, S.
Protocol" RFC 7285 DOI 10.17487/RFC7285
.
editor.org/info/rfc7285>

R. Woundy "Application-Layer Traﬃc Optimization (ALTO)
<https://www.rfc-

, September 2014,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,
,
Bray, T., Ed. "The I-JSON Message Format" RFC 7493 DOI 10.17487/RFC7493
March 2015,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7493>

,

,

Shekh-Yusef, R., Ed. Ahrens, D.
,
Authentication" RFC 7616 DOI 10.17487/RFC7616
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7616>

S. Bremer "HTTP Digest Access
, September 2015,

, and

,

,

,

<https://

,

Niven-Jenkins, B. Murray, R. Caulﬁeld, M.
Interconnection (CDNI) Metadata" RFC 8006 DOI 10.17487/RFC8006
2016,

, and
,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8006>

,

,

,

K. Ma "Content Delivery Network

, December

,

,

K. Ma "Content
Seedorf, J. Peterson, J. Previdi, S. van Brandenburg, R.
Delivery Network Interconnection (CDNI) Request Routing: Footprint and
, December 2016,
Capabilities Semantics" RFC 8008 DOI 10.17487/RFC8008
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8008>

, and

,

,

,

,

,
,
Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
.
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,
Bray, T., Ed. "The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data Interchange Format"
STD 90 RFC 8259 DOI 10.17487/RFC8259
.
editor.org/info/rfc8259>

<https://www.rfc-

, December 2017,

,

,

,
,
Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>

, August 2018,

,

 and

Y. Yang "Application-Layer Traﬃc Optimization (ALTO)

Roome, W.
Incremental Updates Using Server-Sent Events (SSE)" RFC 8895 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8895

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8895>

, November 2020,

,

,

,

,

Roome, W. Randriamasy, S. Yang, Y. Zhang, J.
,
Application-Layer Traﬃc Optimization (ALTO): Entity Property Maps" RFC 9240
DOI 10.17487/RFC9240

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9240>

K. Gao "An Extension for

, July 2022,

, and

,

,

,

,

9.2.  Informative References

[ALTO-PATH-VECTOR]

Gao, K. Lee, Y. Randriamasy, S. Yang, Y. R.

,

,

,

, and

J. J. Zhang "An ALTO
,

Extension: Path Vector" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-alto-path-
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-alto-
vector-25
.
path-vector-25>

,
, 20 March 2022,

,

Seedorf, et al.

Standards Track

Page 39

RFC 9241

CDNI FCI Using ALTO

July 2022

[RFC5693]

[RFC6707]

[RFC7971]

[RFC7975]

Seedorf, J.
 and
Statement" RFC 5693 DOI 10.17487/RFC5693
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc5693>
.

,

E. Burger "Application-Layer Traﬃc Optimization (ALTO) Problem

, October 2009,

<https://www.rfc-

,

N. Bitar "Content Distribution Network
Niven-Jenkins, B. Le Faucheur, F.
Interconnection (CDNI) Problem Statement" RFC 6707 DOI 10.17487/RFC6707
,
September 2012,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6707>
.

, and

,
,

,

,

,
Stiemerling, M. Kiesel, S. Scharf, M. Seidel, H.
Traﬃc Optimization (ALTO) Deployment Considerations" RFC 7971 DOI
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7971>
10.17487/RFC7971

, October 2016,

S. Previdi "Application-Layer

, and

,

,

,

,

Niven-Jenkins, B., Ed.
Interface for Content Delivery Network (CDN) Interconnection" RFC 7975 DOI
10.17487/RFC7975

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7975>

R. van Brandenburg, Ed. "Request Routing Redirection

, October 2016,

 and

,

,

Acknowledgments

,

Matt Caulﬁeld Danny Alex Lachos Perez Daryl Malas

The authors thank
 for
their timely reviews and invaluable comments. Big thanks also to the ALTO WG Chairs (
Qin Wu
and
,
), all the directorate reviewers, and the IESG reviewers (
Vijay Gurbani
,
Martin Vigoureux Murray Kucherawy Roman Danyliw Zaheduzzaman Sarker Éric Vyncke
Francesca Palombini
further improve this document.

), for their thorough reviews, discussions, guidance, and shepherding, which

,
Martin Duke Erik Kline
, and

Sanjay Mishra

, and

,

,

,

,

 has been partially supported by the GreenICN project (GreenICN: Architecture and

Jan Seedorf
Applications of Green Information Centric Networking), a research project supported jointly by
the European Commission under its 7th Framework Program (contract no. 608518) and the
National Institute of Information and Communications Technology (NICT) in Japan (contract no.
167). The views and conclusions contained herein are those of the authors and should not be
interpreted as necessarily representing the oﬃcial policies or endorsements, either expressed or
implied, of the GreenICN project, the European Commission, or NICT.

This document has also been supported by the Coordination Support Action entitled 'Supporting
European Experts Presence in International Standardisation Activities in ICT' (StandICT.eu)
funded by the European Commission under the Horizon 2020 Programme with Grant Agreement
no. 780439. The views and conclusions contained herein are those of the authors and should not
be interpreted as necessarily representing the oﬃcial policies or endorsements, either expressed
or implied, of the European Commission.

Seedorf, et al.

Standards Track

Page 40

RFC 9241

CDNI FCI Using ALTO

July 2022

Contributors

Xiao Shawn Lin
Huawei
2222 Newjinqiao Rd
Shanghai
200125
China
Phone:
Email:

 +86-15316812351
 x.shawn.lin@gmail.com

Authors' Addresses

Jan Seedorf
HFT Stuttgart - Univ. of Applied Sciences
Schellingstrasse 24
70174 Stuttgart
Germany
Phone:
Email:

 +49-0711-8926-2801
 jan.seedorf@hft-stuttgart.de

Y. Richard Yang
Yale University
51 Prospect Street
New Haven CT 06511
,
United States of America
Phone:
Email:
URI:

 +1-203-432-6400
 yry@cs.yale.edu

 http://www.cs.yale.edu/~yry/

Kevin J. Ma
Ericsson
43 Nagog Park
Acton MA 01720
,
United States of America
Phone:
Email:

 +1-978-844-5100
 kevin.j.ma.ietf@gmail.com

Jon Peterson
NeuStar
1800 Sutter St., Suite 570
Concord CA 94520
,
United States of America
Email:

 jon.peterson@neustar.biz

Seedorf, et al.

Standards Track

Page 41

RFC 9241

CDNI FCI Using ALTO

July 2022

Jingxuan Jensen Zhang
Tongji University
4800 Cao'an Hwy
Shanghai
201804
China
Email:

 jingxuan.zhang@tongji.edu.cn

Seedorf, et al.

Standards Track

Page 42

