Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9309
Standards Track
September 2022
2070-1721
M. Koster

G. Illyes
Google LLC

H. Zeller
Google LLC

L. Sassman
Google LLC

RFC 9309
Robots Exclusion Protocol

Abstract

This document specifies and extends the "Robots Exclusion Protocol" method originally defined
by Martijn Koster in 1994 for service owners to control how content served by their services may
be accessed, if at all, by automatic clients known as crawlers. Specifically, it adds definition
language for the protocol, instructions for handling errors, and instructions for caching.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9309
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Koster, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9309

Robots Exclusion Protocol (REP)

September 2022

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

2.  Specification

2.1.  Protocol Definition

2.2.  Formal Syntax

2.2.1.  The User-Agent Line

2.2.2.  The "Allow" and "Disallow" Lines

2.2.3.  Special Characters

2.2.4.  Other Records

2.3.  Access Method

2.3.1.  Access Results

2.3.1.1.  Successful Access

2.3.1.2.  Redirects

2.3.1.3.  "Unavailable" Status

2.3.1.4.  "Unreachable" Status

2.3.1.5.  Parsing Errors

2.4.  Caching

2.5.  Limits

3.  Security Considerations

4.  IANA Considerations

5.  Examples

5.1.  Simple Example

5.2.  Longest Match

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

6.2.  Informative References

Authors' Addresses

Koster, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9309

Robots Exclusion Protocol (REP)

September 2022

1.  Introduction

This document applies to services that provide resources that clients can access through URIs as
defined in
. For example, in the context of HTTP, a browser is a client that displays the
content of a web page.

[RFC3986]

Crawlers are automated clients. Search engines, for instance, have crawlers to recursively
[RFC8288]
.
traverse links for indexing as defined in

It may be inconvenient for service owners if crawlers visit the entirety of their URI space. This
document specifies the rules originally defined by the "Robots Exclusion Protocol"
that crawlers are requested to honor when accessing URIs.

[ROBOTSTXT]

These rules are not a form of access authorization.

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Specification

2.1.  Protocol Definition

The protocol language consists of rule(s) and group(s) that the service makes available in a file
named "robots.txt" as described in Section 2.3:

Rule:

A line with a key-value pair that defines how a crawler may access URIs. See Section 2.2.2.

Group:

One or more user-agent lines that are followed by one or more rules. The group is

terminated by a user-agent line or end of file. See Section 2.2.1. The last group may have no
rules, which means it implicitly allows everything.

2.2.  Formal Syntax

Below is an Augmented Backus-Naur Form (ABNF) description, as described in

[RFC5234]
.

Koster, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9309

Robots Exclusion Protocol (REP)

September 2022

 robotstxt = *(group / emptyline)
 group = startgroupline                ; We start with a user-agent
                                       ; line
        *(startgroupline / emptyline)  ; ... and possibly more
                                       ; user-agent lines
        *(rule / emptyline)            ; followed by rules relevant
                                       ; for the preceding
                                       ; user-agent lines

 startgroupline = *WS "user-agent" *WS ":" *WS product-token EOL

 rule = *WS ("allow" / "disallow") *WS ":"
       *WS (path-pattern / empty-pattern) EOL

 ; parser implementors: define additional lines you need (for
 ; example, Sitemaps).

 product-token = identifier / "*"
 path-pattern = "/" *UTF8-char-noctl ; valid URI path pattern
 empty-pattern = *WS

 identifier = 1*(%x2D / %x41-5A / %x5F / %x61-7A)
 comment = "#" *(UTF8-char-noctl / WS / "#")
 emptyline = EOL
 EOL = *WS [comment] NL ; end-of-line may have
                        ; optional trailing comment
 NL = %x0D / %x0A / %x0D.0A
 WS = %x20 / %x09

 ; UTF8 derived from RFC 3629, but excluding control characters

 UTF8-char-noctl = UTF8-1-noctl / UTF8-2 / UTF8-3 / UTF8-4
 UTF8-1-noctl = %x21 / %x22 / %x24-7F ; excluding control, space, "#"
 UTF8-2 = %xC2-DF UTF8-tail
 UTF8-3 = %xE0 %xA0-BF UTF8-tail / %xE1-EC 2UTF8-tail /
          %xED %x80-9F UTF8-tail / %xEE-EF 2UTF8-tail
 UTF8-4 = %xF0 %x90-BF 2UTF8-tail / %xF1-F3 3UTF8-tail /
          %xF4 %x80-8F 2UTF8-tail

 UTF8-tail = %x80-BF

2.2.1.  The User-Agent Line

MUST

Crawlers set their own name, which is called a product token, to find relevant groups. The
product token
("_"), and hyphens ("-"). The product token
the crawler sends to the service. For example, in the case of HTTP
SHOULD
purpose of the crawler. Here's an example of a User-Agent HTTP request header with a link
pointing to a page describing the purpose of the ExampleBot crawler, which appears as a
substring in the User-Agent HTTP header and as a product token in the robots.txt user-agent line:

 contain only uppercase and lowercase letters ("a-z" and "A-Z"), underscores
 be a substring of the identification string that
, the product token
 describe the

 be a substring in the User-Agent header. The identification string

[RFC9110]

SHOULD

SHOULD

Koster, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9309

Robots Exclusion Protocol (REP)

September 2022

+==========================================+========================+
| User-Agent HTTP header                   | robots.txt user-agent  |
|                                          | line                   |
+==========================================+========================+
| User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (compatible;     | user-agent: ExampleBot |
| ExampleBot/0.1;                          |                        |
| https://www.example.com/bot.html)        |                        |
+------------------------------------------+------------------------+

Figure 1: Example of a User-Agent HTTP header and robots.txt user-agent line for the ExampleBot
product token

Note that the product token (ExampleBot) is a substring of the User-Agent HTTP header.

MUST

Crawlers
 use case-insensitive matching to find the group that matches the product token
and then obey the rules of the group. If there is more than one group matching the user-agent,
 be combined into one group and parsed according to Section
the matching groups' rules
2.2.2.

MUST

+========================================+========================+
| Two groups that match the same product | Merged group           |
| token exactly                          |                        |
+========================================+========================+
| user-agent: ExampleBot                 | user-agent: ExampleBot |
| disallow: /foo                         | disallow: /foo         |
| disallow: /bar                         | disallow: /bar         |
|                                        | disallow: /baz         |
| user-agent: ExampleBot                 |                        |
| disallow: /baz                         |                        |
+----------------------------------------+------------------------+

Figure 2: Example of how to merge two robots.txt groups that match the same product token

If no matching group exists, crawlers
value, if present.

MUST

 obey the group with a user-agent line with the "*"

+==================================+======================+
| Two groups that don't explicitly | Applicable group for |
| match ExampleBot                 | ExampleBot           |
+==================================+======================+
| user-agent: *                    | user-agent: *        |
| disallow: /foo                   | disallow: /foo       |
| disallow: /bar                   | disallow: /bar       |
|                                  |                      |
| user-agent: BazBot               |                      |
| disallow: /baz                   |                      |
+----------------------------------+----------------------+

Figure 3: Example of no matching groups other than the "*" for the ExampleBot product token

If no group matches the product token and there is no group with a user-agent line with the "*"
value, or no groups are present at all, no rules apply.

Koster, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9309

Robots Exclusion Protocol (REP)

September 2022

2.2.2.  The "Allow" and "Disallow" Lines

These lines indicate whether accessing a URI that matches the corresponding path is allowed or
disallowed.

MUST

To evaluate if access to a URI is allowed, a crawler
"disallow" rules against the URI. The matching
start with the first octet of the path. The most specific match found
specific match is the match that has the most octets. Duplicate rules in a group
deduplicated. If an "allow" rule and a "disallow" rule are equivalent, then the "allow" rule
SHOULD
there are no rules in the group, the URI is allowed. The /robots.txt URI is implicitly allowed.

 match the paths in "allow" and
 be case sensitive. The matching

 be used. The most
MAY

 be used. If no match is found amongst the rules in a group for a matching user-agent or

SHOULD

MUST

MUST

 be

Octets in the URI and robots.txt paths outside the range of the ASCII coded character set, and
those in the reserved range defined by
[RFC3986]

 be percent-encoded as defined by

 prior to comparison.

[RFC3986] MUST

,

If a percent-encoded ASCII octet is encountered in the URI, it
comparison, unless it is a reserved character in the URI as defined by
is outside the unreserved character range. The match evaluates positively if and only if the end
of the path from the rule is reached before a difference in octets is encountered.

 be unencoded prior to

 or the character

[RFC3986]

MUST

For example:

+==================+=======================+=======================+
| Path             | Encoded Path          | Path to Match         |
+==================+=======================+=======================+
| /foo/bar?baz=quz | /foo/bar?baz=quz      | /foo/bar?baz=quz      |
+------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| /foo/bar?baz=    | /foo/bar?baz=         | /foo/bar?baz=         |
| https://foo.bar  | https%3A%2F%2Ffoo.bar | https%3A%2F%2Ffoo.bar |
+------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| /foo/bar/        | /foo/bar/%E3%83%84    | /foo/bar/%E3%83%84    |
| U+E38384         |                       |                       |
+------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| /foo/            | /foo/bar/%E3%83%84    | /foo/bar/%E3%83%84    |
| bar/%E3%83%84    |                       |                       |
+------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| /foo/            | /foo/bar/%62%61%7A    | /foo/bar/baz          |
| bar/%62%61%7A    |                       |                       |
+------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+

Figure 4: Examples of matching percent-encoded URI components

The crawler
any rule that precedes the first user-agent line).

SHOULD

 ignore "disallow" and "allow" rules that are not in any group (for example,

Implementors
encoded.

MAY

 bridge encoding mismatches if they detect that the robots.txt file is not UTF-8

Koster, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9309

Robots Exclusion Protocol (REP)

September 2022

2.2.3.  Special Characters

Crawlers

MUST

 support the following special characters:

+===========+===================+==============================+
| Character | Description       | Example                      |
+===========+===================+==============================+
| #         | Designates a line | allow: / # comment in line   |
|           | comment.          |                              |
|           |                   | # comment on its own line    |
+-----------+-------------------+------------------------------+
| $         | Designates the    | allow: /this/path/exactly$   |
|           | end of the match  |                              |
|           | pattern.          |                              |
+-----------+-------------------+------------------------------+
| *         | Designates 0 or   | allow: /this/*/exactly       |
|           | more instances of |                              |
|           | any character.    |                              |
+-----------+-------------------+------------------------------+

Figure 5: List of special characters in robots.txt files

If crawlers match special characters verbatim in the URI, crawlers
example:

SHOULD

 use "%" encoding. For

+============================+====================================+
| Percent-encoded Pattern    | URI                                |
+============================+====================================+
| /path/file-with-a-%2A.html | https://www.example.com/path/      |
|                            | file-with-a-*.html                 |
+----------------------------+------------------------------------+
| /path/foo-%24              | https://www.example.com/path/foo-$ |
+----------------------------+------------------------------------+

Figure 6: Example of percent-encoding

2.2.4.  Other Records

MAY

Crawlers
"Sitemaps"
. Crawlers
crawlers may accept common misspellings of the record.

 interpret other records that are not part of the robots.txt protocol -- for example,
 be lenient when interpreting other records. For example,

[SITEMAPS]

MAY

Parsing of other records
Section 2. For example, a "Sitemaps" record

 interfere with the parsing of explicitly defined records in
 terminate a group.

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

2.3.  Access Method

MUST

The rules
the service. The file
MUST
"text/plain" (as defined in

 be accessible in a file named "/robots.txt" (all lowercase) in the top-level path of
) and Internet Media Type

[RFC3629]

 be UTF-8 encoded (as defined in
[RFC2046]

).

Koster, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9309

Robots Exclusion Protocol (REP)

September 2022

As per

[RFC3986]

, the URI of the robots.txt file is:

"scheme:[//authority]/robots.txt"

For example, in the context of HTTP or FTP, the URI is:

          https://www.example.com/robots.txt

          ftp://ftp.example.com/robots.txt

2.3.1.  Access Results

2.3.1.1.  Successful Access

If the crawler successfully downloads the robots.txt file, the crawler
rules.

MUST

 follow the parseable

2.3.1.2.  Redirects

It's possible that a server responds to a robots.txt fetch request with a redirect, such as HTTP 301
or HTTP 302 in the case of HTTP. The crawlers
 follow at least five consecutive redirects,
even across authorities (for example, hosts in the case of HTTP).

SHOULD

If a robots.txt file is reached within five consecutive redirects, the robots.txt file
parsed, and its rules followed in the context of the initial authority.

MUST

 be fetched,

If there are more than five consecutive redirects, crawlers
unavailable.

MAY

 assume that the robots.txt file is

2.3.1.3.  "Unavailable" Status

"Unavailable" means the crawler tries to fetch the robots.txt file and the server responds with
status codes indicating that the resource in question is unavailable. For example, in the context
of HTTP, such status codes are in the 400-499 range.

If a server status code indicates that the robots.txt file is unavailable to the crawler, then the
crawler

 access any resources on the server.

MAY

2.3.1.4.  "Unreachable" Status

If the robots.txt file is unreachable due to server or network errors, this means the robots.txt file
is undefined and the crawler
HTTP, server errors are identified by status codes in the 500-599 range.

 assume complete disallow. For example, in the context of

MUST

If the robots.txt file is undefined for a reasonably long period of time (for example, 30 days),
crawlers
continue to use a cached copy.

 assume that the robots.txt file is unavailable as defined in Section 2.3.1.3 or

MAY

2.3.1.5.  Parsing Errors

Crawlers

MUST

 try to parse each line of the robots.txt file. Crawlers

MUST

 use the parseable rules.

Koster, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9309

Robots Exclusion Protocol (REP)

September 2022

2.4.  Caching

MAY

Crawlers
control as defined in
hours, unless the robots.txt file is unreachable.

. Crawlers

[RFC9111]

 cache the fetched robots.txt file's contents. Crawlers

MAY

 use standard cache

SHOULD NOT

 use the cached version for more than 24

2.5.  Limits

Crawlers
MUST

 be at least 500 kibibytes

[KiB]
.

SHOULD

 impose a parsing limit to protect their systems; see Section 3. The parsing limit

3.  Security Considerations

The Robots Exclusion Protocol is not a substitute for valid content security measures. Listing
paths in the robots.txt file exposes them publicly and thus makes the paths discoverable. To
control access to the URI paths in a robots.txt file, users of the protocol should employ a valid
security measure relevant to the application layer on which the robots.txt file is served -- for
example, in the case of HTTP, HTTP Authentication as defined in

[RFC9110]
.

To protect against attacks against their system, implementors of robots.txt parsing and matching
logic should take the following considerations into account:

Memory management:

Section 2.5 defines the lower limit of bytes that must be processed,

which inherently also protects the parser from out-of-memory scenarios.

Invalid characters:

Section 2.2 defines a set of characters that parsers and matchers can expect

in robots.txt files. Out-of-bound characters should be rejected as invalid, which limits the
available attack vectors that attempt to compromise the system.

Untrusted content:

Implementors should treat the content of a robots.txt file as untrusted
content, as defined by the specification of the application layer used. For example, in the
context of HTTP, implementors should follow the Security Considerations section of
[RFC9110]

.

4.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

5.  Examples

5.1.  Simple Example

The following example shows:

Koster, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9309

Robots Exclusion Protocol (REP)

September 2022

*:

A group that's relevant to all user agents that don't have an explicitly defined matching
group. It allows access to the URLs with the /publications/ path prefix, and it restricts access to
the URLs with the /example/ path prefix and to all URLs with a .gif suffix. The "*" character
designates any character, including the otherwise-required forward slash; see Section 2.2.

foobot:

A regular case. A single user agent followed by rules. The crawler only has access to two
URL path prefixes on the site -- /example/page.html and /example/allowed.gif. The rules of the
group are missing the optional space character, which is acceptable as defined in Section 2.2.

barbot and bazbot:

A group that's relevant for more than one user agent. The crawlers are not

allowed to access the URLs with the /example/page.html path prefix but otherwise have
unrestricted access to the rest of the URLs on the site.

quxbot:

An empty group at the end of the file. The crawler has unrestricted access to the URLs

on the site.

            User-Agent: *
            Disallow: *.gif$
            Disallow: /example/
            Allow: /publications/

            User-Agent: foobot
            Disallow:/
            Allow:/example/page.html
            Allow:/example/allowed.gif

            User-Agent: barbot
            User-Agent: bazbot
            Disallow: /example/page.html

            User-Agent: quxbot

            EOF

5.2.  Longest Match

The following example shows that in the case of two rules, the longest one is used for matching.
In the following case, /example/page/disallowed.gif
example/page/disallow.gif.

 be used for the URI example.com/

MUST

            User-Agent: foobot
            Allow: /example/page/
            Disallow: /example/page/disallowed.gif

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

[RFC2046]

Koster, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9309

Robots Exclusion Protocol (REP)

September 2022

 and

Freed, N.
,
Part Two: Media Types" RFC 2046 DOI 10.17487/RFC2046
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2046>

N. Borenstein "Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME)
, November 1996,

,

,

.

[RFC2119]

[RFC3629]

[RFC3986]

[RFC5234]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8288]

[RFC9110]

[RFC9111]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Yergeau, F. "UTF-8, a transformation format of ISO 10646" STD 63 RFC 3629
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC3629
rfc3629>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, November 2003,

,

,

.

,

,

Berners-Lee, T. Fielding, R.
, and
Generic Syntax" STD 66 RFC 3986 DOI 10.17487/RFC3986
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3986>

,

,

,

.

L. Masinter "Uniform Resource Identifier (URI):

,

, January 2005,

Crocker, D., Ed.
 and
ABNF" STD 68 RFC 5234 DOI 10.17487/RFC5234
,
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5234>

,

.

P. Overell "Augmented BNF for Syntax Specifications:

,

, January 2008,

<https://

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Nottingham, M. "Web Linking" RFC 8288 DOI 10.17487/RFC8288
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8288>

,
.

,

, October 2017,

,

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
97 RFC 9110 DOI 10.17487/RFC9110
rfc9110>

,

,

.

, and
, June 2022,

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP Semantics" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

,

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
98 RFC 9111 DOI 10.17487/RFC9111
rfc9111>

,

,

.

, and
, June 2022,

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP Caching" STD

,

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

6.2.  Informative References

[KiB]

[ROBOTSTXT]

[SITEMAPS]

"Kibibyte" Simple English Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
<https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kibibyte>

,

.

, 17 September 2020,

"The Web Robots Pages (including /robots.txt)" 2007 <https://www.robotstxt.org/
>

,

.

,

"What are Sitemaps? (Sitemap protocol)" April 2020 <https://www.sitemaps.org/
,
index.html>

,

.

Koster, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9309

Robots Exclusion Protocol (REP)

September 2022

Authors' Addresses

Martijn Koster
Stalworthy Manor Farm
Suton Lane
Wymondham, Norfolk
NR18 9JG
United Kingdom
Email:

 m.koster@greenhills.co.uk

Gary Illyes
Google LLC
Brandschenkestrasse 110
CH-
Switzerland
Email:

8002 Zürich

 garyillyes@google.com

Henner Zeller
Google LLC
1600 Amphitheatre Pkwy
Mountain View CA 94043
United States of America
Email:

 henner@google.com

,

Lizzi Sassman
Google LLC
Brandschenkestrasse 110
CH-
Switzerland
Email:

 lizzi@google.com

8002 Zürich

Koster, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

