Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9895
Standards Track
January 2026
2070-1721
D. Wiggins

L. Berger
LabN Consulting, L.L.C.

D. Eastlake 3rd, Ed.
Independent

RFC 9895
Dynamic Link Exchange Protocol (DLEP) IEEE
802.1Q Aware Credit Window Extension

Abstract

This document defines an extension to the Dynamic Link Exchange Protocol (DLEP) that enables
an Ethernet IEEE 802.1Q aware credit window scheme for destination-specific and shared flow
control.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9895
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2026 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Wiggins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9895

DLEP Ethernet Credit Extension

January 2026

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Key Words

2.  Extension Usage and Identification

3.  Management Considerations

4.  Security Considerations

5.  IANA Considerations

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

6.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

2

3

3

3

4

4

5

5

5

5

6

The Dynamic Link Exchange Protocol (DLEP) is defined in
exchange of link-related control information between DLEP peers. DLEP peers consist of a
modem and a router. DLEP defines a base set of mechanisms as well as support for possible
extensions. This document defines one such extension.

[RFC8175]

. The protocol provides the

The DLEP specification does not define any flow control mechanisms. While in theory various
flow control techniques could be implemented with DLEP, this document specifies a DLEP
extension that introduces an Ethernet-based flow control mechanism for traffic transmitted
from a router to a modem. This mechanism utilizes one or more logical "credit windows", each
of which is typically associated with a virtual or physical queue. The router leverages traffic flow
classification information provided by the modem to determine the appropriate credit window
for a given traffic flow. Credit windows may be shared across multiple flows or used on a per-
. As
flow basis. For a Diffserv-based approach to credit window flow control, refer to
specified in
applied to a flow, Ethernet-based classification takes precedence.

, when both Diffserv and Ethernet traffic classification are

Section 2.3.1 of [RFC9892]

[RFC9894]

[RFC9892]

This document leverages the traffic classification and credit window flow control mechanisms
defined in
destinations, Ethernet Virtual Local Area Networks (VLANs), and Priority Code Points (PCPs).
Ethernet PCP support is specified as part of the IEEE 802.1Q tag format
includes a 3-bit "PCP" field. The tag format also incorporates a 12-bit "VLAN Identifier (VID)" field.

 to enable credit-window-based flow control based on DLEP

[IEEE8021Q]

[RFC9893]

, which

 and

Wiggins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9895

DLEP Ethernet Credit Extension

January 2026

The defined mechanism allows credit windows to be shared across traffic destined for multiple
DLEP destinations, VLANs, and PCPs, or to be dedicated exclusively to traffic associated with a
specific destination, VLAN, and/or PCP. Additionally, this extension supports "wildcard" matching
for any PCP or VID.

The extension defined in this document is referred to as the "IEEE 802.1Q Aware Credit Window"
or, more simply, the "Ethernet Credit" extension. The reader should be familiar with both the
traffic classification and credit window flow control mechanisms defined in
[RFC9893]
.

[RFC9892]

 and

This document defines a new DLEP Extension Type value that is used to indicate support for the
extension. See Section 2.

1.1.  Key Words

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Extension Usage and Identification

 and

[RFC9893]

. To indicate that the IEEE 802.1Q Aware Credit Window Extension is to

The extension defined in this document is built on the mechanisms and processing defined in
[RFC9892]
be used, an implementation
Type value in the Extensions Supported Data Item (see
Extensions Supported Data Item is sent and processed according to
implementation that indicates the use of the IEEE 802.1Q Aware Credit Window Extension
support all message types, Data Items, the Ethernet Traffic Classification Sub-Data Item, and all
related processing defined in

 include the IEEE 802.1Q Aware Credit Window Extension

Section 13.6 of [RFC8175]

[RFC9893]
.

[RFC8175]

[RFC9892]

). The

. Any

MUST

 and

MUST

The IEEE 802.1Q Aware Credit Window Extension Type value is 5. See Section 5.

3.  Management Considerations

This section provides several network management guidelines for implementations supporting
the IEEE 802.1Q Aware Credit Window Extension.

If this extension is supported, that support
Section 13.6 of [RFC8175]
Data Item (see
Diffserv Aware Credit Window Extension Data Items
 be emitted by a DLEP participant
unless such support was specified in the initialization message received from its peer. The use of
the extension defined in this document

 be declared using the Extensions Supported
), which is configurable on both modems and routers.

 be configurable on both modems and routers.

MUST NOT

SHOULD

MUST

Modems

SHOULD

 support the configuration of mapping a PCP to a credit window (queue).

Wiggins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9895

DLEP Ethernet Credit Extension

January 2026

MAY

 support the configuration of mapping a PCP to a credit window (queue) on a per-

Modems
VLAN basis. VID value zero (0x0000) is used by
0xFFFF is reserved. Any other VID value from 0x0001 through 0xFFFE can be used in traffic
classification.

 to indicate that the VID is ignored. VID

[RFC9892]

When VLANs are supported by a modem without support from PCPs, the modem
support the configuration of mapping a VLAN to a credit window (queue).

SHOULD

Modems
MAY
advertise to a router.

 support the configuration of the number of credit windows (queues) that they

Routers may impose limitations on the number of queues they can support and on the allowable
credit window configurations. In some cases, per-destination queues may not be supported. If
the credit window information provided by the modem exceeds the router's capabilities, the
router
MAY
reset the session and indicate that the extension is not supported. In either case, any mismatch
in capabilities
mechanisms, such as user interface notifications or error logging.

 utilize a subset of the advertised credit windows. Alternatively, the router

 be reported to the user through standard network management

SHOULD

SHOULD

Regardless of implementation, if credit windows are in use, the router
the modem unless sufficient credits are available.

MUST NOT

 send traffic to

4.  Security Considerations

This document defines a DLEP extension that uses DLEP mechanisms and the credit window
flow control mechanisms defined in
Considerations sections of those documents.

. See also the Security

[RFC9892]

[RFC9893]

 and

The defined extension is exposed to vulnerabilities similar to existing DLEP messages and
discussed in the Security Considerations section of
, such as an injected message
resizing a credit window to a value that results in a denial of service. The security mechanisms
documented in

 can be applied equally to the mechanism defined in this document.

[RFC8175]

[RFC8175]

Wildcards for matching PCP and VID fields are provided. Note that wildcards may be convenient
for matching a number of packet flows but could inadvertently match unexpected flows or new
flows that appear after the wildcard matching has been set up. It is therefore
that wildcards not be used unless clearly needed.

RECOMMENDED

5.  IANA Considerations

IANA has assigned the following code point in the "Extension Type Values" registry in the
"Dynamic Link Exchange Protocol (DLEP) Parameters" registry group:

Wiggins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9895

DLEP Ethernet Credit Extension

January 2026

Code Description

5

IEEE 802.1Q Aware Credit Window

Table 1: Extension Type Value

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

[IEEE8021Q]

[RFC2119]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8175]

[RFC9892]

[RFC9893]

,

IEEE "IEEE Standard for Local and Metropolitan Area Networks--Bridges and
Bridged Networks" DOI 10.1109/IEEESTD.2022.10004498 IEEE Std 802.1Q-2022
December 2022,

<https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/10004498>

,

,

.

,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

,

Ratliff, S. Jury, S. Satterwhite, D. Taylor, R.
Exchange Protocol (DLEP)" RFC 8175 DOI 10.17487/RFC8175
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8175>

B. Berry "Dynamic Link
, June 2017,

, and

,

,

,

,

.

<https://

,

Cheng, B. Wiggins, D. Berger, L.
Protocol (DLEP) Traffic Classification Data Item" RFC 9892 DOI 10.17487/
RFC9892

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9892>

D. Fedyk, Ed. "Dynamic Link Exchange

, January 2026,

, and

,

,

,

,

.

,

Cheng, B. Wiggins, D. Ratliff, S. Berger, L.
,
Exchange Protocol (DLEP) Credit-Based Flow Control Messages and Data Items"
RFC 9893 DOI 10.17487/RFC9893
, January 2026,
rfc9893>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

E. Kinzie, Ed. "Dynamic Link
,

, and

,
.

,

6.2.  Informative References

[RFC9894]

,

Cheng, B. Wiggins, D. Berger, L.
Exchange Protocol (DLEP) Diffserv Aware Credit Window Extension" RFC 9894
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9894>
DOI 10.17487/RFC9894
.

D. Eastlake 3rd, Ed. "Dynamic Link

, January 2026,

, and

,

,

,

Acknowledgments

This document was motivated by discussions in the MANET Working Group. Many useful
comments were received from contributors to the MANET Working Group, notably
Velt
.

Ronald in 't

Wiggins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9895

DLEP Ethernet Credit Extension

January 2026

We had the honor of working too briefly with
contribution to the IETF and publication of the first and definitive open-source DLEP
implementation have been critical to the acceptance of DLEP. We mourn his passing on
November 26, 2023. We wish to recognize his guidance, leadership, and professional excellence.
We were fortunate to benefit from his leadership and friendship. He shall be missed.

 on this and related DLEP work. His

David Wiggins

Authors' Addresses

David Wiggins

Lou Berger
LabN Consulting, L.L.C.
Email:

lberger@labn.net

editor
)

Donald E. Eastlake 3rd (
Independent
2386 Panoramic Circle
Apopka FL 32703
,
United States of America
Phone:
Email:

+1-508-333-2270
d3e3e3@gmail.com

Wiggins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

