Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9863
Standards Track
October 2025
2070-1721

B. Rajagopalan
Juniper Networks

V. Beeram
Juniper Networks

S. Peng
ZTE Corporation

M. Koldychev
Ciena Corporation

G. Mishra
Verizon Communications Inc.

RFC 9863
Path Computation Element Protocol (PCEP)
Extension for Color

Abstract

Color is a 32-bit numerical (unsigned integer) attribute used to associate a Traffic Engineering
(TE) tunnel or policy with an intent or objective. For example, a TE Tunnel constructed to deliver
low latency services and whose path is optimized for delay can be tagged with a color that
represents "low latency." This document specifies extensions to the Path Computation Element
Protocol (PCEP) to carry the color attribute.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9863
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Rajagopalan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9863

PCEP Color

October 2025

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

2.  Protocol Operation

3.  Protocol Extensions

3.1.  Color Capability

3.2.  COLOR TLV

4.  Security Considerations

5.  Manageability Considerations

5.1.  Control of Function through Configuration and Policy

5.2.  Information and Data Models

5.3.  Liveness Detection and Monitoring

5.4.  Verifying Correct Operation

5.5.  Requirements on Other Protocols

5.6.  Impact on Network Operation

6.  IANA Considerations

6.1.  PCEP TLV Type Indicator

6.2.  STATEFUL-PCE-CAPABILITY TLV Flag Field

6.3.  PCEP-Error Object

6.4.  LSP-ERROR-CODE TLV Error Code Field

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Contributors

3

3

3

4

4

4

5

5

5

5

6

6

6

6

6

6

6

7

7

7

7

8

9

9

Rajagopalan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9863

PCEP Color

October 2025

Authors' Addresses

10

1.  Introduction

[RFC3209]

A Traffic Engineering (TE) Tunnel
associated with an intent or objective (e.g., low latency) by tagging it with a color. This color
attribute is used as a guiding criterion for mapping services onto the TE Tunnel
Policy
color" specified in
[RFC3630] [RFC5329] [RFC5305]

 or SR
. The term "color" used in this document must not be interpreted as the "thread
 or the "resource color" (also referred to as "link color") specified in

 or Segment Routing (SR) policy

[RFC7308]
.

[RFC9256]

[RFC9256]

[RFC3063]

[RFC9012]

 can be

, and

,

,

[RFC8231]
 specifies extensions to the Path Computation Element Protocol (PCEP) that enable the
deployment of a stateful Path Computation Element (PCE) model. These extensions allow a Path
Computation Client (PCC) to delegate control of the Label Switched Paths (LSPs) associated with
its TE Tunnels to a stateful PCE.
and manage PCE-initiated LSPs on a PCC under the stateful PCE model.
extensions that enable stateful control of SR paths via PCEP.

 specifies extensions that allow a PCE to instantiate

[RFC8664]

[RFC8281]

 specifies

This document introduces extensions to PCEP to allow a color tag to be assigned to any TE path
operated under a stateful PCE model (including those set up using RSVP-TE
Segment Routing
MUST NOT
defined in
SR Policy identifier encoding.

 be used to carry the color attribute is for SR paths established using the extensions
[RFC9862]

. For these SR paths, the associated color is already included as part of the

). The only exception where the extensions defined in this document

[RFC8408]

[RFC8664]

 or

The mechanism employed by the PCC for mapping services onto a TE path associated with a
color attribute is outside the scope of this document, as is any other use of the color tag.

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Protocol Operation

When the PCEP session is created, a PCEP (PCE/PCC) speaker sends an Open message with an
OPEN object that contains the STATEFUL-PCE-CAPABILITY TLV, as defined in
STATEFUL-PCE-CAPABILITY TLV Flag (see Section 3.1) is introduced in this document to enable
the PCEP speaker to advertise color capability.

[RFC8231]

. A

Rajagopalan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9863

PCEP Color

October 2025

In PCRpt, PCUpd, and PCInitiate messages, the LSP object
inclusion and is used to carry information specific to the target LSP. A TLV called the COLOR TLV
 be carried in the LSP object, is introduced in this document to carry
(see Section 3.2), which
the color attribute associated with the LSP. Only one COLOR TLV
 be included in the LSP
object. If the COLOR TLV appears in the LSP object more than once, only the first occurrence is
processed, and any others

[RFC8231] [RFC8281]

 is a mandatory

 be ignored.

SHOULD

MUST

MAY

A PCEP speaker that has advertised color capability
LSP object to a PCEP Peer
advertises both color capability and SR Policy Association
 send
COLOR TLV encoded in the LSP object for SR Paths. The COLOR TLV is ignored if it shows up in
the LSP object of a message that carries an ASSOCIATION object of type SR Policy Association
[RFC9862]

. The color encoded in the SR Policy Association takes precedence in such a scenario.

 that has not advertised color capability. A PCEP speaker that

 send COLOR TLV encoded in the

 capability

[RFC5440]

[RFC9862]

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

If a PCC is unable to honor a color value passed in a PCUpd or a PCInitiate message, the PCC
reject the message and send a PCErr message with Error-Type=19 (Invalid Operation) and Error-
value=31 (Invalid color). This is expected behavior in scenarios where a PCC implementation
does not support a color value of zero for specific path setup types, and it receives that value in
the COLOR TLV of a PCUpd or a PCInitiate message.

MUST

[RFC8745]

, they are all expected to have the same color attached to them. If a PCEP

When LSPs that belong to the same TE Tunnel are within the same Path Protection Association
Group
speaker determines inconsistency in the color associated with the LSPs belonging to the same
 reject the message carrying the inconsistent color
Path Protection Association Group, it
and send a PCErr message with Error-Type=19 (Invalid Operation) and Error-value=32
(Inconsistent color).

MUST

3.  Protocol Extensions

3.1.  Color Capability

Section 7.1.1 of [RFC8231]
used to indicate if the speaker supports color capability:

 defines STATEFUL-PCE-CAPABILITY TLV flags. The following flag is

C-bit (Bit 20):

A PCE/PCC indicates that it supports the color capability defined in this document

by setting this bit.

3.2.  COLOR TLV

Rajagopalan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9863

PCEP Color

October 2025

   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |     Type                      |          Length=4             |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                             Color                             |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 1: COLOR TLV

Type:

67

Length:

4

Color:

4-byte field that carries the actual color value (specified as an unsigned integer). A value

of zero is allowed.

4.  Security Considerations

This document defines a TLV for color and a flag for color capability negotiation, which do not
add any security concerns beyond those discussed in

[RFC5440] [RFC8231]
,

[RFC8281]
.

, and

An unauthorized PCE may maliciously associate the LSP with an incorrect color. The procedures
described in

 can be used to protect against this attack.

[RFC9325]

[RFC8253]

 and

5.  Manageability Considerations

This section follows the advice and guidance of

[RFC6123]
.

5.1.  Control of Function through Configuration and Policy

An implementation supporting this document
 allow the operator to turn on and off the
PCEP color capability advertisement (Section 3.1). An implementation supporting this document
 allow the configuration of color assignment to a TE Tunnel or an SR Policy. A PCC
SHOULD
have a local policy configuration that specifies how the color tag is used. This policy
configuration is outside the scope of this document.

SHOULD

MAY

5.2.  Information and Data Models

An implementation supporting this document
model used to retrieve the operational state of a TE Tunnel or an SR Policy. The YANG model in
[YANG-TE]
[SR-POLICY-YANG]

 could be used to retrieve the operational state of a TE Tunnel, and the YANG model in

 could be used to retrieve the operational state of an SR Policy.

 allow the inclusion of color in the data

SHOULD

Rajagopalan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9863

PCEP Color

October 2025

5.3.  Liveness Detection and Monitoring

The extensions defined in this document do not require any additional liveness detection and
monitoring support. See

 for more information.

[RFC5886]

[RFC5440]

 and

5.4.  Verifying Correct Operation

The operator
correct intended color.

MAY

 retrieve the operational state of TE Paths to verify if they are tagged with the

5.5.  Requirements on Other Protocols

This document places no explicit requirements on other protocols.

5.6.  Impact on Network Operation

The impact on network operations depends on how the color tag is used in the deployment. This
is outside the scope of this document.

6.  IANA Considerations

6.1.  PCEP TLV Type Indicator

IANA has assigned a value in the "PCEP TLV Type Indicators" registry of the "Path Computation
Element Protocol (PCEP) Numbers" registry group as follows:

Value

Description

Reference

67

Color

RFC 9863

Table 1

6.2.  STATEFUL-PCE-CAPABILITY TLV Flag Field

IANA has assigned a bit value in the "STATEFUL-PCE-CAPABILITY TLV Flag Field" registry of the
"Path Computation Element Protocol (PCEP) Numbers" registry group as follows:

Value Description

Reference

20

COLOR-CAPABILITY

RFC 9863

Table 2

Rajagopalan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9863

PCEP Color

October 2025

6.3.  PCEP-Error Object

IANA has assigned two Error-values for Error-Type=19 (Invalid Operation) within the "PCEP-
ERROR Object Error Types and Values" registry of the "Path Computation Element Protocol
(PCEP) Numbers" registry group as follows:

Error-Type Meaning

Error-value

Reference

19

Invalid Operation

31: Invalid Color

RFC 9863

32: Inconsistent Color

RFC 9863

Table 3

6.4.  LSP-ERROR-CODE TLV Error Code Field

A draft version of this document added an error code in the "LSP-ERROR-CODE TLV Error Code
Field" registry of the "Path Computation Element Protocol (PCEP) Numbers" registry group,
which was also early allocated by the IANA.

IANA has marked it as deprecated.

Value Meaning

Reference

9

Deprecated (Unsupported Color)

RFC 9863

Table 4

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC5440]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8231]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

 and

Vasseur, JP., Ed.
Communication Protocol (PCEP)" RFC 5440 DOI 10.17487/RFC5440
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5440>

JL. Le Roux, Ed. "Path Computation Element (PCE)

,

,

.

, March 2009,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Crabbe, E. Minei, I. Medved, J.
Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for Stateful PCE" RFC 8231 DOI
10.17487/RFC8231

R. Varga "Path Computation Element

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8231>

, September 2017,

, and

,

,

,

,

.

Rajagopalan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9863

PCEP Color

October 2025

[RFC8253]

[RFC8281]

[RFC8408]

[RFC8664]

[RFC8745]

[RFC9012]

[RFC9325]

[RFC9862]

,

Lopez, D. Gonzalez de Dios, O. Wu, Q.
Provide a Secure Transport for the Path Computation Element Communication
Protocol (PCEP)" RFC 8253 DOI 10.17487/RFC8253
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8253>

D. Dhody "PCEPS: Usage of TLS to

, October 2017,

<https://

, and

,

,

,

.

,

,

Crabbe, E. Minei, I. Sivabalan, S.
R. Varga "Path Computation Element
Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for PCE-Initiated LSP Setup in a
Stateful PCE Model" RFC 8281 DOI 10.17487/RFC8281
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8281>

, December 2017,

, and

,

,

,

.

<https://

,

Sivabalan, S. Tantsura, J. Minei, I. Varga, R.
Setup Type in PCE Communication Protocol (PCEP) Messages" RFC 8408 DOI
10.17487/RFC8408

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8408>

J. Hardwick "Conveying Path

, July 2018,

, and

,
,

,

,

,

.

,

,

Sivabalan, S. Filsfils, C. Tantsura, J. Henderickx, W.
Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for Segment
Routing" RFC 8664 DOI 10.17487/RFC8664
editor.org/info/rfc8664>

J. Hardwick "Path

, December 2019,

<https://www.rfc-

, and

,

,

,

,

.

,

Ananthakrishnan, H. Sivabalan, S. Barth, C. Minei, I.
,
Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for
Associating Working and Protection Label Switched Paths (LSPs) with Stateful
PCE" RFC 8745 DOI 10.17487/RFC8745
info/rfc8745>

M. Negi "Path

, March 2020,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, and

,

,

,

,

.

,

Patel, K. Van de Velde, G. Sangli, S.
Encapsulation Attribute" RFC 9012 DOI 10.17487/RFC9012
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9012>

, and
,

,
,

.

J. Scudder "The BGP Tunnel

,

, April 2021,

<https://

,

, and

Sheffer, Y. Saint-Andre, P.
,
Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)"
BCP 195 RFC 9325 DOI 10.17487/RFC9325
editor.org/info/rfc9325>

T. Fossati "Recommendations for Secure Use of

, November 2022,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

,

,

Koldychev, M. Sivabalan, S. Sidor, S. Barth, C. Peng, S.
,
Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for Segment
Routing (SR) Policy Candidate Paths" RFC 9862 DOI 10.17487/RFC9862
, October
2025,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9862>
.

H. Bidgoli "Path

, and

,

,

,

,

7.2.  Informative References

[RFC3063]

[RFC3209]

,

Ohba, Y. Katsube, Y. Rosen, E.
,
Mechanism" RFC 3063 DOI 10.17487/RFC3063
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc3063>

, and

.

,

P. Doolan "MPLS Loop Prevention

, February 2001,

<https://www.rfc-

,

G. Swallow "RSVP-TE:
Awduche, D. Berger, L. Gan, D. Li, T. Srinivasan, V.
,
Extensions to RSVP for LSP Tunnels" RFC 3209 DOI 10.17487/RFC3209
December 2001,

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3209>

, and

,

,

.

,

,

Rajagopalan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9863

PCEP Color

October 2025

[RFC3630]

[RFC5305]

[RFC5329]

[RFC5886]

[RFC6123]

[RFC7308]

[RFC9256]

,

D. Yeung "Traffic Engineering (TE) Extensions to
Katz, D. Kompella, K.
, and
OSPF Version 2" RFC 3630 DOI 10.17487/RFC3630
<https://
,
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3630>

, September 2003,

,

.

 and

Li, T.
,
10.17487/RFC5305

H. Smit "IS-IS Extensions for Traffic Engineering" RFC 5305 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5305>

, October 2008,

,

,

.

,

Ishiguro, K. Manral, V. Davey, A.
Extensions to OSPF Version 3" RFC 5329 DOI 10.17487/RFC5329
2008,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5329>

, and

,

.

,

,

A. Lindem, Ed. "Traffic Engineering

,

, September

,

Vasseur, JP., Ed. Le Roux, JL.
Computation Element (PCE)-Based Architecture" RFC 5886 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5886

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5886>

Y. Ikejiri "A Set of Monitoring Tools for Path

, June 2010,

, and

,

,

,

.

,

Farrel, A. "Inclusion of Manageability Sections in Path Computation Element
(PCE) Working Group Drafts" RFC 6123 DOI 10.17487/RFC6123
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6123>

, February 2011,

,

.

Osborne, E. "Extended Administrative Groups in MPLS Traffic Engineering
,
(MPLS-TE)" RFC 7308 DOI 10.17487/RFC7308
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc7308>

<https://www.rfc-

, July 2014,

.

,

Filsfils, C. Talaulikar, K., Ed. Voyer, D. Bogdanov, A.
Routing Policy Architecture" RFC 9256 DOI 10.17487/RFC9256
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9256>

, and

,
,

,
,

.

P. Mattes "Segment
,
, July 2022,

[SR-POLICY-YANG]

Saleh, T. Raza, S. K. Zhuang, S. Matsushima, S.

,

,

,

, and

Data Model for Segment Routing Policy" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-
,
ietf-spring-sr-policy-yang-06
html/draft-ietf-spring-sr-policy-yang-06>

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/

, 20 October 2025,

.

V. P. Beeram "YANG
,

,

[YANG-TE]

,

Saad, T. Gandhi, R. Liu, X. Beeram, V. P.
,
Traffic Engineering Tunnels, Label Switched Paths, and Interfaces" Work in
,
Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-teas-yang-te-39
<https://
, 17 October 2025,
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-teas-yang-te-39>

I. Bryskin "A YANG Data Model for

, and

,

,

.

,

Acknowledgments

The authors would like to thank
Tarek Saad Dhruv Dhody Adrian Farrel Andrew Stone Diego Achaval
Kommuri

,
 for their review and suggestions.

,

,

,

,

,

Kaliraj Vairavakkalai Colby Barth Natrajan Venkataraman

,

, and

Narasimha

Contributors

The following people have contributed to this document:

Rajagopalan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9863

PCEP Color

October 2025

Quan Xiong
ZTE Corporation
Email:

xiong.quan@zte.com.cn

Authors' Addresses

Balaji Rajagopalan
Juniper Networks
Email:

balajir@juniper.net

Vishnu Pavan Beeram
Juniper Networks
Email:

vbeeram@juniper.net

Shaofu Peng
ZTE Corporation
Email:

peng.shaofu@zte.com.cn

Mike Koldychev
Ciena Corporation
Email:

mkoldych@proton.me

Gyan Mishra
Verizon Communications Inc.
Email:

gyan.s.mishra@verizon.com

Rajagopalan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

