Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9258
Standards Track
July 2022
2070-1721
D. Benjamin
Google, LLC.

C. A. Wood
Cloudﬂare

RFC 9258
Importing External Pre-Shared Keys (PSKs) for TLS
1.3

Abstract

This document describes an interface for importing external Pre-Shared Keys (PSKs) into TLS 1.3.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9258
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

Benjamin & Wood

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9258

Importing External PSKs for TLS 1.3

July 2022

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Conventions and Deﬁnitions

3.  Terminology

4.  Overview

5.  PSK Importer

5.1.  External PSK Diversiﬁcation

5.2.  Binder Key Derivation

6.  Deprecating Hash Functions

7.  Incremental Deployment

8.  Security Considerations

9.  Privacy Considerations

10. IANA Considerations

11. References

11.1.  Normative References

11.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Addressing Selﬁe

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

[RFC8446]

 supports Pre-Shared Key (PSK) authentication, wherein PSKs can be established

TLS 1.3
via session tickets from prior connections or via some external, out-of-band mechanism. The
protocol mandates that each PSK only be used with a single hash function. This was done to
simplify protocol analysis. TLS 1.2
, in contrast, has no such requirement, as a PSK may
be used with any hash algorithm and the TLS 1.2 pseudorandom function (PRF). While there is no
known way in which the same external PSK might produce related output in TLS 1.3 and prior
versions, only limited analysis has been done. Applications
 provision separate PSKs for
(D)TLS 1.3 and prior versions. In cases where this is not possible (e.g., there are already-deployed

[RFC5246]

SHOULD

Benjamin & Wood

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9258

Importing External PSKs for TLS 1.3

July 2022

external PSKs or provisioning is otherwise limited), reusing external PSKs across diﬀerent
versions of TLS may produce related outputs, which may, in turn, lead to security problems; see
Appendix E.7 of [RFC8446]

.

To mitigate such problems, this document speciﬁes a PSK importer interface by which external
PSKs may be imported and subsequently bound to a speciﬁc key derivation function (KDF) and
hash function for use in TLS 1.3
 and DTLS 1.3
mechanism for importing PSKs derived from external PSKs by including the target KDF, (D)TLS
protocol version, and an optional context string to ensure uniqueness. This process yields a set of
candidate PSKs, each of which are bound to a target KDF and protocol, that are separate from
those used in (D)TLS 1.2 and prior versions. This expands what would normally have been a single
PSK and identity into a set of PSKs and identities.

. In particular, it describes a

[RFC9147]

[RFC8446]

2.  Conventions and Deﬁnitions

", "
The key words "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
"
", "
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

3.  Terminology

The following terms are used throughout this document:

External PSK (EPSK):

A PSK established or provisioned out of band (i.e., not from a TLS

connection) that is a tuple of (Base Key, External Identity, Hash).

Base Key:

The secret value of an EPSK.

External Identity:

A sequence of bytes used to identify an EPSK.

Target protocol:

The protocol for which a PSK is imported for use.

Target KDF:

The KDF for which a PSK is imported for use.

Imported PSK (IPSK):
and target KDF.

A TLS PSK derived from an EPSK, optional context string, target protocol,

Non-imported PSK:

An EPSK that is used directly as a TLS PSK without being imported.

Imported Identity:

A sequence of bytes used to identify an IPSK.

This document uses presentation language from

Section 3 of [RFC8446]

.

Benjamin & Wood

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9258

Importing External PSKs for TLS 1.3

July 2022

4.  Overview

) in that it
The PSK importer interface mirrors that of the TLS exporter interface (see
diversiﬁes a key based on some contextual information. In contrast to the exporter interface,
wherein output uniqueness is achieved via an explicit label and context string, the PSK importer
interface deﬁned herein takes an external PSK and identity and "imports" it into TLS, creating a
set of "derived" PSKs and identities that are each unique. Each of these derived PSKs are bound to
a target protocol, KDF identiﬁer, and optional context string. Additionally, the resulting PSK
binder keys are modiﬁed with a new derivation label to prevent confusion with non-imported
PSKs. Through this interface, importing external PSKs with diﬀerent identities yields distinct PSK
binder keys.

[RFC8446]

Imported keys do not require negotiation for use since a client and server will not agree upon
identities if imported incorrectly. Endpoints may incrementally deploy PSK importer support by
oﬀering non-imported PSKs for TLS versions prior to TLS 1.3. Non-imported and imported PSKs
are not equivalent since their identities are diﬀerent. See Section 7 for more details.

Endpoints that import external keys
for any purpose other than the importer, and they
other than TLS PSKs. Moreover, each external PSK fed to the importer process
with one hash function at most. This is analogous to the rules in
Section 8 for more discussion.

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

 use the derived keys for any purpose
 be associated

MUST

Section 4.2.11 of [RFC8446]

. See

 use the keys that are input to the import process

5.  PSK Importer

This section describes the PSK importer interface and its underlying diversiﬁcation mechanism
and binder key computation modiﬁcation.

5.1.  External PSK Diversiﬁcation

As input, the PSK importer interface takes an EPSK with External Identity external_identity
and base key epsk (as deﬁned in Section 3) along with an optional context. It then transforms the
input into a set of PSKs and imported identities for use in a connection based on target protocols
and KDFs. In particular, for each supported target protocol target_protocol and KDF
target_kdf, the importer constructs an ImportedIdentity structure as follows:

struct {
   opaque external_identity<1...2^16-1>;
   opaque context<0..2^16-1>;
   uint16 target_protocol;
   uint16 target_kdf;
} ImportedIdentity;

Benjamin & Wood

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9258

Importing External PSKs for TLS 1.3

July 2022

The list of ImportedIdentity.target_kdf values is maintained by IANA as described in Section 10.
External PSKs
on how imported PSKs for TLS 1.3 and non-imported PSKs for earlier versions coexist for
incremental deployment.

 be imported for (D)TLS 1.2 or prior versions. See Section 7 for discussion

MUST NOT

MUST

 include the context used to determine the EPSK, if any exists. For

ImportedIdentity.context
example, ImportedIdentity.context may include information about peer roles or identities to
mitigate Selﬁe-style reﬂection attacks
key derived from an external protocol or sequence of protocols, ImportedIdentity.context
include a channel binding for the deriving protocols
protocol speciﬁc and out of scope for this document.

. See Appendix A for more details. Since the EPSK is a

. The details of this binding are

[RFC5056]

[Selﬁe]

MUST

. Note that this means the number of PSKs derived from an EPSK is a function of the

 be the (D)TLS protocol version for which the PSK is being

 uses 0x0304, which will therefore also be used by QUICv1

ImportedIdentity.target_protocol
imported. For example, TLS 1.3
[QUIC]
number of target protocols.

MUST
[RFC8446]

Given an ImportedIdentity and corresponding EPSK with base key epsk, an imported PSK IPSK
with base key ipskx is computed as follows:

   epskx = HKDF-Extract(0, epsk)
   ipskx = HKDF-Expand-Label(epskx, "derived psk",
                             Hash(ImportedIdentity), L)

L corresponds to the KDF output length of ImportedIdentity.target_kdf as deﬁned in Section 10.
For hash-based KDFs, such as HKDF_SHA256 (0x0001), this is the length of the hash function
output, e.g., 32 octets for SHA256. This is required for the IPSK to be of length suitable for supported
ciphersuites. Internally, HKDF-Expand-Label uses a label corresponding to
ImportedIdentity.target_protocol (e.g., "tls13" for TLS 1.3, as per
for DTLS 1.3, as per
Section 5.10 of [RFC9147]

Section 7.1 of [RFC8446]

 or "dtls13"

).

The identity of ipskx as sent on the wire is ImportedIdentity, i.e., the serialized content of
ImportedIdentity is used as the content of PskIdentity.identity in the PSK extension. The
corresponding PSK input for the TLS 1.3 key schedule is "ipskx".

As the maximum size of the PSK extension is 216 - 1 octets, an Imported Identity that exceeds this
size is likely to cause a decoding error. Therefore, the PSK importer interface
ImportedIdentity that exceeds this size.

 reject any

SHOULD

The hash function used for HMAC-based Key Derivation Function (HKDF)
is associated with the EPSK. It is not the hash function associated with
ImportedIdentity.target_kdf. If the EPSK does not have such an associated hash function, SHA-256
 be used. Diversifying EPSK by ImportedIdentity.target_kdf ensures that an IPSK is
[SHA2] SHOULD
only used as input keying material to one KDF at most, thus satisfying the requirements in
[RFC8446]

. See Section 8 for more details.

 is that which

[RFC5869]

Benjamin & Wood

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9258

Importing External PSKs for TLS 1.3

July 2022

SHOULD

 generate a compatible ipskx for each target ciphersuite they oﬀer. For

Endpoints
example, importing a key for TLS_AES_128_GCM_SHA256 and TLS_AES_256_GCM_SHA384 would
yield two PSKs: one for HKDF-SHA256 and another for HKDF-SHA384. In contrast, if
TLS_AES_128_GCM_SHA256 and TLS_CHACHA20_POLY1305_SHA256 are supported, only one
derived key is necessary. Each ciphersuite uniquely identiﬁes the target KDF. Future speciﬁcations
that change the way the KDF is negotiated will need to update this speciﬁcation to make clear
how target KDFs are determined for the import process.

MAY

 be imported before the start of a connection if the target KDFs, protocols, and context

EPSKs
string(s) are known a priori. EPSKs
 also be imported for early data use if they are bound to
the protocol settings and conﬁguration that are required for sending early data. Minimally, this
, QUIC transport
means that the Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation (ALPN) value
parameters (if used for QUIC), and any other relevant parameters that are negotiated for early
data

 be provisioned alongside these EPSKs.

[RFC7301]

MUST

MAY

5.2.  Binder Key Derivation

To prevent confusion between imported and non-imported PSKs, imported PSKs change the PSK
binder key derivation label. In particular, the standard TLS 1.3 PSK binder key computation is
deﬁned as follows:

           0
           |
           v
 PSK ->  HKDF-Extract = Early Secret
           |
           +-----> Derive-Secret(., "ext binder" | "res binder", "")
           |                     = binder_key
           V

Imported PSKs use the string "imp binder" rather than "ext binder" or "res binder" when deriving
binder_key. This means the binder key is computed as follows:

           0
           |
           v
 PSK ->  HKDF-Extract = Early Secret
           |
           +-----> Derive-Secret(., "ext binder"
           |                      | "res binder"
           |                      | "imp binder", "")
           |                     = binder_key
           V

This new label ensures a client and server will negotiate use of an external PSK if and only if (a)
both endpoints import the PSK or (b) neither endpoint imports the PSK. As binder_key is a leaf
key, changing its computation does not aﬀect any other key.

Benjamin & Wood

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9258

Importing External PSKs for TLS 1.3

July 2022

6.  Deprecating Hash Functions

If a client or server wishes to deprecate a hash function and no longer use it for TLS 1.3, it
removes the corresponding KDF from the set of target KDFs used for importing keys. This does
not aﬀect the KDF operation used to derive imported PSKs.

7.  Incremental Deployment

In deployments that already have PSKs provisioned and in use with TLS 1.2, attempting to
incrementally deploy the importer mechanism would result in concurrent use of the already-
provisioned PSK directly as both a TLS 1.2 PSK and an EPSK, which, in turn, could mean that the
same KDF and key would be used in two diﬀerent protocol contexts. This is not a recommended
conﬁguration; see Section 8 for more details. However, the beneﬁts of using TLS 1.3 and PSK
importers may prove suﬃciently compelling that existing deployments choose to enable this
noncompliant conﬁguration for a brief transition period while new software (using TLS 1.3 and
importers) is deployed. Operators are advised to make any such transition period as short as
possible.

8.  Security Considerations

The PSK importer security goals can be roughly stated as follows: avoid PSK reuse across KDFs
while properly authenticating endpoints. When modeled as computational extractors, KDFs
assume that input keying material (IKM) is sampled from some "source" probability distribution
and that any two IKM values are chosen independently of each other
. This source-
independence requirement implies that the same IKM value cannot be used for two diﬀerent
KDFs.

[Kraw10]

PSK-based authentication is functionally equivalent to session resumption in that a connection
uses existing key material to authenticate both endpoints. Following the work of
form of compound authentication. Loosely speaking, compound authentication is the property
that an execution of multiple authentication protocols, wherein at least one is uncompromised,
jointly authenticates all protocols. Therefore, authenticating with an externally provisioned PSK
should ideally authenticate both the TLS connection and the external provisioning process.
Typically, the external provisioning process produces a PSK and corresponding context from
which the PSK was derived and in which it should be used. If available, this is used as the
ImportedIdentity.context value. We refer to an external PSK without such context as "context-
free".

[BAA15]

, this is a

Thus, in considering the source-independence and compound authentication requirements, the
PSK importer interface described in this document aims to achieve the following goals:

1.

Externally provisioned PSKs imported into a TLS connection achieve compound
authentication of the provisioning process and connection.

2.

Context-free PSKs only achieve authentication within the context of a single connection.

Benjamin & Wood

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9258

Importing External PSKs for TLS 1.3

July 2022

3.

Imported PSKs are not used as IKM for two diﬀerent KDFs.

4.

Imported PSKs do not collide with future protocol versions and KDFs.

There are no known related outputs or security issues caused from the process for computing
imported PSKs from an external PSK and the processing of existing external PSKs used in (D)TLS
1.2 and below, as noted in Section 7. However, only limited analysis has been done, which is an
additional reason why applications
versions, even when the importer interface is used in (D)TLS 1.3.

 provision separate PSKs for (D)TLS 1.3 and prior

SHOULD

The PSK importer does not prevent applications from constructing non-importer PSK identities
that collide with imported PSK identities.

9.  Privacy Considerations

External PSK identities are commonly static by design so that endpoints may use them to look up
keying material. As a result, for some systems and use cases, this identity may become a
persistent tracking identiﬁer.

Note also that ImportedIdentity.context is visible in cleartext on the wire as part of the PSK
identity. Unless otherwise protected by a mechanism such as TLS Encrypted ClientHello
 put sensitive information in this ﬁeld.
applications

SHOULD NOT

[ECH]

,

10.  IANA Considerations

IANA has created the "TLS KDF Identiﬁers" registry under the existing "Transport Layer Security
(TLS) Parameters" registry.

The entries in the registry are as follows:

Value

KDF Description

Reference

0x0000

Reserved

RFC 9258

0x0001 HKDF_SHA256

[RFC5869]

0x0002 HKDF_SHA384

[RFC5869]

Table 1: TLS KDF Identiﬁers Registry

New target KDF values are allocated according to the following process:

•

Values in the range 0x0000-0xfeﬀ are assigned via Speciﬁcation Required

[RFC8126]

.

•

Values in the range 0xﬀ00-0xﬀﬀ are reserved for Private Use

[RFC8126]

.

The procedures for requesting values in the Speciﬁcation Required space are speciﬁed in
17 of [RFC8447]

.

Section

Benjamin & Wood

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9258

Importing External PSKs for TLS 1.3

July 2022

11.  References

11.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC5056]

[RFC5869]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8446]

[RFC8447]

[RFC9147]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
,
rfc2119>
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

Williams, N. "On the Use of Channel Bindings to Secure Channels" RFC 5056 DOI
10.17487/RFC5056

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5056>

, November 2007,

,

,

Krawczyk, H.
Function (HKDF)" RFC 5869 DOI 10.17487/RFC5869
.
editor.org/info/rfc5869>

 and
P. Eronen "HMAC-based Extract-and-Expand Key Derivation
,
<https://www.rfc-

, May 2010,

,
,

,
Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

, June

,
,
Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
.
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,
,
Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>

, August 2018,

,

Salowey, J.
DOI 10.17487/RFC8447

,
S. Turner "IANA Registry Updates for TLS and DTLS" RFC 8447
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8447>

, August 2018,

 and

,

,

,

Rescorla, E. Tschofenig, H.
Security (DTLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 9147 DOI 10.17487/RFC9147
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9147>

N. Modadugu "The Datagram Transport Layer

, and

, April 2022,

,

,

,

11.2.  Informative References

[BAA15]

[ECH]

[Kraw10]

,

Bhargavan, K. Delignat-Lavaud, A.
Bindings for Compound Authentication" Proceedings 2015 Network and
Distributed System Security DOI 10.14722/ndss.2015.23277
,
<https://doi.org/10.14722/ndss.2015.23277>
.

A. Pironti "Veriﬁed Contributive Channel
,

, February 2015,

, and

,

,

Rescorla, E. Oku, K. Sullivan, N.
Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-tls-esni-14
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-tls-esni-14>
.

, and

,

,

,

C. A. Wood "TLS Encrypted Client Hello"
,

, 13 February 2022,

<https://

Krawczyk, H. "Cryptographic Extraction and Key Derivation: The HKDF
Scheme" Proceedings of Crypto 2010

.
<https://eprint.iacr.org/2010/264>

, May 2010,

,

,

Benjamin & Wood

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9258

Importing External PSKs for TLS 1.3

July 2022

[QUIC]

[RFC5246]

[RFC7301]

[Selﬁe]

[SHA2]

 and

Iyengar, J., Ed.
Transport" RFC 9000 DOI 10.17487/RFC9000
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc9000>
.

M. Thomson, Ed. "QUIC: A UDP-Based Multiplexed and Secure
, May 2021,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Dierks, T.
E. Rescorla "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version
 and
1.2" RFC 5246 DOI 10.17487/RFC5246
,
,
.
info/rfc5246>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, August 2008,

,

,

Friedl, S. Popov, A. Langley, A.
Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation Extension" RFC 7301 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7301

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7301>

E. Stephan "Transport Layer Security (TLS)

, July 2014,

, and

,

,

,

Drucker, N.
s00145-021-09387-y

,
S. Gueron "Selﬁe: reﬂections on TLS 1.3 with PSK" DOI 10.1007/
.
<https://eprint.iacr.org/2019/347.pdf>

, May 2021,

 and

,

,
National Institute of Standards and Technology "Secure Hash Standard (SHS)"
,
<https://doi.org/10.6028/
FIPS PUB 180-4 DOI 10.6028/NIST.FIPS.180-4
.
NIST.FIPS.180-4>

, August 2015,

,

Appendix A.  Addressing Selﬁe

[Selﬁe]

 relies on a misuse of the PSK interface. The PSK interface makes the

The Selﬁe attack
implicit assumption that each PSK is known only to one client and one server. If multiple clients
or multiple servers with distinct roles share a PSK, TLS only authenticates the entire group. A node
successfully authenticates its peer as being in the group whether the peer is another node or itself.
Note that this case can also occur when there are two nodes sharing a PSK without predetermined
roles.

Applications that require authenticating ﬁner-grained roles while still conﬁguring a single shared
PSK across all nodes can resolve this mismatch either by exchanging roles over the TLS
connection after the handshake or by incorporating the roles of both the client and the server
into the IPSK context string. For instance, if an application identiﬁes each node by the Media
Access Control (MAC) address, it could use the following context string.

  struct {
    opaque client_mac<0..2^8-1>;
    opaque server_mac<0..2^8-1>;
  } Context;

If an attacker then redirects a ClientHello intended for one node to a diﬀerent node, including the
node that generated the ClientHello, the receiver will compute a diﬀerent context string and the
handshake will not complete.

Note that, in this scenario, there is still a single shared PSK across all nodes, so each node must be
trusted not to impersonate another node's role.

Benjamin & Wood

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9258

Importing External PSKs for TLS 1.3

July 2022

Acknowledgements

 and

Eric Rescorla

Martin Thomson

The authors thank
of this document, as well as
external PSKs.
considerations.
Thomson Jonathan Hoyland Scott Hollenbeck Benjamin Kaduk
reviews, feedback, and suggestions for improving the document.

John Preuß Mattsson

Christian Huitema

Hugo Krawczyk

,

,

,

 provided input regarding PSK importer deployment

 provided guidance for the security considerations.

Martin
, and others all provided

 for input regarding privacy considerations of

 for discussions that led to the production

Authors' Addresses

David Benjamin
Google, LLC.
Email:

 davidben@google.com

Christopher A. Wood
Cloudﬂare
Email:

 caw@heapingbits.net

Benjamin & Wood

Standards Track

Page 11

