Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9323
Standards Track
November 2022
2070-1721
J. Snijders
Fastly

T. Harrison
APNIC

B. Maddison
Workonline

RFC 9323
A Profile for RPKI Signed Checklists (RSCs)

Abstract

This document defines a Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS) protected content type for use
with the Resource Public Key Infrastructure (RPKI) to carry a general-purpose listing of
checksums (a 'checklist'). The objective is to allow for the creation of an attestation, termed an
"RPKI Signed Checklist (RSC)", which contains one or more checksums of arbitrary digital objects
(files) that are signed with a specific set of Internet Number Resources. When validated, an RSC
confirms that the respective Internet resource holder produced the RSC.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9323
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in effect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Snijders, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9323

RPKI Signed Checklists (RSCs)

November 2022

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

2.  RSC Profile and Distribution

2.1.  RSC EE Certificates

3.  The RSC eContentType

4.  The RSC eContent

4.1.  Version

4.2.  Resources

4.2.1.  ConstrainedASIdentifiers Type

4.2.2.  ConstrainedIPAddrBlocks Type

4.3.  digestAlgorithm

4.4.  checkList

4.4.1.  FileNameAndHash

5.  RSC Validation

6.  Verifying Files or Data Using RSC

7.  Operational Considerations

8.  Security Considerations

9.  IANA Considerations

9.1.  SMI Security for S/MIME CMS Content Type (1.2.840.113549.1.9.16.1)

9.2.  RPKI Signed Objects

9.3.  RPKI Repository Name Schemes

9.4.  SMI Security for S/MIME Module Identifier (1.2.840.113549.1.9.16.0)

9.5.  Media Types

10. References

10.1.  Normative References

10.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Snijders, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9323

RPKI Signed Checklists (RSCs)

November 2022

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

This document defines a Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS)
content type for a general-purpose listing of checksums (a 'checklist'), for use with the Resource
Public Key Infrastructure (RPKI)
provide for the creation and validation of an RPKI Signed Checklist (RSC), a checksum listing
signed with a specific set of Internet Number Resources. The objective is to allow for the creation
of an attestation that, when validated, provides a means to confirm a given Internet resource
holder produced the RSC.

. The CMS protected content type is intended to

[RFC5652] [RFC6268]

[RFC6480]

 protected

RPKI Signed Checklists are expected to facilitate inter-domain business use cases that depend on
an ability to verify resource holdership. RPKI-based validation processes are expected to become
the industry norm for automated Bring Your Own IP (BYOIP) on-boarding or establishment of
physical interconnections between Autonomous Systems (ASes).

, and OpenBSD's signify utility

, Manifests
The RSC concept borrows heavily from Resource Tagged Attestation (RTA)
[RFC9286]
. The main difference between an RSC and RTA
is that the RTA profile allows multiple signers to attest a single digital object through a checksum
of its content, while the RSC profile allows a single signer to attest the content of multiple digital
objects. A single signer profile is considered a simplification for both implementers and
operators.

[RPKI-RTA]

[signify]

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  RSC Profile and Distribution

RSC follows the Signed Object Template for the RPKI
MUST NOT
Access (SIA) extension

MUST

 be distributed through the global RPKI repository system, the Subject Information

 be omitted from the RSC's X.509 End-Entity (EE) certificate.

[RFC6488]

 with one exception: because RSCs

What constitutes suitable transport for RSC files is deliberately unspecified. For example, it might
be a USB stick, a web interface secured with HTTPS, an email signed with Pretty Good Privacy
(PGP), a T-shirt printed with a QR code, or a carrier pigeon.

Snijders, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9323

RPKI Signed Checklists (RSCs)

November 2022

2.1.  RSC EE Certificates

The Certification Authority (CA)
generate a new key pair for each new RSC. This type of EE certificate is termed a "one-time-use"
EE certificate (see

 only sign one RSC with each EE certificate and

Section 3 of [RFC6487]

MUST

MUST

).

3.  The RSC eContentType

The eContentType for an RSC is defined as id-ct-signedChecklist, with Object Identifier (OID)
1.2.840.113549.1.9.16.1.48.

This OID
ContentType signed attribute in the signerInfo object (see

MUST

 appear within both the eContentType in the encapContentInfo object and the

[RFC6488]

).

4.  The RSC eContent

The content of an RSC indicates that a checklist for arbitrary digital objects has been signed with
a specific set of Internet Number Resources. An RSC is formally defined as follows:

RpkiSignedChecklist-2022
  { iso(1) member-body(2) us(840) rsadsi(113549)
    pkcs(1) pkcs9(9) smime(16) mod(0)
    id-mod-rpkiSignedChecklist-2022(73) }

DEFINITIONS EXPLICIT TAGS ::=
BEGIN

IMPORTS
  CONTENT-TYPE, Digest, DigestAlgorithmIdentifier
  FROM CryptographicMessageSyntax-2010 -- in [RFC6268]
    { iso(1) member-body(2) us(840) rsadsi(113549) pkcs(1)
      pkcs-9(9) smime(16) modules(0) id-mod-cms-2009(58) }

  IPAddressOrRange, ASIdOrRange
  FROM IPAddrAndASCertExtn -- in [RFC3779]
    { iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1)
      security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) mod(0)
      id-mod-ip-addr-and-as-ident(30) } ;

ct-rpkiSignedChecklist CONTENT-TYPE ::=
  { TYPE RpkiSignedChecklist
    IDENTIFIED BY id-ct-signedChecklist }

id-ct-signedChecklist OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::=
  { iso(1) member-body(2) us(840) rsadsi(113549) pkcs(1)
    pkcs-9(9) id-smime(16) id-ct(1) 48 }

RpkiSignedChecklist ::= SEQUENCE {
  version [0]           INTEGER DEFAULT 0,
  resources             ResourceBlock,
  digestAlgorithm       DigestAlgorithmIdentifier,

Snijders, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9323

RPKI Signed Checklists (RSCs)

November 2022

  checkList             SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..MAX)) OF FileNameAndHash }

FileNameAndHash ::= SEQUENCE {
  fileName              PortableFilename OPTIONAL,
  hash                  Digest }

PortableFilename ::=
  IA5String (FROM("a".."z" | "A".."Z" | "0".."9" | "." | "_" | "-"))

ResourceBlock ::= SEQUENCE {
  asID         [0]      ConstrainedASIdentifiers OPTIONAL,
  ipAddrBlocks [1]      ConstrainedIPAddrBlocks OPTIONAL }
  -- at least one of asID or ipAddrBlocks MUST be present
  ( WITH COMPONENTS { ..., asID PRESENT} |
    WITH COMPONENTS { ..., ipAddrBlocks PRESENT } )

ConstrainedIPAddrBlocks ::=
  SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..MAX)) OF ConstrainedIPAddressFamily

ConstrainedIPAddressFamily ::= SEQUENCE {
  addressFamily         OCTET STRING (SIZE(2)),
  addressesOrRanges     SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..MAX)) OF IPAddressOrRange }

ConstrainedASIdentifiers ::= SEQUENCE {
  asnum [0]             SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..MAX)) OF ASIdOrRange }

END

4.1.  Version

The version number of the RpkiSignedChecklist

MUST

 be 0.

4.2.  Resources

The resources contained here are the resources used to mark the attestation and
 be a
subset of the set of resources listed by the EE certificate carried in the CMS certificates field.

MUST

If the asID field is present, it

MUST

 contain an instance of ConstrainedASIdentifiers.

If the ipAddrBlocks field is present, it

MUST

 contain an instance of ConstrainedIPAddrBlocks.

At least one of asID or ipAddrBlocks

MUST

 be present.

ConstrainedASIdentifiers and ConstrainedIPAddrBlocks are specified such that the resulting DER-
encoded data instances are binary compatible with ASIdentifiers and IPAddrBlocks (defined in
[RFC3779]

), respectively.

Implementations encountering decoding errors whilst attempting to read DER-encoded data
using this specification should be aware of the possibility that the data may have been encoded
using an implementation intended for use with
prohibited by the current specification.

. Such data may contain elements

[RFC3779]

Snijders, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9323

RPKI Signed Checklists (RSCs)

November 2022

Attempting to decode the errored data using the more permissive specification contained in
[RFC3779]
to the user.

 may enable implementors to gather additional context for use when reporting errors

However, implementations
definitions contained herein; in particular, such errors
described in Section 5 to fail.

MUST NOT

 ignore errors resulting from the more restrictive

MUST

 cause the validation procedure

4.2.1.  ConstrainedASIdentifiers Type

ConstrainedASIdentifiers is a SEQUENCE consisting of a single field, asnum, which in turn
contains a SEQUENCE OF one or more ASIdOrRange instances as defined in

[RFC3779]
.

ConstrainedASIdentifiers is defined such that the resulting DER-encoded data are binary
compatible with ASIdentifiers defined in

[RFC3779]
.

4.2.2.  ConstrainedIPAddrBlocks Type

ConstrainedIPAddrBlocks is a SEQUENCE OF one or more instances of
ConstrainedIPAddressFamily.

MUST

There
Identifier (AFI).

 be only one instance of ConstrainedIPAddressFamily per unique Address Family

The elements of ConstrainedIPAddressFamily
values (treating the octets as unsigned numbers). Thus, when both IPv4 and IPv6 addresses are
specified, the IPv4 addresses
 precede the IPv6 addresses (since the IPv4 AFI of 0001 is less
than the IPv6 AFI of 0002).

 be ordered by ascending addressFamily

MUST

MUST

ConstrainedIPAddrBlocks is defined such that the resulting DER-encoded data are binary
compatible with IPAddrBlocks defined in

[RFC3779]
.

4.2.2.1.  ConstrainedIPAddressFamily Type

4.2.2.1.1.  addressFamily Field

The addressFamily field is an OCTET STRING containing a 2-octet AFI, in network byte order.
Unlike IPAddrBlocks
(SAFI)
[IANA.ADDRESS-FAMILY-NUMBERS]

 be present. AFIs are specified in the "Address Family Numbers" registry

, a third octet containing a Subsequent Address Family Identifier

 maintained by IANA.

[RFC3779]

MUST NOT

4.2.2.1.2.  addressesOrRanges Field

The addressesOrRanges element is a SEQUENCE OF one or more IPAddressOrRange values, as
defined in
Section 2.2.3.6 of
[RFC3779]

[RFC3779]
 apply to the value of addressesOrRanges.

. The rules for canonicalization and encoding defined in

4.3.  digestAlgorithm

The digest algorithm is used to create the message digest of the attested digital object(s). This
algorithm

 be a hashing algorithm defined in

[RFC7935]
.

MUST

Snijders, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9323

RPKI Signed Checklists (RSCs)

November 2022

4.4.  checkList

This field is a SEQUENCE OF one or more FileNameAndHash values. There is one
FileNameAndHash entry for each digital object referenced on the RSC.

4.4.1.  FileNameAndHash

Each FileNameAndHash is an ordered pair of the name of the directory entry containing the
digital object and the message digest of the digital object.

The hash field is mandatory. The value of the hash field is the calculated message digest of the
digital object. The hashing algorithm is specified in the digestAlgorithm field.

The fileName field is
which nameless digital objects are addressed directly through their respective message digest
rather than through a file system abstraction.

. This is to allow RSCs to be used in a "stand-alone" fashion in

OPTIONAL

If the fileName field is present, then its value:

• MUST

 contain only characters specified in the Portable Filename Character Set as defined in

[POSIX]

.

• MUST

 be unique with respect to the other FileNameAndHash elements of checkList for which

the fileName field is also present.

Conversely, if the fileName field is omitted, then the value of the hash field
 be unique with
respect to the other FileNameAndHash elements of checkList for which the fileName field is also
omitted.

MUST

5.  RSC Validation

Before a Relying Party (RP) can use an RSC to validate a set of digital objects, the RP
validate the RSC. To validate an RSC, the RP
[RFC6488]
in the EE certificate (see Section 2). In addition, the RP
validation steps:

, except for checking for the presence of an SIA extension, which

 perform all the validation checks specified in
 be present

 perform the following RSC-specific

MUST NOT

MUST

MUST

MUST

 first

1.

The contents of the CMS eContent field
Section 4, including the constraints described in Section 4.4.1.

MUST

 conform to all of the constraints described in

2.

If the asID field is present within the contents of the resources field, then the AS identifier
delegation extension
 be present in the EE certificate contained in the CMS
certificates field. The AS identifiers present in the eContent resources field
of those present in the certificate extension. The EE certificate's AS identifier delegation
extension

 contain "inherit" elements.

[RFC3779] MUST

MUST NOT

MUST

 be a subset

3.

If the ipAddrBlocks field is present within the contents of the resources field, then the IP
address delegation extension
the CMS certificates field. The IP addresses present in the eContent resources field

 be present in the EE certificate contained in

[RFC3779] MUST

MUST

 be a

Snijders, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9323

RPKI Signed Checklists (RSCs)

November 2022

subset of those present in the certificate extension. The EE certificate's IP address delegation
extension

 contain "inherit" elements.

MUST NOT

6.  Verifying Files or Data Using RSC

To verify a set of digital objects with an RSC:

•

The RSC
cannot be validated, verification

 be validated according to the procedure described in Section 5. If the RSC
 be reported to the user.

 fail. This error

SHOULD

MUST

MUST

•

For every digital object to be verified:
1. If the verification procedure is provided with a filename for the object being verified (e.g.,

because the user has provided a file system path from which to read the object), then
verification
proceed in "filename-unaware" mode.

 proceed in "filename-aware" mode. Otherwise, verification

SHOULD

SHOULD

Implementations
ignore the fact that the object is to be read from a file.

MAY

 provide an option to override the verification mode, for example, to

2. The message digest

MUST

 be computed from the file contents or data using the digest

algorithm specified in the digestAlgorithm field of the RSC.

3. The digest computed in Step 2

MUST
of all FileNameAndHash elements of the checkList field of the RSC.

 be compared to the value appearing in the hash field

One or more FileNameAndHash elements
otherwise, verification

MUST
 fail, and the error

MUST

 be found with a matching hash value;
 be reported to the user.
SHOULD

4.

If the mode selected in Step 1 is "filename-aware", then exactly one of the
FileNameAndHash elements matched in Step 3
matching the filename of the object being verified.

MUST

 contain a fileName field value exactly

Alternatively, if the mode selected in Step 1 is "filename-unaware", then exactly one of the
FileNameAndHash elements matched in Step 3

 have the fileName field omitted.

MUST

Otherwise, verification

MUST

 fail, and the error

SHOULD

 be reported to the user.

Note that in the above procedure, not all elements of checkList necessarily need be used. That is,
it is not an error if the length of checkList is greater than the size of the set of digital objects to be
verified. However, in this situation, implementations
allowing for corrective action to be taken if necessary.

 issue a warning to the user,

SHOULD

7.  Operational Considerations

When creating digital objects of a plain-text nature (such as ASCII, UTF-8, HTML, Javascript, and
XML), converting such objects into a lossless compressed form is
plain-text objects within a compression envelope (such as GZIP

) might help avoid

RECOMMENDED

. Distributing

[RFC1952]

Snijders, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9323

RPKI Signed Checklists (RSCs)

November 2022

unexpected canonicalization at intermediate systems (which in turn would lead to checksum
verification errors). Validator implementations are expected to treat a checksummed digital
object as a string of arbitrary single octets.

If a fileName field is present, but no digital object within the set of to-be-verified digital objects
has a filename that matches the content of that field, a validator implementation
compare the message digest of each digital object to the value from the hash field of the
associated FileNameAndHash and report matches to the user for further consideration.

SHOULD

8.  Security Considerations

RPs are hereby warned that the data in an RSC is self-asserted. When determining the meaning
of any data contained in an RSC, RPs
 make any assumptions about the signer beyond
the fact that it had sufficient control of the issuing CA to create the object. These data have not
been verified by the Certificate Authority (CA) that issued the CA certificate to the entity that
issued the EE certificate used to validate the RSC.

MUST NOT

RPKI certificates are not bound to real-world identities; see
only associate real-world entities to Internet Number Resources by additionally consulting an
exogenous authority. RSCs are a tool to communicate assertions signed with Internet Number
Resources and do not communicate any other aspect of the resource holder's business
operations, such as the identity of the resource holder itself.

[RFC9255]

 for an elaboration. RPs can

RSC objects are not distributed through the RPKI repository system. From this, it follows that
third parties who do not have a copy of a given RSC may not be aware of the existence of that
RSC. Since RSC objects use EE certificates but all other currently defined types of RPKI object
profiles are published in public CA repositories, an observer may infer from discrepancies in the
repository that RSC object(s) may exist. For example, if a CA does not use random serial numbers
for certificates, an observer could detect gaps between the serial numbers of the published EE
certificates. Similarly, if the CA includes a serial number on a Certificate Revocation List (CRL)
that does not match any published object, an observer could postulate that an RSC EE certificate
was revoked.

Conversely, a gap in serial numbers does not imply that an RSC exists. Nor does the presence in a
CRL of a serial number unknown to the RP imply an RSC object exists: the implicitly referenced
object might not be an RSC, it might have never been published, or it may have been revoked
before it was visible to RPs. In general, it is not possible to confidently infer the existence or non-
existence of RSCs from the repository state without access to a given RSC.

While a one-time-use EE certificate must only be used to generate and sign a single RSC object,
CAs technically are not restricted from generating and signing multiple different RSC objects
with a single key pair. Any RSC objects sharing the same EE certificate cannot be revoked
individually.

Snijders, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9323

RPKI Signed Checklists (RSCs)

November 2022

9.  IANA Considerations

9.1.  SMI Security for S/MIME CMS Content Type (1.2.840.113549.1.9.16.1)

IANA has allocated the following in the "SMI Security for S/MIME CMS Content Type
(1.2.840.113549.1.9.16.1)" registry:

Decimal Description

References

48

id-ct-signedChecklist

RFC 9323

Table 1

9.2.  RPKI Signed Objects

IANA has registered the OID for the RSC in the "RPKI Signed Objects" registry
follows:

[RFC6488]

 as

Name

OID

Reference

Signed Checklist

1.2.840.113549.1.9.16.1.48

RFC 9323

Table 2

9.3.  RPKI Repository Name Schemes

IANA has added the Signed Checklist file extension to the "RPKI Repository Name Schemes"
registry

 as follows:

[RFC6481]

Filename Extension

RPKI Object

Reference

.sig

Table 3

Signed Checklist

RFC 9323

9.4.  SMI Security for S/MIME Module Identifier (1.2.840.113549.1.9.16.0)

IANA has allocated the following in the "SMI Security for S/MIME Module Identifier
(1.2.840.113549.1.9.16.0)" registry:

Decimal Description

References

73

id-mod-rpkiSignedChecklist-2022

RFC 9323

Table 4

Snijders, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9323

RPKI Signed Checklists (RSCs)

November 2022

9.5.  Media Types

IANA has registered the media type "application/rpki-checklist" in the "Media Types" registry as
follows:

Type name:

application

Subtype name:

rpki-checklist

Required parameters:

N/A

Optional parameters:

N/A

Encoding considerations:

binary

Security considerations:

Carries an RPKI Signed Checklist. This media type contains no active

content. See Section 5 of RFC 9323 for further information.

Interoperability considerations:

N/A

Published specification:

RFC 9323

Applications that use this media type:

RPKI operators

Fragment identifier considerations:

N/A

Additional information:

Content:

This media type is a signed object, as defined in [RFC6488], which contains a

payload of a list of checksums as defined in RFC 9323.

Magic number(s):
File extension(s):
Macintosh file type code(s):

N/A
.sig

N/A

Person & email address to contact for further information:

Job Snijders (job@fastly.com)

Intended usage:

COMMON

Restrictions on usage:

N/A

Author:

Job Snijders (job@fastly.com)

Change controller:

IETF

10.  References

10.1.  Normative References

[POSIX]

IEEE and The Open Group "Base Specifications" Issue 7 DOI 10.1109/IEEESTD.
,
<https://publications.opengroup.org/standards/unix/c165>
2016.7582338
.

, 2016,

,

,

Snijders, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9323

RPKI Signed Checklists (RSCs)

November 2022

[RFC2119]

[RFC3779]

[RFC5652]

[RFC6481]

[RFC6487]

[RFC6488]

[RFC7935]

[RFC8174]

[RFC9286]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

K. Seo "X.509 Extensions for IP Addresses and AS
Lynn, C. Kent, S.
,
, and
Identifiers" RFC 3779 DOI 10.17487/RFC3779
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc3779>

, June 2004,

<https://www.rfc-

,

.

Housley, R. "Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS)" STD 70 RFC 5652 DOI
10.17487/RFC5652

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5652>

, September 2009,

,

,

,

,

.

Huston, G. Loomans, R.
,
Repository Structure" RFC 6481 DOI 10.17487/RFC6481
,
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6481>

, and

.

G. Michaelson "A Profile for Resource Certificate

,

, February 2012,

<https://

,

Huston, G. Michaelson, G.
Certificates" RFC 6487 DOI 10.17487/RFC6487
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc6487>

, and

,

.

R. Loomans "A Profile for X.509 PKIX Resource
, February 2012,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Lepinski, M. Chi, A.
,
Public Key Infrastructure (RPKI)" RFC 6488 DOI 10.17487/RFC6488
,
2012,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6488>

S. Kent "Signed Object Template for the Resource

, and

,

.

, February

 and

G. Michaelson, Ed. "The Profile for Algorithms and Key Sizes for
Huston, G.
Use in the Resource Public Key Infrastructure" RFC 7935 DOI 10.17487/RFC7935
,
,
August 2016,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7935>

,

,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Austein, R. Huston, G. Kent, S.
, and
Public Key Infrastructure (RPKI)" RFC 9286 DOI 10.17487/RFC9286
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9286>

M. Lepinski "Manifests for the Resource

, June 2022,

,

,

,

.

10.2.  Informative References

[IANA.ADDRESS-FAMILY-NUMBERS]

IANA "Address Family Numbers" <https://

,

,

www.iana.org/assignments/address-family-numbers>

.

[RFC1952]

[RFC6268]

Deutsch, P. "GZIP file format specification version 4.3" RFC 1952 DOI 10.17487/
RFC1952

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1952>

, May 1996,

.

,

,

,

,

 and

S. Turner "Additional New ASN.1 Modules for the Cryptographic

Schaad, J.
Message Syntax (CMS) and the Public Key Infrastructure Using X.509 (PKIX)"
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 6268 DOI 10.17487/RFC6268
, July 2011,
rfc6268>

,
.

Snijders, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9323

RPKI Signed Checklists (RSCs)

November 2022

[RFC6480]

[RFC9255]

[RPKI-RTA]

[signify]

 and

Lepinski, M.
RFC 6480 DOI 10.17487/RFC6480
info/rfc6480>

,

.

S. Kent "An Infrastructure to Support Secure Internet Routing"
,

,

, February 2012,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

Bush, R.
 and
DOI 10.17487/RFC9255

R. Housley "The 'I' in RPKI Does Not Stand for Identity" RFC 9255

,

,

,

, June 2022,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9255>

.

,

Michaelson, G. Huston, G. Harrison, T. Bruijnzeels, T.
,
profile for Resource Tagged Attestations (RTAs)" Work in Progress Internet-
Draft, draft-ietf-sidrops-rpki-rta-00
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-sidrops-rpki-rta-00>

M. Hoffman "A
,

<https://
.

, 17 January 2021,

, and

,

,

,

Unangst, T.
<https://man.openbsd.org/signify>

 and

.

M. Espie "signify - cryptographically sign and verify files"

,

,

Acknowledgements

,

George Michaelson Geoff Huston Randy Bush Stephen Kent Matt
,

,
 for reviewing the ASN.1 notation and providing suggestions. The authors would like to
Nimrod Levy Tim Bruijnzeels Alberto Leiva Ties de Kock Peter Peele Claudio Jeker Theo
,

The authors wish to thank
Lepinski Rob Austein Ted Unangst
Housley
thank
Buehler Donald Eastlake 3rd Erik Kline Robert Wilton Roman Danyliw Éric Vyncke Lars
Eggert Paul Wouters

,
 for document review and suggestions.

 for prior art. The authors thank

,
Marc Espie

Murray S. Kucherawy

,
Russ

, and

, and

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Authors' Addresses

Job Snijders
Fastly
Amsterdam
Netherlands
Email:

 job@fastly.com

Tom Harrison
Asia Pacific Network Information Centre
6 Cordelia St
South Brisbane QLD 4101
Australia
Email:

 tomh@apnic.net

Ben Maddison
Workonline Communications
Cape Town
South Africa
Email:

 benm@workonline.africa

Snijders, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

