Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9661
Standards Track
September 2024
2070-1721
K. Murchison
Fastmail

RFC 9661
The JSON Meta Application Protocol (JMAP) for Sieve
Scripts

Abstract

This document specifies a data model for managing Sieve scripts on a server using the JSON Meta
Application Protocol (JMAP). Clients can use this protocol to efficiently search, access, organize,
and validate Sieve scripts.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9661
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Murchison

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9661

JMAP Sieve

September 2024

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Notational Conventions

1.2.  Addition to the Capabilities Object

1.2.1.  urn:ietf:params:jmap:sieve

1.2.2.  Example

2.  Sieve Scripts

2.1.  Sieve Script Properties

2.2.  Sieve Script Content

2.3.  SieveScript/get

2.3.1.  Examples

2.4.  SieveScript/set

2.4.1.  Examples

2.5.  SieveScript/query

2.6.  SieveScript/validate

3.  Quotas

4.  Compatibility with JMAP Vacation Response

5.  Security Considerations

6.  IANA Considerations

6.1.  JMAP Capability Registration for "sieve"

6.2.  JMAP Data Type Registration for "SieveScript"

6.3.  JMAP Error Codes Registry

6.3.1.  invalidSieve

6.3.2.  sieveIsActive

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

3

3

3

3

4

6

6

7

7

8

9

11

16

16

17

17

18

18

18

18

19

19

19

19

19

20

21

Murchison

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9661

JMAP Sieve

September 2024

Author's Address

21

1.  Introduction

The JSON Meta Application Protocol (JMAP) [RFC8620]
data, such as mail, calendars, or contacts, between a client and a server. It is optimized for
mobile and web environments, and it aims to provide a consistent interface to different data
types.

 is a generic protocol for synchronizing

This specification defines a data model for managing
JMAP. The data model is designed to allow a server to provide consistent access to the same
scripts via

ManageSieve [RFC5804]

Sieve scripts [RFC5228]

 as well as JMAP.

 on a server using

1.1.  Notational Conventions

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

Type signatures, examples, and property descriptions in this document follow the conventions
established in
established in Sections 1.2 through 1.6 of

. This document also uses data types and terminology

Section 1.1 of [RFC8620]

[RFC8620]
.

The term "SieveScript" (with this specific capitalization) is used to refer to the data type defined
in Section 2 and instances of this data type used throughout this document. Servers
support all properties specified for the data type defined in this document.

MUST

Section 3 of [RFC8620]
For brevity, JMAP API examples (see
property of the "Request" object and the "methodResponses" property of the "Response" object.
All other examples are shown using the

) only show the "methodCalls"

HTTP/1.1 protocol [RFC9112]
.

1.2.  Addition to the Capabilities Object

The "capabilities" object is returned as part of the JMAP Session object; see
This document defines one additional capability URI.

[RFC8620], Section 2
.

1.2.1.  urn:ietf:params:jmap:sieve

The urn:ietf:params:jmap:sieve URI represents support for the SieveScript data type and
associated API methods. The value of this property in the JMAP Session "capabilities" property is
 contain the following information on server capabilities:
an object that

MUST

implementation:

String

Murchison

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9661

JMAP Sieve

September 2024

The name and version of the Sieve implementation.

The value of this property in an account's "accountCapabilities" property is an object that
contain the following information on per-account server capabilities:

MUST

maxSizeScriptName:

UnsignedInt

The maximum length, in octets, allowed for the name of a SieveScript. For compatibility with
 be at least 512 (up to 128 Unicode characters).
ManageSieve, this

MUST

maxSizeScript:

UnsignedInt|null

The maximum size (in octets) of a Sieve script the server is willing to store for the user, or
null for no limit.

maxNumberScripts:

UnsignedInt|null

The maximum number of Sieve scripts the server is willing to store for the user, or null for
no limit.

maxNumberRedirects:

UnsignedInt|null

The maximum number of Sieve "redirect" actions a script can perform during a single
evaluation, or null for no limit. Note that this is different from the total number of "redirect"
actions a script can contain.

sieveExtensions:

String[]

A list of case-sensitive Sieve capability strings (as listed in the Sieve "require" action; see
[RFC5228], Section 3.2

) indicating the extensions supported by the Sieve engine.

notificationMethods:

String[]|null

A list of
extension [RFC5435]

URI scheme parts [RFC3986]

 for notification methods supported by the Sieve

"enotify"

, or null if the extension is not supported by the Sieve engine.

externalLists:

String[]|null

URI scheme parts [RFC3986]

A list of
"extlists" extension [RFC6134]

 for externally stored list types supported by the Sieve
, or null if the extension is not supported by the Sieve engine.

1.2.2.  Example

This example JMAP Session object shows a user that has access to their own Sieve scripts with
support for a few Sieve extensions:

{
  "capabilities": {
    "urn:ietf:params:jmap:core": {
      ...

Murchison

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9661

JMAP Sieve

September 2024

    },
    "urn:ietf:params:jmap:mail": {},
    "urn:ietf:params:jmap:quota": {},
    "urn:ietf:params:jmap:blob": {},
    "urn:ietf:params:jmap:sieve": {
      "implementation": "ACME Email Filtering"
    },
    "urn:ietf:params:jmap:vacationresponse": {},
    ...
  },
  "accounts": {
    "ken": {
      "name": "ken@example.com",
      "isPersonal": true,
      "isReadOnly": false,
      "accountCapabilities": {
        "urn:ietf:params:jmap:core": {},
        "urn:ietf:params:jmap:quota": {},
        "urn:ietf:params:jmap:mail": {
          ...
        },
        "urn:ietf:params:jmap:blob": {
          "supportedTypeNames": [
            "Email"
            "SieveScript",
            ...
          ],
          ...
        },
        "urn:ietf:params:jmap:sieve": {
          "maxSizeScriptName": 512,
          "maxSizeScript": 65536,
          "maxNumberScripts": 5,
          "maxNumberRedirects": null,
          "sieveExtensions": [
            "fileinto",
            "imap4flags",
            "enotify",
            ...
          ],
          "notificationMethods": [
            "mailto"
          ],
          "externalLists": null,
        },
        "urn:ietf:params:jmap:vacationresponse": {},
        ...
      },
      ...
    }
  },
  "primaryAccounts": {
    "urn:ietf:params:jmap:mail": "ken",
    "urn:ietf:params:jmap:sieve": "ken",
    "urn:ietf:params:jmap:vacationresponse": "ken",
    ...
  },
  "username": "ken@example.com",

Murchison

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9661

JMAP Sieve

September 2024

  "apiUrl": "/jmap/",
  "downloadUrl":
    "/jmap/download/{accountId}/{blobId}/{name}?accept={type}",
  "uploadUrl": "/jmap/upload/{accountId}/",
  ...
}

2.  Sieve Scripts

A "SieveScript" object represents a single
the time of final delivery.

Sieve script [RFC5228]

 for filtering email messages at

2.1.  Sieve Script Properties

A "SieveScript" object has the following properties:

id:

Id (immutable; server-set)

The id of the script.

name:

String|null (optional; default is server dependent)

User-visible name for the SieveScript. If non-null, this
of at least 1 character in length, subject to the maximum size given in the "capability" object.

Net-Unicode string [RFC5198]

 be a

MUST

For compatibility with ManageSieve, servers
following Unicode characters: U+0000-U+001F, U+007F-U+009F, U+2028, or U+2029.

 reject names that contain any of the

MUST

Servers

MAY

 reject names that violate server policy (e.g., names containing a slash (/)).

The name

MUST

 be unique among all SieveScripts within an account.

blobId:

Id

The id of the blob containing the raw octets of the script.

isActive:

Boolean (server-set; default: false)

Indicator that the SieveScript is actively filtering incoming messages.

A user may have at most one active script. The
changing the active script or disabling Sieve processing.

SieveScript/set method (Section 2.4)

 is used for

Murchison

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9661

JMAP Sieve

September 2024

2.2.  Sieve Script Content

 be

UTF-8 content [RFC3629]

MUST
Sieve [RFC5228]

A script
of
capability strings not present in the
"ihave" capability string [RFC5463]
unrecognized/unsupported extensions in the "ihave" test.

. A script

MUST NOT

 contain any "require" statement(s) mentioning Sieve
. Note that if the Sieve

"capability" object (Section 1.2.1)

 is present in the "capability" object, the script

MAY

 mention

 of at least 1 character in length, subject to the syntax

Script content is treated as a binary blob and uploaded/downloaded via the mechanisms
provided in Sections 6.1 and 6.2 of
management methods provided in Sections 4.1 and 4.2 of

, respectively, and/or via the JMAP Blob

, respectively.

[RFC8620]

[RFC9404]

Downloading script content via the JMAP downloadUrl or the Blob/get method provides
functionality equivalent to that of the GETSCRIPT command defined in

[RFC5804]
.

2.3.  SieveScript/get

This is a standard "/get" method as described in
be null to fetch all scripts at once.

[RFC8620], Section 5.1

. The "ids" argument may

This method provides functionality equivalent to that of the LISTSCRIPTS command defined in
[RFC5804]
.

Murchison

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9661

JMAP Sieve

September 2024

2.3.1.  Examples

List all scripts:

[
  ["SieveScript/get", {
    "accountId": "ken"
  }, "0"]
]

[
  [
    "SieveScript/get",
    {
      "state": "1634915373.240633104-120",
      "list": [
        {
          "id": "2d647053-dded-418d-917a-63eda3ac8f7b",
          "name": "test1",
          "isActive": true,
          "blobId": "S7"
        }
      ],
      "notFound": [],
      "accountId": "ken"
    },
    "0"
  ]
]

Download the script content via the JMAP downloadUrl as advertised in the example in Section
1.2.2:

GET /jmap/download/ken/S7/test1.siv?accept=application/sieve HTTP/1.1
Host: jmap.example.com
Authorization: Basic a2VuOnBhc3N3b3Jk

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 22 Oct 2021 15:27:38 GMT
Content-Type: application/sieve; charset=utf-8
Content-Disposition: attachment; filename="test1.siv"
Content-Length: 49

require ["fileinto"];
fileinto "INBOX.target";

Fetch script properties and content in a single JMAP API request using the
management extension [RFC9404]
:

JMAP Blob

[
  ["SieveScript/get", {

Murchison

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9661

JMAP Sieve

September 2024

    "accountId": "ken",
    "ids": [ "2d647053-dded-418d-917a-63eda3ac8f7b" ]
  }, "0"],
  ["Blob/get", {
    "accountId": "ken",
    "#ids": {
      "resultOf": "0",
      "name": "SieveScript/get",
      "path": "/list/*/blobId"
    }
  }, "1"]
]

[
  [
    "SieveScript/get",
    {
      "state": "1634915373.240633104-120",
      "list": [
        {
          "id": "2d647053-dded-418d-917a-63eda3ac8f7b",
          "name": "test1",
          "isActive": true,
          "blobId": "S7"
        }
      ],
      "notFound": [],
      "accountId": "ken"
    },
    "0"
  ],
  [
    "Blob/get",
    {
      "list": [
        {
          "id": "S7",
          "data:asText":
     "require [\"fileinto\"];\\r\\nfileinto \"INBOX.target\";\\r\\n",
          "size": 49
        }
      ],
      "notFound": [],
      "accountId": "ken"
    },
    "1"
  ]
]

2.4.  SieveScript/set

This is a standard "/set" method as described in
additional optional request arguments:

[RFC8620], Section 5.3

, but with the following

onSuccessActivateScript:

Id

Murchison

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9661

JMAP Sieve

September 2024

The id of the SieveScript to activate if and only if all of the creations, modifications, and
destructions (if any) succeed. (For references to SieveScript creations, this is equivalent to a
creation-reference, so the id will be the creation id prefixed with a "#".) The currently active
SieveScript (if any) will be deactivated before activating the specified SieveScript.

If omitted, or if the id is either invalid or nonexistent, it
active SieveScript (if any) will remain as such.

MUST

 be ignored, and the currently

The id of any activated SieveScript
argument in the response as appropriate, including a value of "true" for the "isActive"
property. The id of any deactivated SieveScript
in the response, including a value of "false" for the "isActive" property.

 be reported in either the "created" or "updated"

 be reported in the "updated" argument

MUST

MUST

onSuccessDeactivateScript:

Boolean

If "true", the currently active SieveScript (if any) will be deactivated if and only if all of the
creations, modifications, and destructions (if any) succeed. If "false" or omitted, the currently
active SieveScript (if any) will remain as such.

The id of any deactivated SieveScript
response, including a value of "false" for the "isActive" property.

MUST

 be reported in the "updated" argument in the

If both the "onSuccessActivateScript" and "onSuccessDeactivateScript" arguments are present in
the request, then "onSuccessDeactivateScript"
present in the request, the currently active SieveScript (if any) will remain as such.

 be processed first. If neither argument is

MUST

This method provides functionality equivalent to that of the PUTSCRIPT, DELETESCRIPT,
RENAMESCRIPT, and SETACTIVE commands defined in

[RFC5804]
.

Script content must first be uploaded as per Section 2.2 prior to referencing it in a SieveScript/set
call.

If the SieveScript cannot be created or updated because it would result in two SieveScripts with
the same name, the server
MUST
"existingId" property of type "Id"
existing SieveScript.

 reject the request with an "alreadyExists" SetError. An
MUST

 be included on the SetError object with the id of the

If the SieveScript cannot be created or updated because its size exceeds the "maxSizeScript" limit,
the server

 reject the request with a "tooLarge" SetError.

MUST

If the SieveScript cannot be created because it would exceed the "maxNumberScripts" limit or
would exceed a server-imposed storage limit, the server
"overQuota" SetError.

 reject the request with an

MUST

The active SieveScript
SieveScript/set method call.

MUST NOT

 be destroyed unless it is first deactivated in a separate

The following extra SetError types are defined:

Murchison

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9661

JMAP Sieve

September 2024

For "create" and "update":

invalidSieve:

The SieveScript content violates the

, and/or one or
more extensions mentioned in the script's "require" statement(s) are not supported by the
Sieve interpreter. The "description" property on the SetError object
error message giving at least the line number of the first error.

Sieve grammar [RFC5228]

SHOULD

 contain a specific

For "destroy":

sieveIsActive:

The SieveScript is active.

2.4.1.  Examples

Upload a script requiring the Imap4Flags Extension
advertised in the example in Section 1.2.2:

[RFC5232]

 using the JMAP uploadUrl as

POST /jmap/upload/ken/ HTTP/1.1
Host: jmap.example.com
Authorization: Basic a2VuOnBhc3N3b3Jk
Content-Type: application/sieve
Content-Length: 98

require "imapflags";

if address :is ["To", "Cc"] "jmap@ietf.org" {
  setflag "\\Flagged";
}

HTTP/1.1 201 Created
Date: Thu, 10 Dec 2020 17:14:31 GMT
Content-Type: application/json; charset=utf-8
Content-Length: 171

{
  "accountId": "ken",
  "blobId": "Gabcc83e44a6e19991c4568d0b94e1767c83dd123",
  "type": "application/sieve"
  "size": 98
}

Murchison

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9661

JMAP Sieve

September 2024

Create and activate a script using the uploaded blob. Note that the response shows that an
existing active script has been deactivated in lieu of the newly created script being activated.

[
  ["SieveScript/set", {
    "accountId": "ken",
    "create": {
      "A": {
        "name": null,
        "blobId": "Gabcc83e44a6e19991c4568d0b94e1767c83dd123"
      }
    },
    "onSuccessActivateScript": "#A"
  }, "0"]
]

[
  [
    "SieveScript/set",
    {
      "oldState": "1603741717.50737918-4096",
      "newState": "1603741751.227268529-4096",
      "created": {
        "A": {
          "id": "dd1b164f-8cdc-448c-9f54",
          "name": "ken-20201210T171432-0",
          "blobId": "Sdd1b164f-8cdc-448c-9f54",
          "isActive": true
        }
      },
      "updated": {
        "8abd6f4a-bcb4d-87650-3fcd": {
          "isActive": false
        }
      },
      "destroyed": null,
      "notCreated": null,
      "notUpdated": null,
      "notDestroyed": null,
      "accountId": "ken"
    },
    "0"
  ]
]

Update the script content using the

JMAP Blob management extension [RFC9404]
:

{
[
  ["Blob/upload", {
    "accountId": "ken",
    "create": {
      "B": {
        "data": [ {
          "data:asText":

Murchison

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9661

JMAP Sieve

September 2024

            "redirect \"ken@example.com\"\r\n;"
         } ],
        "type": "application/sieve"
      }
    }
  }, "1"],
  ["SieveScript/set", {
    "accountId": "ken",
    "update": { "dd1b164f-8cdc-448c-9f54": {
      "blobId": "#B"
      }
    }
  }, "2"]
]

[
  [
    "Blob/upload",
    {
      "oldState": null,
      "newState": "1603741700.309607123-0128",
      "created": {
        "B": {
          "id": "G969c83e44a6e10871c4568d0b94e1767c83ddeae",
          "blobId": "G969c83e44a6e10871c4568d0b94e1767c83ddeae",
          "type": "application/sieve",
          "size": 29
        }
      },
      "notCreated": null,
      "accountId": "ken"
    },
    "1"
  ],
  [
    "SieveScript/set",
    {
      "oldState": "1603741751.227268529-4096",
      "newState": "1603742603.309607868-4096",
      "created": null,
      "updated": {
        "dd1b164f-8cdc-448c-9f54": null
      },
      "destroyed": null,
      "notCreated": null,
      "notUpdated": null,
      "notDestroyed": null,
      "accountId": "ken"
    },
    "2"
  ]
]

Murchison

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9661

JMAP Sieve

September 2024

Update the script name, and deactivate it:

[
  ["SieveScript/set", {
    "accountId": "ken",
    "update": { "dd1b164f-8cdc-448c-9f54": {
      "name": "myscript"
      }
    },
    "onSuccessDeactivateScript": true
  }, "3"]
]

[
  [
    "SieveScript/set",
    {
      "oldState": "1603742603.309607868-4096",
      "newState": "1603742967.852315428-4096",
      "created": null,
      "updated": {
        "dd1b164f-8cdc-448c-9f54": {
          "isActive": false
        }
      },
      "destroyed": null,
      "notCreated": null,
      "notUpdated": null,
      "notDestroyed": null,
      "accountId": "ken"
    },
    "3"
  ]
]

Murchison

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9661

JMAP Sieve

September 2024

Reactivate the script:

[
  ["SieveScript/set", {
    "accountId": "ken",
    "onSuccessActivateScript": "dd1b164f-8cdc-448c-9f54"
  }, "4"]
]

[
  [
    "SieveScript/set",
    {
      "oldState": "1603742967.852315428-4096",
      "newState": "1603744460.316617118-4096",
      "created": null,
      "updated": {
        "dd1b164f-8cdc-448c-9f54": {
          "isActive": true
        }
      },
      "destroyed": null,
      "notCreated": null,
      "notUpdated": null,
      "notDestroyed": null,
      "accountId": "ken"
    },
    "4"
  ]
]

Deactivate and destroy the active script:

[
  ["SieveScript/set", {
    "accountId": "ken",
    "onSuccessDeactivateScript": true
  }, "5"],
  ["SieveScript/set", {
    "accountId": "ken",
    "destroy": [ "dd1b164f-8cdc-448c-9f54" ]
  }, "6"]
]

[
  [
    "SieveScript/set",
    {
      "oldState": "1603744460.316617118-4096",
      "newState": "1603744637.575375572-4096",
      "created": null,
      "updated": {
        "dd1b164f-8cdc-448c-9f54": {
          "isActive": false
        }

Murchison

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9661

JMAP Sieve

September 2024

      },
      "destroyed": null,
      "notCreated": null,
      "notUpdated": null,
      "notDestroyed": null,
      "accountId": "ken"
    },
    "5"
  ],
  [
    "SieveScript/set",
    {
      "oldState": "1603744637.575375572-4096",
      "newState": "1603744637.854390875-4096",
      "created": null,
      "updated": null,
      "destroyed": [
        "dd1b164f-8cdc-448c-9f54"
      ],
      "notCreated": null,
      "notUpdated": null,
      "notDestroyed": null,
      "accountId": "ken"
    },
    "6"
  ]
]

2.5.  SieveScript/query

This is a standard "/query" method as described in
object has the following properties, either of which may be omitted:

[RFC8620], Section 5.5

. A "FilterCondition"

name:

String

The SieveScript "name" property contains the given string.

isActive:

Boolean

The "isActive" property of the SieveScript must be identical to the value given to match the
condition.

The following SieveScript properties

MUST

 be supported for sorting:

•

name

•

isActive

2.6.  SieveScript/validate

This method is used by the client to verify Sieve script validity without storing the script on the
server.

Murchison

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9661

JMAP Sieve

September 2024

The method takes the following arguments:

accountId:

Id

The id of the account to use.

blobId:

Id

The id of the blob containing the raw octets of the script to validate, subject to the same
requirements in Section 2.2.

The response has the following arguments:

accountId:

Id

The id of the account used for this call.

error:

SetError|null

An "invalidSieve" SetError object if the script content is invalid (see Section 2.4), or null if the
script content is valid.

This method provides functionality equivalent to that of the CHECKSCRIPT command defined in
[RFC5804]
.

Script content must first be uploaded as per Section 2.2 prior to referencing it in a SieveScript/
validate call.

3.  Quotas

SHOULD

Servers
 impose quotas on Sieve scripts to prevent malicious users from exceeding
available storage. Administration of such quotas is outside of the scope of this specification;
however,

 defines a data model for users to obtain quota details over JMAP.

[RFC9425]

The mechanism for handling SieveScript requests that would place a user over a quota setting is
discussed in Section 2.4.

4.  Compatibility with JMAP Vacation Response

Section 8 of [RFC8621]
incoming email messages. Servers that implement the VacationResponse as a Sieve script that
resides among other user scripts are subject to the following requirements:

 defines a "VacationResponse" object to represent an autoresponder to

• MUST

 allow the VacationResponse Sieve script to be fetched by the

SieveScript/get method

(Section 2.3)

.

• MUST

 allow the VacationResponse Sieve script to be activated or deactivated via the

"onSuccessActivateScript" argument to the

SieveScript/set method (Section 2.4)

.

Murchison

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9661

JMAP Sieve

September 2024

• MUST NOT

 allow the VacationResponse Sieve script to be destroyed or have its content

SieveScript/set method (Section 2.4)

updated by the
a "forbidden" SetError. A "description" property
script can only be modified by a VacationResponse/set method.

MAY

. Any such request

 be rejected with
MUST
 be present with an explanation that the

5.  Security Considerations

All security considerations discussed in
specification.

JMAP [RFC8620]

 and

Sieve [RFC5228]

 apply to this

MUST

Additionally, implementations
parsers
prepared to deal with resource exhaustion (e.g., allocation of enormous strings, lists, or
command blocks).

 fail gracefully in the face of syntactically invalid or malicious content and

 treat Sieve script content as untrusted data. As such, script

MUST

MUST

 be

6.  IANA Considerations

6.1.  JMAP Capability Registration for "sieve"

IANA has registered "sieve" in the "JMAP Capabilities" registry as follows:

Capability Name:

urn:ietf:params:jmap:sieve

Reference:

RFC 9661

Intended Use:

common

Change Controller:

IETF

Security and Privacy Considerations:

RFC 9661, Section 5

6.2.  JMAP Data Type Registration for "SieveScript"

IANA has registered "SieveScript" in the "JMAP Data Types" registry as follows:

Type Name:

SieveScript

Can Reference Blobs:

Yes

Can Use for State Change:

Yes

Capability:

urn:ietf:params:jmap:sieve

Reference:

RFC 9661

Murchison

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9661

JMAP Sieve

September 2024

6.3.  JMAP Error Codes Registry

IANA has registered the following two new error codes in the "JMAP Error Codes" registry, as
defined in

[RFC8620]
.

6.3.1.  invalidSieve

JMAP Error Code:

invalidSieve

Intended Use:

common

Change Controller:

IETF

Reference:

RFC 9661, Section 2.4

Description:

The SieveScript violates the

Sieve grammar [RFC5228]

, and/or one or more

extensions mentioned in the script's "require" statement(s) are not supported by the Sieve
interpreter.

6.3.2.  sieveIsActive

JMAP Error Code:

sieveIsActive

Intended Use:

common

Change Controller:

IETF

Reference:

RFC 9661, Section 2.4

Description:

The client tried to destroy the active SieveScript.

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC3629]

[RFC3986]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Yergeau, F. "UTF-8, a transformation format of ISO 10646" STD 63 RFC 3629
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC3629
rfc3629>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, November 2003,

.

,

,

,

,

Berners-Lee, T. Fielding, R.
, and
Generic Syntax" STD 66 RFC 3986 DOI 10.17487/RFC3986
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3986>

,

,

,

.

L. Masinter "Uniform Resource Identifier (URI):

,

, January 2005,

Murchison

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9661

JMAP Sieve

September 2024

[RFC5198]

[RFC5228]

[RFC5435]

[RFC6134]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8620]

[RFC8621]

 and

Klensin, J.
,
5198 DOI 10.17487/RFC5198
,
, March 2008,
rfc5198>

.

M. Padlipsky "Unicode Format for Network Interchange" RFC

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

 and

Guenther, P., Ed.
RFC 5228 DOI 10.17487/RFC5228
rfc5228>

,
.

T. Showalter, Ed. "Sieve: An Email Filtering Language"

,

,

, January 2008,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

Melnikov, A., Ed. Leiba, B., Ed. Segmuller, W.
Filtering: Extension for Notifications" RFC 5435 DOI 10.17487/RFC5435
2009,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5435>

, and
,
.

T. Martin "Sieve Email

,

,

,

, January

Melnikov, A.
DOI 10.17487/RFC6134

 and

B. Leiba "Sieve Extension: Externally Stored Lists" RFC 6134

,

,

,

, July 2011,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6134>

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Jenkins, N.
,
 and
8620 DOI 10.17487/RFC8620
,
rfc8620>

.

C. Newman "The JSON Meta Application Protocol (JMAP)" RFC

,

, July 2019,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

 and

Jenkins, N.
Mail" RFC 8621 DOI 10.17487/RFC8621
,
editor.org/info/rfc8621>

C. Newman "The JSON Meta Application Protocol (JMAP) for
,
, August 2019,

<https://www.rfc-

,

.

7.2.  Informative References

[RFC5232]

[RFC5463]

[RFC5804]

[RFC9112]

[RFC9404]

[RFC9425]

Melnikov, A. "Sieve Email Filtering: Imap4flags Extension" RFC 5232 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5232>
10.17487/RFC5232

, January 2008,

,

,

,

.

Freed, N. "Sieve Email Filtering: Ihave Extension" RFC 5463 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5463

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5463>

,
, March 2009,

,

,

.

Melnikov, A., Ed.
Scripts" RFC 5804 DOI 10.17487/RFC5804
,
info/rfc5804>

 and
,

.

T. Martin "A Protocol for Remotely Managing Sieve
, July 2010,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

,

,

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
9112 DOI 10.17487/RFC9112
,
rfc9112>

.

, June 2022,

, and

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP/1.1" STD 99 RFC

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

Gondwana, B., Ed. "JSON Meta Application Protocol (JMAP) Blob Management
Extension" RFC 9404 DOI 10.17487/RFC9404
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc9404>

<https://www.rfc-

, August 2023,

,

.

Cordier, R., Ed. "JSON Meta Application Protocol (JMAP) for Quotas" RFC 9425
DOI 10.17487/RFC9425

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9425>

, June 2023,

,

,

.

,

Murchison

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9661

JMAP Sieve

September 2024

Acknowledgments

The concepts in this document are based largely on those in
thank the authors of that document for providing both inspiration and some borrowed text for
this document.

. The author would like to

[RFC5804]

The author would also like to thank the following individuals for contributing their ideas and
support for writing this specification:
Jenkins Alexey Melnikov

Joris Baum Mauro De Gennaro Bron Gondwana Neil

Ricardo Signes
.

, and

,

,

,

,

Author's Address

Kenneth Murchison
Fastmail US LLC
1429 Walnut Street, Suite 1201
Philadelphia PA 19102
,
United States of America
Email:

murch@fastmailteam.com

Murchison

Standards Track

Page 21

