Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9540
Standards Track
February 2024
2070-1721
T. Pauly
Apple Inc.

T. Reddy.K
Nokia

RFC 9540
Discovery of Oblivious Services via Service Binding
Records

Abstract

This document defines a parameter that can be included in Service Binding (SVCB) and HTTPS
DNS resource records to denote that a service is accessible using Oblivious HTTP, by offering an
Oblivious Gateway Resource through which to access the target. This document also defines a
mechanism for learning the key configuration of the discovered Oblivious Gateway Resource.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9540
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in effect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Pauly & Reddy.K

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9540

Oblivious Services in SVCB

February 2024

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Conventions and Definitions

3.  Applicability

4.  The "ohttp" SvcParamKey

4.1.  Use in HTTPS Service RRs

4.2.  Use in DNS Server SVCB RRs

4.2.1.  Use with DDR

4.2.2.  Use with DNR

5.  Gateway Location

6.  Key Configuration Fetching

7.  Security and Privacy Considerations

7.1.  Key Targeting Attacks

7.2.  dohpath Targeting Attacks

8.  IANA Considerations

8.1.  SVCB Service Parameter

8.2.  Well-Known URI

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

2

3

3

4

4

5

5

6

6

6

7

7

8

8

8

8

9

9

9

10

[OHTTP]

 allows clients to encrypt messages exchanged with an Oblivious Target

Oblivious HTTP
Resource (target). The messages are encapsulated in encrypted messages to an Oblivious
Gateway Resource (gateway), which offers Oblivious HTTP access to the target. The gateway is
accessed via an Oblivious Relay Resource (relay), which proxies the encapsulated messages to

Pauly & Reddy.K

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9540

Oblivious Services in SVCB

February 2024

hide the identity of the client. Overall, this architecture is designed in such a way that the relay
cannot inspect the contents of messages, and the gateway and target cannot learn the client's
identity from a single transaction.

Since Oblivious HTTP deployments typically involve very specific coordination between clients,
relays, and gateways, the key configuration is often shared in a bespoke fashion. However, some
deployments involve clients discovering targets and their associated gateways more dynamically.
For example, a network might operate a DNS resolver that provides more optimized or more
relevant DNS answers and is accessible using Oblivious HTTP, and might want to advertise
[DDR]
support for Oblivious HTTP via mechanisms like Discovery of Designated Resolvers
Discovery of Network-designated Resolvers
trusted relays.

. Clients can access these gateways through

[DNR]

 and

This document defines a way to use DNS resource records (RRs) to advertise that an HTTP service
supports Oblivious HTTP. This advertisement is a parameter that can be included in Service
Binding (SVCB) and HTTPS DNS RRs
that a service can act as a target and has a gateway that can provide access to the target.

 (Section 4). The presence of this parameter indicates

[SVCB]

The client learns the URI to use for the gateway using a well-known URI suffix
"ohttp-gateway", which is accessed on the target (Section 5). This means that for deployments
that support this kind of discovery, the Gateway and Target Resources need to be located on the
same host.

[WELLKNOWN]
,

This document also defines a way to fetch a gateway's key configuration from the gateway
(Section 6).

This mechanism does not aid in the discovery of relays; relay configuration is out of scope for
this document. Models in which this discovery mechanism is applicable are described in Section
3.

2.  Conventions and Definitions

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Applicability

There are multiple models in which the discovery mechanism defined in this document can be
used. These include:

•

Upgrading regular (non-proxied) HTTP to Oblivious HTTP. In this model, the client intends to
communicate with a specific target service and prefers to use Oblivious HTTP if it is
available. The target service has a gateway that it offers to allow access using Oblivious
HTTP. Once the client learns about the gateway, it "upgrades" its requests from non-proxied
HTTP to Oblivious HTTP to access the target service.

Pauly & Reddy.K

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9540

Oblivious Services in SVCB

February 2024

•

Discovering alternative Oblivious HTTP services. In this model, the client has a default target
service that it uses. For example, this may be a public DNS resolver that is accessible over
Oblivious HTTP. The client is willing to use alternative target services if they are discovered,
which may provide more optimized or more relevant responses.

In both of these deployment models, the client is configured with a relay that it trusts for
Oblivious HTTP transactions. This relay needs to provide either (1) generic access to gateways or
(2) a service to clients to allow them to check which gateways are accessible.

4.  The "ohttp" SvcParamKey

The "ohttp" SvcParamKey is used to indicate that a service described in a SVCB RR can be
accessed as a target using an associated gateway. The service that is queried by the client hosts
one or more Target Resources.

In order to access the service's Target Resources using Oblivious HTTP, the client needs to send
encapsulated messages to the Gateway Resource and the gateway's key configuration (both of
which can be retrieved using the method described in Section 6).

Both the presentation and wire-format values for the "ohttp" parameter

MUST

 be empty.

Services can include the "ohttp" parameter in the mandatory parameter list if the service is only
accessible using Oblivious HTTP. Marking the "ohttp" parameter as mandatory will cause clients
that do not understand the parameter to ignore that SVCB RR. Including the "ohttp" parameter
without marking it mandatory advertises a service that is optionally available using Oblivious
HTTP. Note also that multiple SVCB RRs can be provided to indicate separate configurations.

The media type to use for encapsulated requests made to a target service depends on the scheme
of the SVCB RR. This document defines the interpretation for the "https" scheme
"dns" scheme
MUST
interpretation and meaning of the configuration.

. Other schemes that want to use this parameter

[SVCB]
 define the

[DNS-SVCB]

 and the

4.1.  Use in HTTPS Service RRs

For the "https" scheme, which uses the HTTPS RR type instead of SVCB, the presence of the
"ohttp" parameter means that the target being described is an Oblivious HTTP service that is
accessible using the default "message/bhttp" media type

[OHTTP] [BINARY-HTTP]
.

For example, an HTTPS service RR for svc.example.com that supports Oblivious HTTP could look
like this:

svc.example.com. 7200  IN HTTPS 1 . ( alpn=h2 ohttp )

A similar RR for a service that only supports Oblivious HTTP could look like this:

Pauly & Reddy.K

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9540

Oblivious Services in SVCB

February 2024

svc.example.com. 7200  IN HTTPS 1 . ( mandatory=ohttp ohttp )

4.2.  Use in DNS Server SVCB RRs

For the "dns" scheme, as defined in
that the DNS server being described has a DNS-over-HTTPS (DoH) service
 that can be
accessed using Oblivious HTTP. Requests to the resolver are sent to the gateway using binary
, containing inner requests
HTTP with the default "message/bhttp" media type
that use the "application/dns-message" media type

, the presence of the "ohttp" parameter means

[BINARY-HTTP]
[DOH]
.

[DNS-SVCB]

[DOH]

If the "ohttp" parameter is included in a DNS server SVCB RR, the "alpn" parameter
at least one HTTP value (such as "h2" or "h3").

MUST

 include

In order for DoH-capable recursive resolvers to function as Oblivious HTTP targets, their
associated gateways need to be accessible via a client-trusted relay. DoH recursive resolvers used
with the discovery mechanisms described in this section can be either publicly accessible or
specific to a network. In general, only publicly accessible DoH recursive resolvers will work as
Oblivious HTTP targets, unless there is a coordinated deployment with a relay to access the
network-specific DoH recursive resolvers.

4.2.1.  Use with DDR

Clients can discover that a DoH recursive resolver supports Oblivious HTTP using DDR, by either
querying _dns.resolver.arpa to a locally configured resolver or querying using the name of a
resolver

[DDR]
.

For example, a DoH service advertised over DDR can be annotated as supporting resolution via
Oblivious HTTP using the following RR:

_dns.resolver.arpa  7200  IN SVCB 1 doh.example.net (
     alpn=h2 dohpath=/dns-query{?dns} ohttp )

Section 4.2 of [DDR]

Clients still need to perform verification of oblivious DoH servers -- specifically, the TLS
certificate checks described in
discovered oblivious services need to be on the same host, this means that the client needs to
verify that the certificate presented by the gateway passes the required checks. These checks can
be performed when looking up the configuration on the gateway as described in Section 6 and
can be done either directly or via the relay or another proxy to avoid exposing client IP
addresses.

. Since the Gateway and Target Resources for

[DDR]

, where only the IP address is validated,

Opportunistic Discovery
general with Oblivious HTTP, since this mode primarily exists to support resolvers that use
private or local IP addresses, which will usually not be accessible when using a relay. If a
configuration occurs where the resolver is accessible but cannot use certificate-based validation,
the client
 ensure that the relay only accesses the gateway and target using the unencrypted
resolver's original IP address.

SHOULD NOT

 be used in

MUST

Pauly & Reddy.K

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9540

Oblivious Services in SVCB

February 2024

For the case of DoH recursive resolvers, clients also need to ensure that they are not being
targeted with unique DoH paths that would reveal their identity. See Section 7 for more
discussion.

4.2.2.  Use with DNR

The SvcParamKey defined in this document also can be used with Discovery of Network-
designated Resolvers
included in DHCP and Router Advertisement messages.

. In this case, the oblivious configuration and path parameters can be

[DNR]

While DNR does not require the same kind of verification as DDR, clients that learn about DoH
recursive resolvers still need to ensure that they are not being targeted with unique DoH paths
that would reveal their identity. See Section 7 for more discussion.

5.  Gateway Location

Once a client has discovered that a service supports Oblivious HTTP via the "ohttp" parameter in
a SVCB or HTTPS RR, it needs to be able to send requests via a relay to the correct gateway
location.

This document defines a well-known resource
which is an Oblivious Gateway Resource available on the same host as the Target Resource.

, "/.well-known/ohttp-gateway",

[WELLKNOWN]

Some servers might not want to operate the gateway on a well-known URI. In such cases, these
) to direct clients and relays to
servers can use 3xx (Redirection) responses (
the correct location of the gateway. Such redirects would apply to both (1) requests made to fetch
key configurations (as defined in Section 6) and (2) encapsulated requests made via a relay.

Section 15.4 of [HTTP]

MUST NOT

If a client receives a redirect when fetching the key configuration from the well-known Gateway
Resource, it
 communicate the redirected gateway URI to the relay as the location of
the gateway to use. Doing so would allow the gateway to target clients by encoding unique or
client-identifying values in the redirected URI. Instead, relays being used with dynamically
discovered gateways
 use the well-known Gateway Resource and follow any redirects
independently of redirects that clients received. The relay can remember such redirects across
oblivious requests for all clients in order to avoid added latency.

MUST

6.  Key Configuration Fetching

Clients also need to know the key configuration of a gateway before encapsulating and sending
requests to the relay.

If a client fetches the key configuration directly from the gateway, it will expose identifiers like a
client IP address to the gateway. The privacy and security implications of fetching the key
configuration are discussed more in Section 7. Clients can use an HTTP proxy to hide their IP
addresses when fetching key configurations. Clients can also perform consistency checks to
validate that they are not receiving unique key configurations, as discussed in Section 7.1.

Pauly & Reddy.K

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9540

Oblivious Services in SVCB

February 2024

In order to fetch the key configuration of a gateway discovered in the manner described in
Section 5, the client issues a GET request (either through a proxy or directly) to the URI of the
gateway specifying the "application/ohttp-keys" media type

 in the Accept header.

[OHTTP]

For example, if the client knows an Oblivious Gateway URI, https://svc.example.com/.well-known/
ohttp-gateway, it could fetch the key configuration with the following request:

GET /.well-known/ohttp-gateway HTTP/1.1
Host: svc.example.com
Accept: application/ohttp-keys

Gateways that coordinate with targets that advertise Oblivious HTTP support
GET requests for their key configuration in this manner, unless there is another out-of-band
configuration model that is usable by clients. Gateways respond with their key configuration in
the response body, with a content type of "application/ohttp-keys".

 support

SHOULD

7.  Security and Privacy Considerations

Attackers on a network can remove SVCB information from cleartext DNS answers that are not
protected by DNSSEC
indications for Oblivious HTTP support are just hints, a client can mitigate this by always
checking for a gateway configuration (Section 6) on the well-known gateway location (Section 5).
Using encrypted DNS along with DNSSEC can also provide such a mitigation.

. This can effectively downgrade clients. However, since SVCB

[DNSSEC]

When clients fetch a gateway's configuration (Section 6), they can expose their identity in the
form of an IP address if they do not connect via a proxy or some other IP-hiding mechanism. In
some circumstances, this might not be a privacy concern, since revealing that a particular client
IP address is preparing to use an Oblivious HTTP service can be expected. However, if a client is
otherwise trying to hide its IP address or location (and not merely decouple its specific requests
from its IP address), or if revealing its IP address facilitates key targeting attacks (if a gateway
service uses IP addresses to associate specific configurations with specific clients), a proxy or
similar mechanism can be used to fetch the gateway's configuration.

When discovering designated oblivious DoH recursive resolvers using this mechanism, clients
need to ensure that the designation is trusted in lieu of being able to directly check the contents
of the gateway server's TLS certificate. See Section 4.2.1 for more discussion, as well as Section
8
("Security Considerations")

[DNS-SVCB]
.

 of

7.1.  Key Targeting Attacks

[OHTTP]

, client requests using Oblivious HTTP can only be linked by recognizing

As discussed in
the key configuration. In order to prevent unwanted linkability and tracking, clients using any
key configuration discovery mechanism need to be concerned with attacks that target a specific
user or population with a unique key configuration.

Pauly & Reddy.K

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9540

Oblivious Services in SVCB

February 2024

There are several approaches clients can use to mitigate key targeting attacks.
provides an overview of the options for ensuring that the key configurations are consistent
between different clients. Clients
 employ some technique to mitigate key targeting
attacks, such as the option of confirming the key with a shared proxy as described in
[CONSISTENCY]
the client can stop using the gateway and, potentially, report the targeting attack so that other
clients can avoid using this gateway in the future.

. If a client detects that a gateway is using per-client targeted key configuration,

[CONSISTENCY]

SHOULD

7.2.  dohpath Targeting Attacks

For oblivious DoH servers, an attacker could use unique "dohpath" values to target or identify
specific clients. This attack is very similar to the generic OHTTP key targeting attack described
above.

A client can avoid these targeting attacks by only allowing a single "dohpath" value, such as the
commonly used "/dns-query{?dns}" or another pre-known value. If the client allows arbitrary
"dohpath" values, it
 mitigate targeting attacks with a consistency check, such as using
one of the mechanisms described in
another source. Clients might choose to only employ a consistency check on a percentage of
discovery events, depending on the capacity of consistency check options and their deployment
threat model.

 to validate the "dohpath" value with

[CONSISTENCY]

SHOULD

8.  IANA Considerations

8.1.  SVCB Service Parameter

This document adds the following entry to the "Service Parameter Keys (SvcParamKeys)" registry
[SVCB]

. This parameter is defined in Section 4.

Number Name Meaning

Change
Controller

8

ohttp

Denotes that a service operates an
Oblivious HTTP target

IETF

Reference

RFC 9540,
Section 4

Table 1

8.2.  Well-Known URI

IANA has added one entry in the "Well-Known URIs" registry

[WELLKNOWN]
.

URI Suffix:

ohttp-gateway

Change Controller:

IETF

Reference:

RFC 9540

Status:

permanent

Pauly & Reddy.K

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9540

Oblivious Services in SVCB

February 2024

Related Information: N/A

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[BINARY-HTTP]

[DDR]

[DNR]

[DNS-SVCB]

[DOH]

[HTTP]

[OHTTP]

[RFC2119]

[RFC8174]

[SVCB]

[WELLKNOWN]

Thomson, M.

 and

C. A. Wood "Binary Representation of HTTP Messages" RFC

,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

9292 DOI 10.17487/RFC9292
,
rfc9292>

.

, August 2022,

,

Pauly, T. Kinnear, E. Wood, C. A. McManus, P.
Designated Resolvers" RFC 9462 DOI 10.17487/RFC9462
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9462>

, and

,
,

,

.

T. Jensen "Discovery of
, November 2023,

,

,

Boucadair, M., Ed. Reddy.K, T., Ed. Wing, D. Cook, N.
Router Advertisement Options for the Discovery of Network-designated
Resolvers (DNR)" RFC 9463 DOI 10.17487/RFC9463
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9463>

, November 2023,

, and

,

,

,

.

<https://

T. Jensen "DHCP and

,

Schwartz, B. "Service Binding Mapping for DNS Servers" RFC 9461 DOI
10.17487/RFC9461

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9461>

, November 2023,

,

,

.

Hoffman, P.
10.17487/RFC8484

 and

P. McManus "DNS Queries over HTTPS (DoH)" RFC 8484 DOI

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8484>

, October 2018,

,

,

.

,

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
97 RFC 9110 DOI 10.17487/RFC9110
rfc9110>

,

,

.

, and
, June 2022,

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP Semantics" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

Thomson, M.
RFC9458

 and
, January 2024,

C. A. Wood "Oblivious HTTP" RFC 9458 DOI 10.17487/
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9458>

,

,

,

.

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Schwartz, B. Bishop, M.
,
,
Specification via the DNS (SVCB and HTTPS Resource Records)" RFC 9460 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9460>
10.17487/RFC9460
.

E. Nygren "Service Binding and Parameter

, November 2023,

, and

,

,

Nottingham, M. "Well-Known Uniform Resource Identifiers (URIs)" RFC 8615

,

,

,

DOI 10.17487/RFC8615

, May 2019,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8615>

.

9.2.  Informative References

Pauly & Reddy.K

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9540

Oblivious Services in SVCB

February 2024

[CONSISTENCY]

Davidson, A. Finkel, M. Thomson, M.

,

,

, and

C. A. Wood "Key Consistency and

,

,

Discovery" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-privacypass-key-
consistency-01
privacypass-key-consistency-01>

,
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-

, 10 July 2023,

.

[DNSSEC]

,

Arends, R. Austein, R. Larson, M. Massey, D.
,
,
Introduction and Requirements" RFC 4033 DOI 10.17487/RFC4033
,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4033>

, and

.

S. Rose "DNS Security

,

, March 2005,

Authors' Addresses

Tommy Pauly
Apple Inc.
Email:

 tpauly@apple.com

Tirumaleswar Reddy.K
Nokia
Email:

 kondtir@gmail.com

Pauly & Reddy.K

Standards Track

Page 10

