Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9272
8401, 8444
Standards Track
September 2022
2070-1721
Z. Zhang
Juniper Networks

A. Przygienda
Juniper Networks

A. Gulko
Edward Jones Wealth Management

A. Dolganow
Individual

H. Bidgoli
Nokia

IJ. Wijnands
Individual

RFC 9272
Underlay Path Calculation Algorithm and
Constraints for Bit Index Explicit Replication (BIER)

Abstract

This document specifies general rules for the interaction between the BIER Algorithm (BAR) and
the IGP Algorithm (IPA) used for underlay path calculation within the Bit Index Explicit
Replication (BIER) architecture. The semantics defined in this document update RFC 8401 and
RFC 8444. This document also updates the "BIER Algorithm" registry established in RFC 8401.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9272
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Zhang, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9272

BAR and IPA Interaction

September 2022

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

2.  Updated Definitions for IPA and BAR Fields

3.  General Rules for the BAR and IPA Interaction

3.1.  When BAR Is Not Used

3.2.  Exceptions or Extensions to the General Rules

4.  Examples

5.  IANA Considerations

6.  Security Considerations

7.  Normative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

In the Bit Index Explicit Replication (BIER) architecture
encapsulation header are forwarded to the neighbors on the underlay paths towards Bit-
Forwarding Egress Routers (BFERs) that are represented by bits set in the BIER header's
BitString. The paths are calculated in the underlay topology for each sub-domain following a
calculation algorithm specific to the sub-domain. The topology or algorithm may or may not be
congruent with unicast. The algorithm could be a BIER-specific algorithm or could be a generic
IGP one, e.g., Shortest Path First (SPF).

, packets with a BIER

[RFC8279]

 and

[RFC8401]

In
, an 8-bit BAR (BIER Algorithm) field and 8-bit IPA (IGP Algorithm)
field are defined to signal the BIER-specific algorithm and generic IGP Algorithm, respectively,
and only value 0 is allowed for both fields in those two documents.

[RFC8444]

Zhang, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9272

BAR and IPA Interaction

September 2022

This document specifies general rules for the interaction between the BIER Algorithm (BAR) and
the IGP Algorithm (IPA) used for underlay path calculation when other BAR and/or IPA values are
used. The semantics defined in this document update
also updates the "BIER Algorithm" registry defined in
Use" range to "Private or Experimental Use".

 and
. This document
 by renaming the "Experimental

[RFC8401]
[RFC8401]

[RFC8444]

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Updated Definitions for IPA and BAR Fields

The definitions for the IPA and BAR fields in
are updated as follows.

Section 6.1 of [RFC8401]

 and

Section 2.1 of [RFC8444]

IPA:

IGP Algorithm. Specifies a generic Routing Algorithm and related Routing Constraints to
calculate underlay paths to reach other Bit-Forwarding Routers (BFRs). Values are from the
"IGP Algorithm Types" registry. One octet.

BAR:

BIER Algorithm. Specifies a BIER-specific Algorithm and BIER-specific Constraints used to

either modify, enhance, or replace the calculation of underlay paths to reach other BFRs as
defined by the IPA value. Values are allocated from the "BIER Algorithm" registry. One octet.

When a BAR value is defined, the corresponding BIER-specific Algorithm (BA) and BIER-
specific Constraint (BC) semantics
SHOULD
BIER IPA, its Routing Algorithm (RA) and Routing Constraint (RC) semantics
specified. If any of these semantics is not specified, it
algorithm or constraint. For example, the IGP Algorithm 0 defined in
having a NULL RC, i.e., no constraints (see Section 3).

 be
 be interpreted as the "NULL"
[RFC8665]

 be specified. For an IGP Algorithm to be used as a

 is treated as

SHOULD

MUST

If a specification is not available for a specific BAR value, its value
or Experimental Use range of the registry.

MUST

 be from the Private

3.  General Rules for the BAR and IPA Interaction

For a particular sub-domain, all BFRs
 be provisioned with and signal the same BAR and IPA
values. If a BFR discovers another BFR advertising a different BAR or IPA value for a sub-domain,
it
way of handling incapable routers is documented in
methods may be defined in the future.)

 treat the advertising router as incapable of supporting BIER for that sub-domain. (One

Section 6.9 of [RFC8279]

, and additional

MUST

MUST

Zhang, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9272

BAR and IPA Interaction

September 2022

For a particular topology X that a sub-domain is associated with, a router
underlay paths according to its BAR and IPA values in the following way:

MUST

 calculate the

1.

Apply the BIER constraints, resulting in BC(X). If BC is NULL, then BC(X) is X itself.

2.

Apply the routing constraints, resulting in RC(BC(X)). If RC is NULL, then RC(BC(X)) is BC(X).

3.

Select the algorithm AG as follows:
a.
If BA is NULL, AG is set to RA.

b.

If BA is not NULL, AG is set to BA.

4.

Run AG on RC(BC(X)).

It's possible that the resulting AG is not applicable to BIER. In that case, no BIER paths will be
calculated, and this is a network design issue that an operator needs to avoid when choosing the
BAR or IPA.

3.1.  When BAR Is Not Used

BAR value 0 is defined as "No BIER-specific algorithm is used"
NULL BA and BC. Following the rules defined above, the IPA value alone identifies the calculation
algorithm and constraints to be used for a particular sub-domain.

. This value indicates

[RFC8401]

3.2.  Exceptions or Extensions to the General Rules

Exceptions or extensions to the above general rules may be specified in the future for specific
BAR and/or IPA values. When that happens, compatibility with defined BAR and/or IPA values
and semantics need to be specified.

4.  Examples

As an example, one may define a new BAR with a BIER-specific constraint of "excluding BIER-
incapable routers". No BIER-specific algorithm is specified, and the BIER-specific constraint can
go with any IPA, i.e., any RC defined by the IPA is augmented with "excluding BIER-incapable
routers". (Routers that do not support BIER are not considered when applying the IGP
Algorithm.)

If the BC and RC happen to conflict and lead to an empty topology, then no BIER forwarding path
will be found. For example, the BC could be "exclude BIER-incapable routers", and the RC could
be "include green links only". If all the green links are associated with BIER-incapable routers, it
results in an empty topology. This is a network design issue that an operator needs to avoid when
choosing the BAR or IPA.

In another example, a BAR value can be specified to use the Steiner tree algorithm and used
together with IPA 0 (which uses an SPF algorithm). According to the general rules, the BIER-
specific algorithm takes precedence so SPF is not used.

Zhang, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9272

BAR and IPA Interaction

September 2022

5.  IANA Considerations

The "BIER Algorithm" registry has been updated as follows:

1.

The "Experimental Use" range has been renamed "Private or Experimental Use".

2.

This document has been added as a reference both for the registry itself and for values
240-254 in the registry.

6.  Security Considerations

This document specifies general rules for the interaction between the BIER Algorithm (BAR) and
the IGP Algorithm (IPA) used for underlay path calculation. It does not change the security
aspects as discussed in

[RFC8279] [RFC8401]
,

[RFC8444]
.

, and

7.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8279]

[RFC8401]

[RFC8444]

[RFC8665]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Wijnands, IJ., Ed. Rosen, E., Ed. Dolganow, A. Przygienda, T.
"Multicast Using Bit Index Explicit Replication (BIER)" RFC 8279 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8279

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8279>

, November 2017,

, and
,

S. Aldrin

,

,

,

,

.

,

Ginsberg, L., Ed. Przygienda, T. Aldrin, S.
Replication (BIER) Support via IS-IS" RFC 8401 DOI 10.17487/RFC8401
2018,

Z. Zhang "Bit Index Explicit
, and
,
, June
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8401>
.

,

,

,

,

Psenak, P., Ed. Kumar, N. Wijnands, IJ. Dolganow, A. Przygienda, T. Zhang, J.
,
,
,
and
,
S. Aldrin "OSPFv2 Extensions for Bit Index Explicit Replication (BIER)" RFC
8444 DOI 10.17487/RFC8444
,
rfc8444>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, November 2018,

,

,

,

.

,

Psenak, P., Ed. Previdi, S., Ed. Filsfils, C. Gredler, H. Shakir, R. Henderickx, W.
,
,
and
10.17487/RFC8665

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8665>

J. Tantsura "OSPF Extensions for Segment Routing" RFC 8665 DOI

, December 2019,

,

,

,

,

,

.

Zhang, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9272

BAR and IPA Interaction

September 2022

Acknowledgements

The authors thank
and comments. In particular, the BC/BA/RC/RA representation for the interaction rules is based
on Alia's write-up.

Alia Atlas Eric Rosen Senthil Dhanaraj

 and many others for their suggestions

,

,

Authors' Addresses

Zhaohui Zhang
Juniper Networks
Email:

 zzhang@juniper.net

Antoni Przygienda
Juniper Networks
Email:

 prz@juniper.net

Andrew Dolganow
Individual
Email:

 adolgano@gmail.com

Hooman Bidgoli
Nokia
Email:

 hooman.bidgoli@nokia.com

IJsbrand Wijnands
Individual
Email:

 ice@braindump.be

Arkadiy Gulko
Edward Jones Wealth Management
Email:

 arkadiy.gulko@edwardjones.com

Zhang, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

