Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9630
Standards Track
August 2024
2070-1721
H. Song
Futurewei Technologies

M. McBride
Futurewei Technologies

H. Asaeda
NICT

T. Zhou
Huawei Technologies

G. Mirsky
Ericsson

G. Mishra
Verizon Inc.

RFC 9630
Multicast On-Path Telemetry Using In Situ
Operations, Administration, and Maintenance
(IOAM)

Abstract

This document specifies two solutions to meet the requirements of on-path telemetry for
multicast traffic using IOAM. While IOAM is advantageous for multicast traffic telemetry, some
unique challenges are present. This document provides the solutions based on the IOAM trace
option and direct export option to support the telemetry data correlation and the multicast tree
reconstruction without incurring data redundancy.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9630
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Song, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9630

Multicast Telemetry

August 2024

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

2.  Requirements for Multicast Traffic Telemetry

3.  Issues of Existing Techniques

4.  Modifications and Extensions Based on Existing Solutions

4.1.  Per-Hop Postcard Using IOAM DEX

4.2.  Per-Section Postcard for IOAM Trace

5.  Application Considerations for Multicast Protocols

5.1.  Mtrace Version 2

5.2.  Application in PIM

5.3.  Application of MVPN PMSI Tunnel Attribute

6.  Security Considerations

7.  IANA Considerations

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

8.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

2

3

4

4

5

5

7

8

8

8

8

9

9

9

9

10

11

11

IP multicast has had many useful applications for several decades.
LEARNED]
of the multicast routing protocols in use with various applications. We will mention of few of

 provides a thorough historical perspective about the design and deployment of many

[MULTICAST-LESSONS-

Song, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9630

Multicast Telemetry

August 2024

these throughout this document and in the Application Considerations section (Section 5). IP
multicast has been used by residential broadband customers across operator networks, private
MPLS customers, and internal customers within corporate intranets. IP multicast has provided
real-time interactive online meetings or podcasts, IPTV, and financial markets' real-time data, all
of which rely on UDP's unreliable transport. End-to-end QoS, therefore, should be a critical
component of multicast deployments in order to provide a good end-user experience within a
specific operational domain. In multicast real-time media streaming, if a single packet is lost
within a keyframe and cannot be recovered using forward error correction, many receivers will
be unable to decode subsequent frames within the Group of Pictures (GoP), which results in
video freezes or black pictures until another keyframe is delivered. Unexpectedly long delays in
delivery of packets can cause timeouts with similar results. Multicast packet loss and delays can
therefore affect application performance and the user experience within a domain.

[RFC9197]

, IOAM Direct Export (DEX)

It is essential to monitor the performance of multicast traffic. New on-path telemetry techniques,
such as IOAM
, IOAM Postcard-Based Telemetry -
Marking (PBT-M)
complement existing active OAM performance monitoring methods like ICMP ping
However, multicast traffic's unique characteristics present challenges in applying these
techniques efficiently.

[RFC9326]
, and Hybrid Two-Step (HTS)

[HYBRID-TWO-STEP]
,
[RFC0792]
.

[POSTCARD-TELEMETRY]

[RFC7761]

The IP multicast packet data for a particular (S,G) state remains identical across different
branches to multiple receivers
each replicated packet retains telemetry data for its entire forwarding path. This results in
redundant data collection for common path segments, unnecessarily consuming extra network
bandwidth. For large multicast trees, this redundancy is substantial. Using solutions like IOAM
DEX could be more efficient by eliminating data redundancy, but IOAM DEX lacks a branch
identifier, complicating telemetry data correlation and multicast tree reconstruction.

. When IOAM trace data is added to multicast packets,

This document provides two solutions to the IOAM data-redundancy problem based on the IOAM
standards. The requirements for multicast traffic telemetry are discussed along with the issues of
the existing on-path telemetry techniques. We propose modifications and extensions to make
these techniques adapt to multicast in order for the original multicast tree to be correctly
reconstructed while eliminating redundant data. This document does not cover the operational
considerations such as how to enable the telemetry on a subset of the traffic to avoid overloading
the network or the data collector.

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

Song, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9630

Multicast Telemetry

August 2024

2.  Requirements for Multicast Traffic Telemetry

Multicast traffic is forwarded through a multicast tree. With PIM
Multipoint (P2MP), the forwarding tree is established and maintained by the multicast routing
protocol.

 and Point-to-

[RFC7761]

The requirements for multicast traffic telemetry that are addressed by the solutions in this
document are:

•

Reconstruct and visualize the multicast tree through data-plane monitoring.

•

Gather the multicast packet delay and jitter performance on each path.

•

Find the multicast packet-drop location and reason.

In order to meet all of these requirements, we need the ability to directly monitor the multicast
traffic and derive data from the multicast packets. The conventional OAM mechanisms, such as
multicast ping
, are not sufficient to meet all of
, and RTCP
these requirements. The telemetry methods in this document meet these requirements by
providing granular hop-by-hop network monitoring along with the reduction of data
redundancy.

[RFC6450]

[RFC3605]

[RFC8487]

, trace

3.  Issues of Existing Techniques

On-path telemetry techniques that directly retrieve data from multicast traffic's live network
experience are ideal for addressing the aforementioned requirements. The representative
[RFC9197]
, and PBT-M
techniques include IOAM Trace option
[POSTCARD-TELEMETRY]
applying these techniques.

. However, unlike unicast, multicast poses some unique challenges to

, IOAM DEX option

[RFC9326]

Multicast packets are replicated at each branch fork node in the corresponding multicast tree.
Therefore, there are multiple copies of the original multicast packet in the network.

When the IOAM trace option is utilized for on-path data collection, partial trace data is replicated
into the packet copy for each branch of the multicast tree. Consequently, at the leaves of the
multicast tree, each copy of the multicast packet contains a complete trace. This results in data
redundancy, as most of the data (except from the final leaf branch) appears in multiple copies,
where only one is sufficient. This redundancy introduces unnecessary header overhead, wastes
network bandwidth, and complicates data processing. The larger the multicast tree or the longer
the multicast path, the more severe the redundancy problem becomes.

The postcard-based solutions (e.g., IOAM DEX) can eliminate data redundancy because each node
on the multicast tree sends a postcard with only local data. However, these methods cannot
accurately track and correlate the tree branches due to the absence of branching information.
For instance, in the multicast tree shown in Figure 1, Node B has two branches, one to Node C
and the other to node D; further, Node C leads to Node E, and Node D leads to Node F (not
shown). When applying postcard-based methods, it is impossible to determine whether Node E is

Song, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9630

Multicast Telemetry

August 2024

the next hop of Node C or Node D from the received postcards alone, unless one correlates the
exporting nodes with knowledge about the tree collected by other means (e.g., mtrace). Such
correlation is undesirable because it introduces extra work and complexity.

The fundamental reason for this problem is that there is not an identifier (either implicit or
explicit) to correlate the data on each branch.

4.  Modifications and Extensions Based on Existing Solutions

We provide two solutions to address the above issues. One is based on IOAM DEX and requires
an extension to the DEX Option-Type header. The second solution combines the IOAM trace
option and postcards for redundancy removal.

4.1.  Per-Hop Postcard Using IOAM DEX

One way to mitigate the postcard-based telemetry's tree-tracking weakness is to augment it with
a branch identifier field. This works for the IOAM DEX option because the DEX Option-Type
header can be used to hold the branch identifier. To make the branch identifier globally unique,
the Branching Node ID plus an index is used. For example, as shown in Figure 1, Node B has two
branches: one to Node C and the other to Node D. Node B may use [B, 0] as the branch identifier
for the branch to C, and [B, 1] for the branch to D. The identifier is carried with the multicast
packet until the next branch fork node. Each node
received IOAM DEX header in the postcards it sends. The branch identifier, along with the other
fields such as Flow ID and Sequence Number, is sufficient for the data collector to reconstruct the
topology of the multicast tree.

 export the branch identifier in the

MUST

Figure 1 shows an example of this solution. "P" stands for the postcard packet. The square
brackets contains the branch identifier. The curly braces contain the telemetry data about a
specific node.

P:[A,0]{A}  P:[A,0]{B} P:[B,1]{D}  P:[B,0]{C}   P:[B,0]{E}
     ^            ^          ^        ^           ^
     :            :          :        :           :
     :            :          :        :           :
     :            :          :      +-:-+       +-:-+
     :            :          :      |   |       |   |
     :            :      +---:----->| C |------>| E |-...
   +-:-+        +-:-+    |   :      |   |       |   |
   |   |        |   |----+   :      +---+       +---+
   | A |------->| B |        :
   |   |        |   |--+   +-:-+
   +---+        +---+  |   |   |
                       +-->| D |--...
                           |   |
                           +---+

Figure 1: Per-Hop Postcard

Song, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9630

Multicast Telemetry

August 2024

Each branch fork node needs to generate a unique branch identifier (i.e., Multicast Branch ID) for
each branch in its multicast tree instance and include it in the IOAM DEX Option-Type header.
The Multicast Branch ID remains unchanged until the next branch fork node. The Multicast
Branch ID contains two parts: the Branching Node ID and an Interface Index.

Conforming to the node ID specification in IOAM
, the Branching Node ID is a 3-octet
unsigned integer. The Interface Index is a two-octet unsigned integer. As shown in Figure 2, the
Multicast Branch ID consumes 8 octets in total. The three unused octets
otherwise, the header is considered malformed and the packet

MUST
 be dropped.

 be set to 0;

[RFC9197]

MUST

  0                   1                   2                   3
  0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |       Branching Node ID                       |     unused    |
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |       Interface Index         |           unused              |
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 2: Multicast Branch ID Format

Figure 3 shows that the Multicast Branch ID is carried as an optional field after the Flow ID and
Sequence Number optional fields in the IOAM DEX option header. Two bits "N" and "I" (i.e., the
third and fourth bits in the Extension-Flags field) are reserved to indicate the presence of the
optional Multicast Branch ID field. "N" stands for the Branching Node ID, and "I" stands for the
Interface Index. If "N" and "I" are both set to 1, the optional Multicast Branch ID field is present.
[RFC9326]
Two Extension-Flag bits are used because
 specifies that each extension flag only
indicates the presence of a 4-octet optional data field, while we need more than 4 octets to
encode the Multicast Branch ID. The two flag bits
header is considered malformed and the packet

 be both set or cleared; otherwise, the

 be dropped.

MUST

MUST

  0                   1                   2                   3
  0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |        Namespace-ID           |     Flags     |F|S|N|I|E-Flags|
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |               IOAM-Trace-Type                 |   Reserved    |
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |                         Flow ID (optional)                    |
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |                     Sequence Number (optional)                |
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |          Multicast Branch ID (as shown in Figure 2)           |
 |                            (optional)                         |
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 3: Carrying the Multicast Branch ID in the IOAM DEX Option-Type Header

Song, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9630

Multicast Telemetry

August 2024

Once a node gets the branch ID information from the upstream node, it
information in its telemetry data export postcards so the original multicast tree can be correctly
reconstructed based on the postcards.

 carry this

MUST

4.2.  Per-Section Postcard for IOAM Trace

[RFC9197]

[IFIT-FRAMEWORK]

 and the postcard-based

. To avoid data redundancy, at each branch fork node, the trace

The second solution is a combination of the IOAM trace option
telemetry
data accumulated up to this node is exported by a postcard before the packet is replicated. In this
solution, each branch also needs to maintain some identifier to help correlate the postcards for
each tree section. The natural way to accomplish this is to simply carry the branch fork node's
data (including its ID) in the trace of each branch. This is also necessary because each replicated
multicast packet can have different telemetry data pertaining to this particular copy (e.g., node
delay, egress timestamp, and egress interface). As a consequence, the local data exported by each
branch fork node can only contain the common data shared by all the replicated packets (e.g.,
ingress interface and ingress timestamp).

Figure 4 shows an example in a segment of a multicast tree. Node B and D are two branch fork
nodes, and they will export a postcard covering the trace data for the previous section. The end
node of each path will also need to export the data of the last section as a postcard.

             P:{A,B'}            P:{B1,C,D'}
                ^                     ^
                :                     :
                :                     :
                :                     :    {D1}
                :                     :    +--...
                :        +---+      +---+  |
                :   {B1} |   |{B1,C}|   |--+ {D2}
                :    +-->| C |----->| D |-----...
    +---+     +---+  |   |   |      |   |--+
    |   | {A} |   |--+   +---+      +---+  |
    | A |---->| B |                        +--...
    |   |     |   |--+   +---+             {D3}
    +---+     +---+  |   |   |{B2,E}
                     +-->| E |--...
                    {B2} |   |
                         +---+

Figure 4: Per-Section Postcard

There is no need to modify the IOAM trace option header format as specified in
. We
just need to configure the branch fork nodes, as well as the leaf nodes, to export the postcards
that contain the trace data collected so far and refresh the IOAM header and data in the packet
(e.g., clear the node data list to all zeros and reset the RemainingLen field to the initial value).

[RFC9197]

Song, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9630

Multicast Telemetry

August 2024

5.  Application Considerations for Multicast Protocols

5.1.  Mtrace Version 2

[RFC8487]

 is a protocol that allows the tracing of an IP multicast

Mtrace version 2 (Mtrace2)
routing path. Mtrace2 provides additional information such as the packet rates and losses, as
well as other diagnostic information. Unlike unicast traceroute, Mtrace2 traces the path that the
tree-building messages follow from the receiver to the source. An Mtrace2 client sends an
Mtrace2 Query to a Last-Hop Router (LHR), and the LHR forwards the packet as an Mtrace2
Request towards the source or a Rendezvous Point (RP) after appending a response block. Each
router along the path proceeds with the same operations. When the First-Hop Router (FHR)
receives the Request packet, it appends its own response block, turns the Request packet into a
Reply, and unicasts the Reply back to the Mtrace2 client.

New on-path telemetry techniques will enhance Mtrace2, and other existing OAM solutions, with
more granular and real-time network status data through direct measurements. There are
various multicast protocols that are used to forward the multicast data. Each will require its own
unique on-path telemetry solution. Mtrace2 doesn't integrate with IOAM directly, but network
management systems may use Mtrace2 to learn about routers of interest.

5.2.  Application in PIM

[RFC7761]

 is the most widely used multicast routing protocol

PIM - Sparse Mode (PIM-SM)
deployed today. PIM - Source-Specific Multicast (PIM-SSM), however, is the preferred method due
to its simplicity and removal of network source discovery complexity. With PIM, control plane
state is established in the network in order to forward multicast UDP data packets. PIM utilizes
network-based source discovery. PIM-SSM, however, utilizes application-based source discovery.
IP multicast packets fall within the range of 224.0.0.0 through 239.255.255.255 for IPv4 and
ff00::/8 for IPv6. The telemetry solution will need to work within these IP address ranges and
provide telemetry data for this UDP traffic.

A proposed solution for encapsulating the telemetry instruction header and metadata in IPv6
packets is described in

[RFC9486]
.

5.3.  Application of MVPN PMSI Tunnel Attribute

IOAM, and the recommendations of this document, are equally applicable to multicast MPLS
. Multipoint Label Distribution Protocol (mLDP),
forwarded packets as described in
P2MP RSVP-TE, Ingress Replication (IR), and PIM Multicast Distribution Tree (MDT) SAFI with
GRE Transport are all commonly used within a Multicast VPN (MVPN) environment utilizing
 and BGP encoding and
MVPN procedures such as multicast in MPLS/BGP IP VPNs
[RFC6514]
procedures for multicast in MPLS/BGP IP VPNs
multipoint-to-multipoint (MP2MP) label switched paths (LSPs)

[RFC6513]
. mLDP LDP extensions for P2MP and
 provide extensions to

[RFC6514]

[RFC6388]

Song, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9630

Multicast Telemetry

August 2024

LDP to establish point-to-multipoint (P2MP) and MP2MP LSPs in MPLS networks. The telemetry
solution will need to be able to follow these P2MP and MP2MP paths. The telemetry instruction
header and data should be encapsulated into MPLS packets on P2MP and MP2MP paths.

6.  Security Considerations

[RFC9197]

 and the IOAM DEX option

The schemes discussed in this document share the same security considerations for the IOAM
trace option
built-in nature for packet amplification, the possible amplification risk for the DEX-based scheme
is greater than the case of unicast. Hence, stricter mechanisms for protections need to be applied.
In addition to selecting packets to enable DEX and to limit the exported traffic rate, we can also
allow only a subset of the nodes in a multicast tree to process the option and export the data (e.g.,
only the branching nodes in the multicast tree are configured to process the option).

. In particular, since multicast has a

[RFC9326]

7.  IANA Considerations

IANA has registered two Extension-Flags, as described in Section 4.1, in the "IOAM DEX
Extension-Flags" registry.

Bit Description

Reference

2

3

Multicast Branching Node ID

This RFC

Multicast Branching Interface Index

This RFC

Table 1: IOAM DEX Extension-Flags

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC6388]

[RFC6513]

[RFC6514]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Wijnands, IJ., Ed. Minei, I., Ed. Kompella, K.
Protocol Extensions for Point-to-Multipoint and Multipoint-to-Multipoint Label
Switched Paths" RFC 6388 DOI 10.17487/RFC6388
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6388>

B. Thomas "Label Distribution

, November 2011,

<https://

, and

.

,

,

,

 and

Rosen, E., Ed.
DOI 10.17487/RFC6513
rfc6513>

.

R. Aggarwal, Ed. "Multicast in MPLS/BGP IP VPNs" RFC 6513

,

,

,

, February 2012,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

Aggarwal, R. Rosen, E. Morin, T.
Procedures for Multicast in MPLS/BGP IP VPNs" RFC 6514 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6514

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6514>

Y. Rekhter "BGP Encodings and

, February 2012,

, and

,
,

,

,

.

Song, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9630

Multicast Telemetry

August 2024

[RFC7761]

[RFC8174]

[RFC9197]

[RFC9326]

,

,

,

Fenner, B. Handley, M. Holbrook, H. Kouvelas, I. Parekh, R. Zhang, Z.
,
Zheng "Protocol Independent Multicast - Sparse Mode (PIM-SM): Protocol
Specification (Revised)" STD 83 RFC 7761 DOI 10.17487/RFC7761
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7761>

,
.

,

,

,

, March 2016,

, and

L.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Brockners, F., Ed. Bhandari, S., Ed.
,
Operations, Administration, and Maintenance (IOAM)" RFC 9197 DOI 10.17487/
RFC9197

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9197>

T. Mizrahi, Ed. "Data Fields for In Situ

, May 2022,

, and

,
,

,

.

,

,

Song, H. Gafni, B. Brockners, F. Bhandari, S.
Operations, Administration, and Maintenance (IOAM) Direct Exporting" RFC
9326 DOI 10.17487/RFC9326
,
rfc9326>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

T. Mizrahi "In Situ

, November 2022,

, and

,

,

,

.

8.2.  Informative References

[HYBRID-TWO-STEP]

Mirsky, G. Lingqiang, W. Zhui, G. Song, H.

,

,

, and

P. Thubert "Hybrid Two-

,

Step Performance Measurement Method" Work in Progress Internet-Draft,
draft-ietf-ippm-hybrid-two-step-01
html/draft-ietf-ippm-hybrid-two-step-01>

, 5 July 2024,
.

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/

,

,
,

[IFIT-FRAMEWORK]

Song, H. Qin, F. Chen, H. Jin, J.
,

,

,

Information Telemetry" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-song-opsawg-
ifit-framework-21
song-opsawg-ifit-framework-21>

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-

, 23 October 2023,

,

.

J. Shin "Framework for In-situ Flow
, and
,

,

[MULTICAST-LESSONS-LEARNED]

,

Farinacci, D. Giuliano, L. McBride, M.
"Multicast Lessons Learned from Decades of Deployment Experience" Work in
Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-pim-multicast-lessons-learned-04
2024,
learned-04>

, 22 July
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-pim-multicast-lessons-

N. Warnke
,

, and

,

,

,

.

[POSTCARD-TELEMETRY]

Song, H. Mirsky, G. Zhou, T. Li, Z. Graf, T. Mishra, G. Shin, J.

,

,

,

,

,

,

, and

,

,

K. Lee "On-Path Telemetry using Packet Marking to Trigger Dedicated OAM
Packets" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-song-ippm-postcard-based-
telemetry-16
postcard-based-telemetry-16>

,
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-song-ippm-

, 2 June 2023,

.

[RFC0792]

[RFC3605]

Postel, J. "Internet Control Message Protocol" STD 5 RFC 792 DOI 10.17487/
,
RFC0792
, September 1981,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc792>

.

,

,

,

,

Huitema, C. "Real Time Control Protocol (RTCP) attribute in Session Description
Protocol (SDP)" RFC 3605 DOI 10.17487/RFC3605
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3605>

, October 2003,

<https://

.

,

Song, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9630

Multicast Telemetry

August 2024

[RFC6450]

[RFC8487]

[RFC9486]

Venaas, S. "Multicast Ping Protocol" RFC 6450 DOI 10.17487/RFC6450
December 2011,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6450>

,

,

.

,

Asaeda, H. Meyer, K.
,
, and
IP Multicast" RFC 8487 DOI 10.17487/RFC8487
,
editor.org/info/rfc8487>
.

W. Lee, Ed. "Mtrace Version 2: Traceroute Facility for
<https://www.rfc-
, October 2018,

,

,

 and

F. Brockners, Ed. "IPv6 Options for In Situ Operations,
Bhandari, S., Ed.
,
Administration, and Maintenance (IOAM)" RFC 9486 DOI 10.17487/RFC9486
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9486>
September 2023,

.

,

,

,

Acknowledgments

The authors would like to thank
Brockners Nils Warnke Jake Holland Dino Farinacci Henrik Nydell Zaheduzzaman Sarker
Toerless Eckert

Gunter Van de Velde Brett Sheffield Éric Vyncke Frank

 for their comments and suggestions.

,
,

,
,

,

,

,

,

, and

Authors' Addresses

Haoyu Song
Futurewei Technologies
2330 Central Expressway
Santa Clara CA
,
United States of America
Email:

hsong@futurewei.com

Mike McBride
Futurewei Technologies
2330 Central Expressway
Santa Clara CA
,
United States of America
Email:

mmcbride@futurewei.com

Greg Mirsky
Ericsson
United States of America
Email:

gregimirsky@gmail.com

Gyan Mishra
Verizon Inc.
United States of America
Email:

gyan.s.mishra@verizon.com

Song, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9630

Multicast Telemetry

August 2024

Hitoshi Asaeda
National Institute of Information and Communications
Technology
Japan
Email:

asaeda@nict.go.jp

Tianran Zhou
Huawei Technologies
Beijing
China
Email:

zhoutianran@huawei.com

Song, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

