Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9431
Standards Track
July 2023
2070-1721
C. Sengul
Brunel University

A. Kirby
Oxbotica

RFC 9431
Message Queuing Telemetry Transport (MQTT) and
Transport Layer Security (TLS) Profile of
Authentication and Authorization for Constrained
Environments (ACE) Framework

Abstract

This document specifies a profile for the Authentication and Authorization for Constrained
Environments (ACE) framework to enable authorization in a publish-subscribe messaging system
based on Message Queuing Telemetry Transport (MQTT). Proof-of-Possession keys, bound to
OAuth 2.0 access tokens, are used to authenticate and authorize MQTT Clients. The protocol relies
on TLS for confidentiality and MQTT server (Broker) authentication.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9431
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Sengul & Kirby

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9431

MQTT-TLS Profile of ACE

July 2023

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

1.2.  ACE-Related Terminology

1.3.  MQTT-Related Terminology

2.  Authorizing Connection Requests

2.1.  Client Token Request to the Authorization Server (AS)

2.2.  Client Connection Request to the Broker (C)

2.2.1.  Overview of Client-RS Authentication Methods over TLS and MQTT

2.2.2.  authz-info: The Authorization Information Topic

2.2.3.  Client Authentication over TLS

2.2.3.1.  Raw Public Key Mode

2.2.3.2.  Pre-Shared Key Mode

2.2.4.  Client Authentication over MQTT

2.2.4.1.  Transporting the Access Token inside the MQTT CONNECT

2.2.4.2.  Authentication Using the AUTH Property

2.2.5.  Broker Token Validation

2.3.  Token Scope and Authorization

2.4.  Broker Response to Client Connection Request

2.4.1.  Unauthorized Request and the Optional Authorization Server Discovery

2.4.2.  Authorization Success

3.  Authorizing PUBLISH and SUBSCRIBE Packets

3.1.  PUBLISH Packets from the Publisher Client to the Broker

3.2.  PUBLISH Packets from the Broker to the Subscriber Clients

3.3.  Authorizing SUBSCRIBE Packets

Sengul & Kirby

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9431

MQTT-TLS Profile of ACE

July 2023

4.  Token Expiration, Update, and Reauthentication

5.  Handling Disconnections and Retained Messages

6.  Reduced Protocol Interactions for MQTT v3.1.1

6.1.  Token Transport

6.2.  Handling Authorization Errors

7.  IANA Considerations

7.1.  TLS Exporter Labels Registration

7.2.  Media Type Registration

7.3.  ACE OAuth Profile Registration

7.4.  AIF

8.  Security Considerations

9.  Privacy Considerations

10. References

10.1.  Normative References

10.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Checklist for Profile Requirements

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

[RFC9200]

MQTT v5.0 OASIS Standard [MQTT-OASIS-Standard-v5]

This document specifies a profile for the ACE framework
. In this profile, Clients and
Servers (Brokers) use MQTT to exchange Application Messages. The protocol relies on TLS for
communication security between entities. The MQTT protocol interactions are described based
on the
deployments will continue to support MQTT v3.1.1 Clients, this document also describes a
reduced set of protocol interactions for the
v3.1.1]
. However, MQTT v5.0 is the
style authentication and authorization.

MQTT v3.1.1 OASIS Standard [MQTT-OASIS-Standard-
 version, as it works more naturally with ACE-

. Since it is expected that MQTT

RECOMMENDED

MQTT is a publish-subscribe protocol, and after connecting to the MQTT Server (Broker), a Client
can publish and subscribe to multiple topics. The Broker, which acts as the Resource Server (RS),
is responsible for distributing messages published by the publishers to their subscribers. In the
rest of the document, the terms "RS", "MQTT Server", and "Broker" are used interchangeably.

Sengul & Kirby

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9431

MQTT-TLS Profile of ACE

July 2023

Messages are published under a Topic Name, and subscribers subscribe to the Topic Names to
receive the corresponding messages. The Broker uses the Topic Name in a published message to
determine which subscribers to relay the messages to. In this document, topics (more specifically,
Topic Names) are treated as resources. The Clients are assumed to have identified the publish/
subscribe topics of interest out of band (topic discovery is not a feature of the MQTT protocol). A
Resource Owner can preconfigure policies at the Authorization Server (AS) that give Clients
publish or subscribe permissions to different topics.

Clients prove their permission to publish and subscribe to topics hosted on an MQTT Broker
using an access token that is bound to a Proof-of-Possession (PoP) key. This document describes
how to authorize the following exchanges between the Clients and the Broker.

•

connection requests from the Clients to the Broker

•

publish requests from the Clients to the Broker and from the Broker to the Clients

•

subscribe requests from the Clients to the Broker

Clients use the MQTT PUBLISH packet to publish to a topic. The mechanisms specified in this
document do not protect the Payload of the PUBLISH packet from the Broker. Hence, the Payload
is not signed or encrypted specifically for the subscribers. This functionality may be
implemented using the proposal outlined in the

ACE Pub-Sub Profile [ACE-PUBSUB-PROFILE]
.

 is

MAY

[RFC7519]

[RFC8446]

RECOMMENDED

. For JWTs, this document follows

. This document makes the same assumptions as
 regarding Client and RS registration with the AS for

, using the "application/ace+json" content type and, unless otherwise specified, JSON
 be an opaque reference to authorization information or a JSON Web

To provide communication confidentiality and Broker authentication to the MQTT Clients, TLS is
used, and TLS 1.3
Section 4 of the ACE framework [RFC9200]
setting up the keying material. While the Client-Broker exchanges are only over MQTT, the
required Client-AS and RS-AS interactions are described for HTTPS-based communication
[RFC9110]
encoding. The token
Token (JWT)
and the mechanisms for providing and verifying PoP are detailed in Section 2.2. The Client-AS
and RS-AS exchanges
Protocol (CoAP)
communication channels between Client-AS and RS-AS. To reduce the protocol memory and
bandwidth requirements, implementations
MAY
Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR) encoding
[RFC8392]
Semantics for CBOR Web Tokens (CWTs)" [RFC8747]
Encryption (JOSE), while a CWT uses CBOR Object Signing and Encryption (COSE)
security protection.

 also use protocols other than HTTP, e.g., Constrained Application
 or MQTT. It is recommended that TLS is used to secure these

, CBOR Web Tokens (CWTs)
"Proof-of-Possession Key

, and associated PoP semantics. For more information, see

. A JWT uses JSON Object Signing and

 also use the "application/ace+cbor" content type,

 for PoP semantics for JWTs,

MAY
[RFC7252]

[RFC8949]

[RFC7800]

[RFC9052]

 for

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

Sengul & Kirby

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9431

MQTT-TLS Profile of ACE

July 2023

1.2.  ACE-Related Terminology

Certain security-related terms, such as "authentication", "authorization", "data confidentiality",
[RFC4949]
.
"(data) integrity", "message authentication code" (MAC), and "verify", are taken from

The terminology for entities in the architecture is defined in OAuth 2.0
"Client" (C), "Resource Server" (RS), and "Authorization Server" (AS).

[RFC6749]

, such as

The term "resource" is used to refer to an MQTT Topic Name, which is defined in Section 1.3.
Hence, the "Resource Owner" is any entity that can authoritatively speak for the topic. This
document also defines a Client Authorization Server for Clients that are not able to support HTTP.

Client Authorization Server (CAS)

An entity that prepares and endorses authentication and authorization data for a Client
and communicates to the AS using HTTPS.

1.3.  MQTT-Related Terminology

The document describes message exchanges as MQTT protocol interactions. The Clients are
MQTT Clients, which connect to the Broker to publish and subscribe to Application Messages
(which are labeled with their topics). For additional information, please refer to the
OASIS Standard [MQTT-OASIS-Standard-v5] MQTT v3.1.1 OASIS Standard [MQTT-OASIS-
 or
Standard-v3.1.1]
.

MQTT v5.0

Broker

Client

The Server in MQTT. It acts as an intermediary between the Clients that publish
Application Messages and the Clients that made Subscriptions. The Broker acts as the
Resource Server for the Clients.

A device or program that uses MQTT.

Network Connection

A construct provided by the underlying transport protocol that is being used by MQTT. It
connects the Client to the Server. It provides the means to send an ordered, lossless
stream of bytes in both directions. This document uses TLS as the transport protocol.

Session

A stateful interaction between a Client and a Broker. Some Sessions last only as long as
the Network Connection; others can span multiple Network Connections.

Application Message

The data carried by the MQTT protocol. The data has an associated Quality-of-Service
(QoS) level and Topic Name.

Sengul & Kirby

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9431

MQTT-TLS Profile of ACE

July 2023

MQTT Control Packet

The MQTT protocol operates by exchanging a series of MQTT Control Packets. Each
packet is composed of a Fixed Header, a Variable Header (depending on the Control
Packet type), and a Payload.

UTF-8-encoded string

A string prefixed with a two-byte-length field that gives the number of bytes in a UTF-8-
encoded string itself. Unless stated otherwise, all UTF-8-encoded strings can have any
length in the range 0 to 65535 bytes.

Binary Data

Binary Data is represented by a two-byte-length field, which indicates the number of
data bytes, followed by that number of bytes. Thus, the length of Binary Data is limited to
the range of 0 to 65535 bytes.

Variable Byte Integer

A Variable Byte Integer is encoded using an encoding scheme that uses a single byte for
values up to 127. For larger values, the least significant seven bits of each byte encode
the data, and the most significant bit is used to indicate whether there are bytes
following in the representation. Thus, each byte encodes 128 values and a "continuation
bit". The maximum number of bytes in the Variable Byte Integer field is four.

QoS level

The level of assurance for the delivery of an Application Message. The QoS level can be
0-2, where 0 indicates "At most once delivery", 1 indicates "At least once delivery", and 2
indicates "Exactly once delivery".

Property

The last field of the Variable Header is a set of properties for several MQTT Control
Packets (e.g., CONNECT and CONNACK). A property consists of an Identifier that defines
its usage and data type, followed by a value. The Identifier is encoded as a Variable Byte
Integer. For example, the "Authentication Data" property uses the identifier 22.

Topic Name

The label attached to an Application Message, which is matched to a Subscription.

Subscription

A Subscription comprises a Topic Filter and a maximum QoS. A Subscription is
associated with a single Session.

Topic Filter

An expression that indicates interest in one or more Topic Names. Topic Filters may
include wildcards.

MQTT sends various Control Packets across a Network Connection. The following is not an
exhaustive list, and the Control Packets that are not relevant for authorization are not explained.
For instance, these include the PUBREL and PUBCOMP packets used in the 4-step handshake
required for QoS level 2.

Sengul & Kirby

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9431

MQTT-TLS Profile of ACE

July 2023

CONNECT

The Client requests to connect to the Broker. This is the first packet sent by a Client.

CONNACK

The Broker connection acknowledgment. CONNACK packets contain return codes that
indicate either a success or an error state in response to a Client's CONNECT packet.

AUTH

An AUTH Control Packet is sent from the Client to the Broker or from the Broker to the
Client as part of an extended authentication exchange. AUTH properties include the
Authentication Method and Authentication Data. The Authentication Method is set in the
CONNECT packet, and consequent AUTH packets follow the same Authentication
Method. The contents of the Authentication Data are defined by the Authentication
Method.

PUBLISH

Publish request sent from a publishing Client to the Broker or from the Broker to a
subscribing Client.

PUBACK

PUBREC

Response to a PUBLISH request with QoS level 1. PUBACK can be sent from the Broker to
a Client or from a Client to the Broker.

Response to a PUBLISH request with QoS level 2. PUBREC can be sent from the Broker to
a Client or from a Client to the Broker.

SUBSCRIBE

Subscribe request sent from a Client.

SUBACK

Subscribe acknowledgment from the Broker to the Client.

PINGREQ

A ping request sent from a Client to the Broker. It signals to the Broker that the Client is
alive and is used to confirm that the Broker is also alive. The "Keep Alive" period is set in
the CONNECT packet.

PINGRESP

Response sent by the Broker to the Client in response to PINGREQ. It indicates the Broker
is alive.

DISCONNECT

The DISCONNECT packet is the final MQTT Control Packet sent from the Client or the
Broker. It indicates the reason why the Network Connection is being closed. If the
Network Connection is closed without the Client first sending a DISCONNECT packet
with reason code 0x00 (Normal disconnection) and the MQTT Connection has a Will
Message, the Will Message is published.

Sengul & Kirby

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9431

Will

MQTT-TLS Profile of ACE

July 2023

If the Network Connection is not closed normally, the Broker sends a last Will Message
for the Client if the Client provided one in its CONNECT packet. Situations in which the
Will Message is published include, but are not limited to, the following:

•

an I/O error or network failure detected by the Broker,

•

the Client fails to communicate within the Keep Alive period,

•

the Client closes the Network Connection without first sending a DISCONNECT
packet with reason code 0x00 (Normal disconnection), and

•

the Broker closes the Network Connection without first receiving a DISCONNECT
packet with reason code 0x00 (Normal disconnection).

If the Will Flag is set in the CONNECT flags, then the Payload of the CONNECT packet
includes information about the Will. The information consists of the Will Properties, Will
Topic, and Will Payload fields.

2.  Authorizing Connection Requests

Section 5.8 of
. Steps (D) and (E) are optional and use the introspection endpoint

This section specifies how Client connections are authorized by the AS and verified by the MQTT
Broker. Figure 1 shows the basic protocol flows during connection setup. The token request and
response use the token endpoint at the AS, specified for HTTP-based interactions in
the ACE framework [RFC9200]
specified in
assumes that the Client and the Broker use HTTPS to communicate with the AS via these
endpoints. The Client and the Broker use MQTT to communicate between them. The C-AS and
Broker-AS communications
MQTT. Whatever protocol is used for the C-AS and Broker-AS communications
mutual authentication, confidentiality protection, and integrity protection.

 be implemented using protocols other than HTTPS, e.g., CoAP or

Section 5.9 of the ACE framework [RFC9200]

. The discussion in this document

 provide

MUST

MAY

If the Client is resource constrained or does not support HTTPS, a separate Client Authorization
Server may carry out the token request on behalf of the Client (Figure 1, steps (A) and (B)) and,
later, onboard the Client with the token. The interactions between a Client and its Client
Authorization Server for token onboarding and support for MQTT-based token requests at the AS
are out of the scope of this document.

Sengul & Kirby

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9431

MQTT-TLS Profile of ACE

July 2023

                              +---------------------+
                              | Client              |
                              |                     |
   +---(A) Token request------| Client -            |
   |                          | Authorization       |
   |   +-(B) Access token-----> Server Interface    |
   |   |                      |       (HTTPS)       |
   |   |                      |_____________________|
   |   |                      |                     |
+--v-------------+            |  Pub/Sub Interface  |
|  Authorization |            |   (MQTT over TLS)   |
|  Server        |            +----------------^----+
|________________|                 |           |
   |    ^                 (C) Connection   (F) Connection
   |    |                     request +        response
   |    |                     access token     |
   |    |                          |           |
   |    |                      +---v--------------+
   |    |                      |     Broker       |
   |    |                      |  (MQTT over TLS) |
   |    |                      |__________________|
   |    +(D) Introspection-----|                  |
   |         request (optional)| RS-AS interface  |
   |                           |     (HTTPS)      |
   +-(E) Introspection-------->|__________________|
         response (optional)

Figure 1: Connection Setup

2.1.  Client Token Request to the Authorization Server (AS)

The first step in the protocol flow (Figure 1, step (A)) is the token acquisition by the Client from
the AS. The Client and the AS
MUST
token from the AS, as described in
follows the procedures defined in
(RPKs)
content type of the request is set to "application/ace+json", and the AS uses JSON in the Payload of
its responses to the Client and the RS. As explained earlier, implementations
"application/ace+cbor" content type.

 perform mutual authentication. The Client requests an access
Section 5.8.1 of the ACE framework [RFC9200]
Section 3.2.1 of the DTLS profile [RFC9202]

. The document
 for raw public keys

 for pre-shared keys (PSKs). However, the

Section 3.3.1 of [RFC7250]

 also use the

[RFC7250]

) and in

MAY

On receipt of the token request, the AS verifies the request. If the AS successfully verifies the
access token request and authorizes the Client for the indicated audience (i.e., RS) and scopes
(i.e., publish/subscribe permissions over topics, as described in Section 2.3), the AS issues an
access token (Figure 1, step (B)).

The response includes the parameters described in
[RFC9200]
[RFC9202]
cases, if the response contains an "ace_profile" parameter, this parameter is set to "mqtt_tls". The
returned token is a Proof-of-Possession (PoP) token by default.

. For RPKs, the parameters are as described in
. For PSKs, the document follows

Section 3.3.1 of the DTLS profile [RFC9202]

Section 5.8.2 of the ACE framework

Section 3.2.1 of the DTLS profile

. In both

Sengul & Kirby

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9431

MQTT-TLS Profile of ACE

July 2023

[RFC7800]

This document follows
includes a "cnf" (confirmation) parameter in the PoP token to declare that the Client possesses a
particular key and the RS can cryptographically confirm that the Client has possession of that
key, as described in

 for PoP semantics for JWTs (CWTs

 also be used). The AS

[RFC9201]
.

MAY

Section 3.2.1 of the DTLS profile [RFC9202]

Note that the contents of the web tokens (including the "cnf" parameter) are to be consumed by
the RS and not the Client (the Client obtains the key information in a different manner). The RPK
case is handled as described in
. For the PSK case, the
referenced procedures apply, with the following exceptions to accommodate JWT and JOSE use.
In this case, the AS adds a "cnf" parameter to the Access Information carrying
(JWK) [RFC7517]
be used by the RS to determine the secret key it shares with the Client. The JWT is created as
explained in
[RFC7516]
MUST

a JSON Web Key
 object that contains either the symmetric key itself or a key identifier that can

. If a CWT/COSE is used, this information
 be encrypted using a "COSE_Encrypt0" structure.

a JSON Web Encryption (JWE)
 be inside the "COSE_Key" object and

Section 7 of [RFC7519]

, and the JWT

 include

MUST

MUST

The AS returns error responses for JSON-based interactions following
When CBOR is used, the interactions
the ACE framework [RFC9200]
.

MUST

 implement the procedure described in

Section 5.8.3 of

Section 5.2 of [RFC6749]
.

2.2.  Client Connection Request to the Broker (C)

2.2.1.  Overview of Client-RS Authentication Methods over TLS and MQTT

Unless the Client publishes and subscribes to only public topics, the Client and the Broker
perform mutual authentication. The Client
 authenticate to the Broker either over MQTT or
MUST
TLS before performing any other action. For MQTT, the options are "None" and "ace". For TLS, the
options are "Anon" for an anonymous client, and "Known(RPK/PSK)" for RPKs and PSKs,
respectively. The "None" and "Anon" options do not provide client authentication but can be used
either during authentication or in combination with authentication at the other layer. When the
Client uses TLS:Anon,MQTT:None, the Client can only publish or subscribe to public topics. Thus,
the client authentication procedures involve the following possible combinations:

MUST

TLS:Anon,MQTT:None:

This option is used only for the topics that do not require authorization, including the
"authz-info" topic. Publishing to the "authz-info" topic is described in Section 2.2.2.

TLS:Anon,MQTT:ace:

 be validated using one of
The token is transported inside the CONNECT packet and
the methods described in Section 2.2.2. This option also supports a tokenless connection
request for AS discovery. As per the
, a separate step is needed
to determine whether the discovered AS URI is authorized to act as an AS.

ACE framework [RFC9200]

MUST

TLS:Known(RPK/PSK),MQTT:none:

This specification supports client authentication with TLS with RPKs and PSKs, following
DTLS profile [RFC9202]
the procedures described in the
have published the token to the "authz-info" topic. For the PSK, the token

. For the RPK, the Client

MUST

MAY

 be

Sengul & Kirby

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9431

MQTT-TLS Profile of ACE

July 2023

published to the "authz-info" topic or
(e.g., an "identity" in the "identities" field in the Client's "pre_shared_key" extension in
TLS 1.3).

 be, alternatively, provided as a "PSK identity"

MAY

TLS:Known(RPK/PSK),MQTT:ace:
SHOULD NOT

This option
overwrites any permissions passed during the TLS authentication.

 be chosen as the token transported in the CONNECT packet and

RECOMMENDED

 that the Client implements TLS:Anon,MQTT:ace as the first choice when

It is
working with protected topics. However, MQTT v3.1.1 Clients that do not prefer to overload the
User Name and Password fields for ACE (as described in Section 6)
TLS:Known(RPK/PSK),MQTT:none and, consequently, TLS:Anon,MQTT:None to submit their token
to "authz-info".

 implement

MAY

 support TLS:Anon,MQTT:ace. To support Clients with different capabilities, the

The Broker
MUST
 provide multiple client authentication options, e.g., support
Broker
MAY
TLS:Known(RPK),MQTT:none and TLS:Anon,MQTT:None, to enable RPK-based client
authentication.

MUST

 authenticate the Broker during the TLS handshake. If the Client authentication

The Client
uses TLS:Known(RPK/PSK), then the Broker is authenticated using the respective method.
Otherwise, to authenticate the Broker, the Client
 validate a public key from an X.509
certificate or an RPK from the Broker against the "rs_cnf" parameter in the token response,
which contains information about the public key used by the RS to authenticate if the token type
is "pop" and asymmetric keys are used as defined in
thumbprint of the RS's X.509 certificate in the "rs_cnf" (thumbprint, as defined in
this case, the Client

 validate the RS certificate against this thumbprint.

 include the

[RFC9201]

[RFC9360]

. The AS

MUST

MUST

MAY

). In

2.2.2.  authz-info: The Authorization Information Topic

In the cases when the Client must transport the token to the Broker first, the Client connects to
the Broker to publish its token to the "authz-info" topic. The "authz-info" topic
published (i.e., the Clients are not allowed to subscribe to it). "authz-info" is not protected, and
hence, the Client uses the TLS:Anon,MQTT:None option over a TLS connection. After publishing
the token, the Client disconnects from the Broker and is expected to reconnect using client
authentication over TLS (i.e., TLS:Known(RPK/PSK),MQTT:none).

 only be

MUST

DTLS profile for ACE [RFC9202]

The Broker stores and indexes all tokens received to the "authz-info" topic in its key store (similar
to the
Section 5.10.1
of the ACE framework [RFC9200]
and any other token linked to the same key overwrites an existing token.

 and expects that the Broker stores only one token per PoP key,

). This profile follows the recommendation of

MUST

The Broker
the token is a reference), as described in Section 2.2.5. If the token is not valid, the Broker
discard the token.

 verify the validity of the token (i.e., through local validation or introspection if
MUST

Sengul & Kirby

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9431

MQTT-TLS Profile of ACE

July 2023

Depending on the QoS level of the PUBLISH packet, the Broker returns the error response as a
PUBACK, PUBREC, or DISCONNECT packet. If the QoS level is equal to 0, and the token is not valid,
or if the claims cannot be obtained in the case of an introspected token, the Broker
DISCONNECT packet with reason code 0x87 (Not authorized). If the PUBLISH Payload does not
 send a DISCONNECT with reason code 0x99 (Payload format
parse to a token, the Broker
invalid).

 send a

MUST

MUST

If the QoS level of the PUBLISH packet is greater than or equal to 1, and the token is not valid, or
 send reason
the claims cannot be obtained in the case of an introspected token, the Broker
code 0x87 (Not authorized) in the PUBACK or PUBREC. If the PUBLISH Payload does not parse to a
token, the PUBACK/PUBREC reason code is 0x99 (Payload format invalid).

MUST

When the Broker sends the "Not authorized" response, it must be noted that this corresponds to
the token being not valid and not that the actual PUBLISH packet was not authorized. Given that
the "authz-info" is a public topic, this response is not expected to cause confusion.

2.2.3.  Client Authentication over TLS

 and with pre-shared keys

, as the profile applies to

. When there are exceptions to the DTLS profile, these are explicitly

[RFC9430]

[RFC7250]

DTLS profile for ACE [RFC9202]

This document supports TLS with raw public keys (RPKs)
(PSKs). The TLS session setup follows the
TLS equally well
stated in the document. If TLS 1.2 is used,
constrained devices, alongside recommended cipher suites. Additionally, TLS 1.2
implementations
[TLS-bis]
implementations
Protocol Negotiation (ALPN)
of the protocol context as possible.

) to incorporate the handshake transcript into the main secret

 use the Server Name Indication (SNI)

[RFC7301]

[RFC6066]

[RFC7925]

SHOULD

MUST

 describes how TLS can be used for

 use the "Extended Main Secret" extension (terminology adopted from

 extensions so the TLS handshake authenticates as much

[RFC7627]

. TLS

 and Application-Layer

2.2.3.1.  Raw Public Key Mode

This document follows the procedures defined in
[RFC9202]
using the method specified in Section 2.2.2 before initiating the handshake.

 with the following exceptions. The Client

MUST

Section 3.2.2 of the DTLS profile for ACE

 upload the access token to the Broker

2.2.3.2.  Pre-Shared Key Mode

This document follows the procedures defined in
[RFC9202]
 with the following exceptions.

Section 3.3.2 of the DTLS profile for ACE

[RFC8446]
To use TLS 1.3 with pre-shared keys, the Client utilizes the PSK extension specified in
using the key conveyed in the "cnf" parameter of the AS response. The same key is bound to the
access token in the "cnf" claim. The Client can upload the token, as specified in Section 2.2.2,
before initiating the handshake. When using a previously uploaded token, the Client
indicate during the handshake which previously uploaded access token it intends to use. To do
so, it
"rs_cnf" claim in the token response from the AS and the key type "symmetric". This structure is

 create a "COSE_Key" or "JWK" structure with the "kid" that was conveyed in the

MUST

MUST

Sengul & Kirby

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9431

MQTT-TLS Profile of ACE

July 2023

then included as the only element in the "cnf" structure and the encoded value of that "cnf"
structure used as a PSK identity in TLS. As an alternative to the access token upload, the Client
can provide the most recent access token, JWT or CWT, as a PSK identity.

DTLS profile for ACE [RFC9202]

In contrast to the
TLS_PSK_WITH_AES_128_CCM_8 and TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_128_CCM_8. For TLS 1.2,
however, a client
[RFC8442]
recommended in

 support TLS_ECDHE_PSK_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256 for PSKs
, as

 and TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256 for RPKs

 (and adjusted to be a PSK cipher suite as appropriate).

 omit support for the cipher suites

[RFC9325]

[RFC8422]

, a Client

MUST

MAY

2.2.4.  Client Authentication over MQTT

2.2.4.1.  Transporting the Access Token inside the MQTT CONNECT

This section describes how the Client transports the token to the Broker inside the CONNECT
packet. If this method is used, the Client TLS connection is expected to be anonymous, and the
Broker is authenticated during the TLS connection setup. The approach described in this section
is similar to an earlier proposal by Fremantle, et al.

[Fremantle14]
.

After sending the CONNECT packet, the Client
MUST
the Broker. The only packets it is allowed to send are DISCONNECT or AUTH that are in response
to the Broker AUTH. Similarly, except for a DISCONNECT and AUTH response from the Client, the
Broker

 process any packets before sending a CONNACK packet.

 wait to receive the CONNACK packet from

MUST NOT

Figure 2 shows the structure of the MQTT CONNECT packet used in MQTT v5.0. A CONNECT
packet is composed of a Fixed Header, a Variable Header, and a Payload The Fixed Header
contains the Control Packet Type (CPT), Reserved, and Remaining Length fields. The Remaining
Length is a Variable Byte Integer that represents the number of bytes remaining within the
current Control Packet, including data in the Variable Header and the Payload. The Variable
Header contains the Protocol Name, Protocol Level, Connect flags, Keep Alive, and Properties
fields. The Connect flags in the Variable Header specify the properties of the MQTT Session. It
also indicates the presence or absence of some fields in the Payload. The Payload contains one or
more encoded fields, namely a unique Client Identifier for the Client, a Will Topic, Will Payload,
User Name, and Password. All but the Client Identifier can be omitted depending on the flags in
the Variable Header. The Client Identifier identifies the Client to the Broker and, therefore, is
unique for each Client. It must be noted that the Client Identifier is an unauthenticated identifier
used within the MQTT protocol and so is not bound to the access token.

Sengul & Kirby

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9431

MQTT-TLS Profile of ACE

July 2023

0             8             16
+---------------------------+
|Protocol name length = 4   |
+---------------------------+
|     'M'            'Q'    |
+---------------------------+
|     'T'            'T'    |
+---------------------------+
|Proto.level=5|Connect flags|
+---------------------------+
|        Keep alive         |
+---------------------------+
| CONNECT Properties Length |
|      (up to 4 bytes)      |
+---------------------------+
| ( ..Other properties..)   |
+---------------------------+
|  Authentication Method    |
|      (0x15)  |   Len      |
|      Len     |   'a'      |
|      'c'     |   'e'      |
+---------------------------+
|  Authentication Data      |
|     (0x16)   |    Len     |
|      Len     |   token    |
|  or token + PoP data      |
+---------------------------+

Figure 2: MQTT v5 CONNECT Variable Header with Authentication Method Property for ACE

The CONNECT flags are User Name, Password, Will Retain, Will QoS, Will Flag, Clean Start, and
 be set to use AUTH packets for authentication and
Reserved. Table 1 shows how the flags
authorization, i.e., the User Name Flag and Password Flag
MAY
option for MQTT v3.1.1 Clients, as described in Section 6.

 also support token transport using the User Name and Password to provide a security

 be set to 0. An MQTT v5.0 Broker

MUST

MUST

User Name
Flag

Password
Flag

Will
Retain

Will
QoS

Will
Flag

Clean
Start

Reserved

0

0

X

X X

X

X

0

Table 1: CONNECT Flags for AUTH

The Will Flag indicates that a Will Message needs to be sent. The Client
desired (marked as "X" in Table 1). If the Will Flag is set to 1, the Broker
token allows the publication of the Will Message (i.e., the Will Topic Filter is in the scope array).
The check is performed against the token scope described in Section 2.3. If the Will authorization
fails, the connection is refused, as described in Section 2.4.1. If the Broker accepts the connection
request, the Broker stores the Will Message and publishes it when the Network Connection is
closed according to Will QoS, Will Retain parameters, and MQTT Will management rules. To

 set the Will Flag as
 check that the

MUST

MAY

Sengul & Kirby

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9431

MQTT-TLS Profile of ACE

July 2023

avoid publishing the Will Messages in the case of temporary network disconnections, the Client
specifies a Will Delay Interval in the Will Properties. Section 5 explains how the Broker deals
with the retained messages in further detail.

 always start with a new Session. The Broker

In MQTT v5.0, the Client signals a new Session (i.e., that the Session does not continue an existing
Session) by setting the Clean Start flag to 1 in the CONNECT packet. In this profile, the Client
 also signal that it does not support the
SHOULD
continuation of an existing Session by setting the Session Expiry Interval to 0 in the CONNACK. If
the Broker starts a new Session, the Broker
CONNACK packet to signal this to the Client.

 set the Session Present flag to 0 in the

MUST

MAY

MAY

The Broker
 support continuing an existing Session, e.g., if the Broker requires it for QoS
reasons. In this case, if a CONNECT packet is received with Clean Start set to 0, and there is a
Session associated with the Client Identifier, the Broker
Client based on the state from the existing Session. In its response, the Broker
Session Present flag to 1 in the CONNACK packet to signal the continuation of an existing Session
to the Client. The Session State stored by the Client and the Broker is described in Section 5.

 resume communications with the

 set the

MUST

MUST

MUST

When reconnecting to a Broker that supports continuing existing Sessions, the Client
provide a token in addition to using the same Client Identifier and setting the Clean Start to 0.
The Broker
 still perform PoP validation on the provided token. If the token matches the
stored state, the Broker
introspection result. The Broker
MQTT packets that are pending transmission. When a Client connects with a long Session Expiry
Interval, the Broker may need to maintain the Client's MQTT Session State after it disconnects for
an extended period. Brokers

 skip introspecting a token-by-reference and use the stored

 also verify the Client is authorized to receive or send

 implement administrative policies to limit misuse.

SHOULD

MUST

MUST

 still

MAY

Note that, according to the MQTT standard, the Broker uses the Client Identifier to identify the
Session State. In the case of a Client Identifier collision, a Client may take over another Client's
Session. Given that the Broker
send or receive messages to its authorized topics. Therefore, while this issue is not expected to
affect security, it may affect QoS (i.e., PUBLISH or QoS messages saved for Client A may be
delivered to a Client B). In addition, if this Client Identifier represents a Client already connected
to the Broker, the Broker sends a DISCONNECT packet to the existing Client with reason code
0x8E (Session taken over) and closes the connection to the Client.

 associate the Client with a valid token, a Client will only

MUST

2.2.4.2.  Authentication Using the AUTH Property

Figure 2 shows the Authentication Method and Authentication Data fields when the client
authenticates using the AUTH property. The Client
property of a CONNECT packet by using the property identifier 21 (0x15). This is followed by a
UTF-8-encoded string containing the name of the Authentication Method, which
 be set to
"ace". If the Broker does not support this profile, it sends a CONNACK packet with reason code
0x8C (Bad authentication method).

 set the Authentication Method as a

MUST

MUST

Sengul & Kirby

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9431

MQTT-TLS Profile of ACE

July 2023

The Authentication Method is followed by the Authentication Data, which has a property
identifier 22 (0x16) and is Binary Data. Based on the Authentication Data, the Broker
support both options below:

MUST

•

proof of possession using a challenge from the TLS session

•

proof of possession via a Broker-generated challenge/response

2.2.4.2.1.  Proof of Possession Using a Challenge from the TLS Session

+-----------------------------------------------------------------+
|Authentication|Token Length|Token   |MAC or Signature            |
|Data Length   |            |        |(over TLS exporter content) |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------+

Figure 3: Authentication Data for PoP Based on TLS Exporter Content

For this option, the Authentication Data inside the Client's CONNECT packet
two-byte integer token length, the token, and the keyed message digest (MAC) or the Client
signature (as shown in Figure 3). The Proof-of-Possession key in the token is used to calculate the
keyed message digest (MAC) or the Client signature based on the content obtained from the TLS
Section 7.5 of [RFC8446]
exporter (
from the TLS session using the exporter label "EXPORTER-ACE-MQTT-Sign-Challenge", an empty
context, and a length of 32 bytes. The token is also validated, as described in Section 2.2.5, and
the Broker responds with a CONNACK packet with the appropriate response code. The Client
cannot reauthenticate using this method during the same TLS session (see Section 4).

 for TLS 1.3). This content is exported

 for TLS 1.2 and

 contain the

[RFC5705]

MUST

2.2.4.2.2.  Proof of Possession via Broker-generated Challenge/Response

+------------------------------------+
|Authentication|Token Length|Token   |
|Data Length   |            |        |
+------------------------------------+

Figure 4: Authentication Data to Initiate PoP Based on Challenge/Response

+--------------------------+
|Authentication|RS Nonce   |
|Data Length   |(8 bytes)  |
+--------------------------+

Figure 5: Authentication Data for Broker Challenge

For this option, the Broker follows a Broker-generated challenge/response protocol. If the
Authentication Data inside the Client's CONNECT contains only the two-byte integer token length
and the token (as shown in Figure 4), the Broker

 respond with an AUTH packet with the

MUST

Sengul & Kirby

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9431

MQTT-TLS Profile of ACE

July 2023

authenticated reason code set to 0x18 (Continue Authentication). The Broker also uses this
method if the Authentication Data does not contain a token, but the Broker has a token stored for
the connecting Client.

The Broker continues authentication using an AUTH packet that contains the Authentication
Method and the Authentication Data. The Authentication Method
Authentication Data
the Client (Figure 5).

 contain an 8-byte RS nonce as a challenge for

 be set to "ace", and the

 be empty and

MUST NOT

MUST

MUST

+---------------------------------------------------------+
|Authentication|Client Nonce |MAC or Signature            |
|Data Length   |(8 bytes)    |(over RS nonce+Client nonce)|
+---------------------------------------------------------+

Figure 6: Authentication Data for the Client Challenge Response

The Client responds to this with an AUTH packet with reason code 0x18 (Continue
Authentication). Similarly, the Client packet sets the Authentication Method to "ace". The
Authentication Data in the Client's response is formatted as shown in Figure 6 and includes the 8-
byte Client nonce and the signature or MAC computed over the RS nonce concatenated with the
Client nonce using PoP key in the token.

Next, the token is validated as described in Section 2.2.5. The success case is illustrated in Figure
7. The Client
 also reauthenticate using this challenge-response flow, as described in Section
4.

MAY

Client      Broker
 |             |
 |<===========>| TLS connection setup
 |             |
 |             |
 +------------>| CONNECT with Authentication Data
 |             | contains only token
 |             |
 <-------------+ AUTH 0x18 (Cont. Authentication)
 |             | 8-byte RS nonce as challenge
 |             |
 |------------>| AUTH 0x18 (Cont. Authentication)
 |             | 8-byte Client nonce + signature/MAC
 |             |
 |             |---+ Token validation
 |             |   | (may involve introspection)
 |             |<--+
 |             |
 |<------------+ CONNACK 0x00 (Success)

Figure 7: PoP Challenge/Response Flow - Success

Sengul & Kirby

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9431

MQTT-TLS Profile of ACE

July 2023

2.2.5.  Broker Token Validation

 verify the validity of the token either locally (e.g., in the case of a self-contained

 send a request to the introspection endpoint of the AS (as described for HTTP-

Section 5.9 of the ACE framework [RFC9200]

). The Broker

MUST

 verify the

MAY

MUST

The Broker
token) or
based interactions in
claims in the access token according to the rules set in
[RFC9200]
.

Section 5.10.1.1 of the ACE framework

To authenticate the Client, the Broker validates the signature or the MAC, depending on how the
PoP protocol is implemented. For self-contained tokens, the Broker
 process the security
protection of the token first, as specified by the respective token format, i.e., a CWT uses COSE,
while a JWT uses JOSE. For a token-by-reference, the Broker uses the "cnf" structure returned as
a result of token introspection, as specified in
 and
Ed25519
 are mandatory to implement for the Broker. The Client
least one of them depending on the choice of symmetric or asymmetric validation. Validation of
 fail if the signature algorithm is set to "none" when the key used for
the signature or MAC
the signature algorithm cannot be determined or the computed and received signature/MAC do
not match.

. HMAC-SHA-256 (HS256)
MUST

[RFC6234]
 implement at

[RFC7519]

[RFC8032]

MUST

MUST

MUST

 check if the access token is still valid, if it is the intended destination (i.e., the

The Broker
audience) of the token, and if the token was issued by an authorized Authorization Server. If the
Client is using TLS RPK mode to authenticate to the Broker, the AS constructs the access token so
that the Broker can associate the access token with the Client's public key. The "cnf" claim
MUST
contain either the Client's RPK or, if the key is already known by the Broker (e.g., from previous
communication), a reference to it.

2.3.  Token Scope and Authorization

The scope field contains the publish and subscribe permissions for the Client. Therefore, the
token or its introspection result
SUBSCRIBE messages. During the CONNECT, if the Will Flag is set to 1, the Broker
authorize the publication of the Will Topic and Will Message using the token's scope field. The
Broker uses the scope to match against the Topic Name in a PUBLISH packet (including Will Topic
in the CONNECT) or a Topic Filter in a SUBSCRIBE packet.

 be cached to allow a Client's future PUBLISH and
MUST

MUST

 also

The scope in the token is a single value. For a JWT, the single scope is a base64url-encoded string
with any padding characters removed, which has an internal structure of a JSON array. For a
CWT, this information is represented in CBOR. The internal structure follows the
Information Format (AIF) for ACE [RFC9237]
[RFC8610]

. Using the Concise Data Definition Language (CDDL)

, the specific data model for MQTT is:

Authorization

Sengul & Kirby

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9431

MQTT-TLS Profile of ACE

July 2023

 AIF-MQTT = AIF-Generic<mqtt-topic-filter, mqtt-permissions>
 AIF-Generic<Toid, Tperm> = [* [Toid, Tperm]]
 mqtt-topic-filter = tstr ; as per Section 4.7 of MQTT v5.0
 mqtt-permissions = [+permission]
 permission = "pub"/"sub"

Figure 8: AIF-MQTT Data Model

Topic Filters are implemented according to Section 4.7 of the
OASIS-Standard-v5]
. By default, Wildcard Subscriptions are supported, and so, the Topic Filter
may include special wildcard characters. The multi-level wildcard, "#", matches any number of
levels within a topic, and the single-level wildcard, "+", matches one topic level. The Broker
MAY
signal in the CONNACK explicitly whether Wildcard Subscriptions are supported by returning a
CONNACK property "Wildcard Subscription Available". A value of 0 means that Wildcard
Subscriptions are not supported. A value of 1 means Wildcard Subscriptions are supported.

MQTT v5.0 OASIS Standard [MQTT-

Following this model, an example scope may contain:

 [["topic1",["pub","sub"]],["topic2/#",["pub"]],["+/topic3",["sub"]]]

Figure 9: Example Scope

This access token gives publish ("pub") and subscribe ("sub") permissions to the "topic1", publish
permission to all the subtopics of "topic2", and subscribe permission to all "topic3", skipping one
level.

If the scope is empty, the Broker records no permissions for the Client for any topic. In this case,
the Client is not able to publish or subscribe to any protected topics. The non-empty scope is used
to authorize the Will Topic, if provided, in the CONNECT packet, during connection setup and, if
the connection request succeeds, the Topic Names or Topic Filters requested in the future
 verify that
PUBLISH and SUBSCRIBE packets. For the authorization to succeed, the Broker
the Topic Name or Topic Filter in question is either an exact match to or a subset of at least one
"topic_filter" in the scope.

MUST

2.4.  Broker Response to Client Connection Request

Based on the validation result (obtained either via local inspection or using the introspection
interface of the AS), the Broker

 send a CONNACK packet to the Client.

MUST

2.4.1.  Unauthorized Request and the Optional Authorization Server Discovery

Authentication can fail for the following reasons:

•

if the Client does not provide a valid token,

•

the Client omits the Authentication Data field and the Broker has no token stored for the
Client,

•

the token or Authentication data are malformed, or

Sengul & Kirby

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9431

MQTT-TLS Profile of ACE

July 2023

•

if the Will Flag is set, the authorization checks for the Will Topic fails.

The Broker responds with the CONNACK reason code 0x87 (Not Authorized) or any other
applicable reason code.

MAY

 also trigger AS discovery and include a User Property (identified as property

The Broker
type 38 (0x26)) in the CONNACK for the AS Request Creation Hints. The User Property is a UTF-8
string pair, composed of a name and a value. The name of the User Property
 be set to
"ace_as_hint". The value of the User Property is a UTF-8-encoded JSON object containing the
mandatory "AS" parameter and the optional parameters "audience", "kid", "cnonce", and "scope",
as defined in

Section 5.3 of the ACE framework [RFC9200]
.

MUST

2.4.2.  Authorization Success

On success, the reason code of the CONNACK is 0x00 (Success). If the Broker starts a new Session,
it
 also set Session Present to 0 in the CONNACK packet to signal a new Session to the Client.
Otherwise, it

 set Session Present to 1.

MUST

MUST

MUST

Having accepted the connection, the Broker
 be prepared to store the token during the
connection and after disconnection for future use. If the token is not self-contained and the
Broker uses token introspection, it
PUBLISH and SUBSCRIBE packets. PUBLISH and SUBSCRIBE packets, which are sent after a
connection setup, do not contain access tokens. If the introspection result is not cached, the
Broker needs to introspect the saved token for each request. The Broker
 also use a cache
timeout to introspect tokens regularly. The timeout value is specific to the application and should
be chosen to reduce the risk of using stale introspection responses.

 cache the validation result to authorize the subsequent

SHOULD

MAY

3.  Authorizing PUBLISH and SUBSCRIBE Packets

Using the cached token or its introspection result, the Broker uses the scope field to match
against the Topic Name in a PUBLISH packet or a Topic Filter in a SUBSCRIBE packet.

3.1.  PUBLISH Packets from the Publisher Client to the Broker

On receiving the PUBLISH packet, the Broker
MUST
Topic Name in the packet header to match against the scope array items in the cached token or
its introspection result. Following the example in Section 2.3, the Client sending a PUBLISH
packet for "topic2/a" would be allowed, as the scope array includes the ["topic2/#",["pub"]].

 use the type of packet (i.e., PUBLISH) and the

If the Client is allowed to publish to the topic, the Broker publishes the message to all valid
subscribers of the topic. In the case of an authorization failure, the Broker
 return an error
if the Client has set the QoS level of the PUBLISH packet to greater than or equal to 1. Depending
on the QoS level, the Broker responds with either a PUBACK or PUBREC packet with reason code
0x87 (Not authorized). On receiving an acknowledgment with 0x87 (Not authorized), the Client
MAY

 reauthenticate by providing a new token, as described in Section 4.

MUST

Sengul & Kirby

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9431

MQTT-TLS Profile of ACE

July 2023

For QoS level 0, the Broker sends a DISCONNECT packet with reason code 0x87 (Not authorized)
and closes the Network Connection. Note that the server-side DISCONNECT is a new feature of
MQTT v5.0 (in MQTT v3.1.1, the server needs to drop the connection).

For all QoS levels, the Broker
Topic Names to unauthorized clients.

MAY

 return 0x80 (Unspecified error) if they do not want to leak the

3.2.  PUBLISH Packets from the Broker to the Subscriber Clients

To forward PUBLISH packets to the subscribing Clients, the Broker identifies all the subscribers
that have valid matching Topic Subscriptions to the Topic Name of the PUBLISH packet (i.e., the
tokens are valid, and token scopes allow a Subscription to this particular Topic Name). The
Broker forwards the PUBLISH packet to all the valid subscribers.

 forward messages to unauthorized subscribers. To avoid silently dropping
MUST

The Broker
MUST NOT
messages, the Broker
subscribers. In this case, the only way to inform a client would be sending a DISCONNECT packet.
Therefore, the Broker
authorized) before closing the Network Connection to these clients.

 send a DISCONNECT packet with reason code 0x87 (Not

 close the Network Connection and

 inform the affected

SHOULD

SHOULD

3.3.  Authorizing SUBSCRIBE Packets

In MQTT, a SUBSCRIBE packet is sent from a Client to the Broker to create one or more
Subscriptions to one or more topics. The SUBSCRIBE packet may contain multiple Topic Filters.
The Topic Filters may include wildcard characters.

MUST

On receiving the SUBSCRIBE packet, the Broker
the Topic Filter in the packet header to match against the scope field of the stored token or
introspection result. The Topic Filters
the "topic_filter" fields in the scope array found in the Client's token. For example, if the Client
sends a SUBSCRIBE request for topic "a/b/*" and has a token that permits "a/*", this is a valid
SUBSCRIBE request, as "a/b/*" is a subset of "a/*". (The process is similar to a Broker matching the
Topic Name in a PUBLISH packet against the Subscriptions known to the Server.)

 be an exact match to or be a subset of at least one of

 use the type of packet (i.e., SUBSCRIBE) and

MUST

As a response to the SUBSCRIBE packet, the Broker issues a SUBACK packet. For each Topic Filter,
the SUBACK packet includes a return code matching the QoS level for the corresponding Topic
Filter. In the case of failure, the return code is 0x87, indicating that the Client is not authorized.
The Broker
 return 0x80 (Unspecified error) if they do not want to leak the Topic Names to
unauthorized clients. A reason code is returned for each Topic Filter. Therefore, the Client may
receive success codes for a subset of its Topic Filters while being unauthorized for the rest.

MAY

4.  Token Expiration, Update, and Reauthentication

MUST

The Broker
packet is received or sent. The Broker
PINGREQ packet. The Broker
This may allow for early detection of a token expiry.

SHOULD

MAY

 check for token expiration whenever a CONNECT, PUBLISH, or SUBSCRIBE

 check for token expiration on receiving a

 also check for token expiration periodically, e.g., every hour.

Sengul & Kirby

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9431

MQTT-TLS Profile of ACE

July 2023

The token expiration is checked by checking the "exp" claim of a JWT or introspection response
or via performing an introspection request with the AS, as described in
framework [RFC9200]
. Token expirations may trigger the Broker to send PUBACK, SUBACK, and
DISCONNECT packets with the return code set to "Not authorized". After sending a DISCONNECT
packet, the Network Connection is closed, and no more messages can be sent.

Section 5.9 of the ACE

MAY

MUST

 reauthenticate a response to PUBACK and SUBACK, which signal loss of

 also proactively update their tokens, i.e., before they receive a
 send an
MUST
 set the Authentication

The Client
MAY
authorization. The Clients
packet with a "Not authorized" return code. To start reauthentication, the Client
AUTH packet with reason code 0x19 (Reauthentication). The Client
Method as "ace" and transport the new token in the Authentication Data. If reauthenticating
during the current TLS session, the Client
MUST NOT
2.2.4.2.1, i.e., proof of possession using a challenge from the TLS session, to avoid reusing the
same challenge value from the TLS-Exporter. Note that this means that servers will either need
to record in the session ticket or database entry whether the TLS-Exporter-derived challenge was
used or always deny use of the TLS-Exporter-derived challenge for resumed sessions. In TLS 1.3,
the resumed connection would have a new exporter value, but the requirement is phrased this
way for simplicity. For reauthentications in the same TLS-session, the Client
challenge-response PoP, as defined in Section 2.2.4.2.2. The Broker accepts reauthentication
requests if the Client has already submitted a token (may be expired), for which it performed
proof of possession. Otherwise, the Broker
MUST
the Broker

 send a DISCONNECT packet with reason code 0x87 (Not Authorized).

 deny the request. If the reauthentication fails,

 use the method described in Section

 use the

MUST

MUST

5.  Handling Disconnections and Retained Messages

In the case of a Client DISCONNECT, if the Session Expiry Interval is set to 0, the Broker doesn't
store the Session State but
State, the state
addition to the MQTT Session State. The MQTT Session State is identified by the Client Identifier
and includes the following:

 include the token and its introspection result (for reference tokens) in

 keep the retained messages. If the Broker stores the Session

MUST

MAY

•

the Client Subscriptions,

•

messages with QoS levels 1 and 2, which have not been completely acknowledged or are
pending transmission to the Client, and

•

if the Session is currently not connected, the time at which the Session will end and the
Session State will be discarded.

The token/introspection state is not part of the MQTT Session State, and PoP validation is
required for each new connection, regardless of whether existing MQTT Sessions are continued.

The messages to be retained are indicated to the Broker by setting a RETAIN flag in a PUBLISH
packet. This way, the publisher signals to the Broker to store the most recent message for the
associated topic. Hence, the new subscribers can receive the last sent message from the publisher
for that particular topic without waiting for the next PUBLISH packet. The Broker
 continue
MUST
publishing the retained messages as long as the associated tokens are valid. In the MQTT
standard, if QoS is 0 for the PUBLISH packet, the Broker may discard the retained message any

Sengul & Kirby

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9431

MQTT-TLS Profile of ACE

July 2023

time. For QoS > 1, the message expiry interval dictates how long the retained message is kept.
However, it is important that the Broker avoids sending messages indefinitely for the Clients that
never update their tokens (i.e., the Client connects briefly with a valid token, sends a PUBLISH
packet with the RETAIN flag set to 1 and QoS > 1, disconnects, and never connects again).
Therefore, the Broker
MUST
discard a retained message.

 use the minimum of the token expiry and message expiry interval to

In case of disconnections due to network errors or server disconnection due to a protocol error
(which includes authorization errors), the Will Message is sent if the Client supplied a Will in the
CONNECT packet. The Client's token scope array
 include the Will Topic. The Will Message
MUST
 be published to the Will Topic, regardless of whether the corresponding token has expired
MUST
(as it has been validated and accepted during CONNECT).

6.  Reduced Protocol Interactions for MQTT v3.1.1

This section describes a reduced set of protocol interactions for the MQTT v3.1.1 Clients. An
MQTT v5.0 Broker
 implement these interactions for the MQTT v3.1.1 Clients; the flows
described in this section are
not support MQTT v3.1.1 Clients return a CONNACK packet with reason code 0x84 (Unsupported
Protocol Version) in response to the connection requests.

 for use by MQTT v5.0 Clients. Brokers that do

NOT RECOMMENDED

MAY

6.1.  Token Transport

MAY

 either be transported before, by publishing to the "authz-info"
As in MQTT v5.0, the token
topic, or inside the CONNECT packet. If the Client provided the token via the "authz-info" topic
and will not update the token in the CONNECT packet, it
SHOULD
of transport).

 authenticate over TLS. The Broker
 still be prepared to store the Client access token for future use (regardless of the method

MUST

In MQTT v3.1.1, after the Client has published to the "authz-info" topic, the Broker cannot
communicate the result of the token validation because PUBACK reason codes or server-side
DISCONNECT packets are not supported. In any case, the subsequent TLS handshake would fail
without a valid token, which can prompt the Client to obtain a valid token.

To transport the token to the Broker inside the CONNECT packet, the Client uses the User Name
and Password fields. Figure 10 shows the structure of the MQTT CONNECT packet.

Sengul & Kirby

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9431

MQTT-TLS Profile of ACE

July 2023

0             8             16
+---------------------------+
|Protocol name length = 4   |
+---------------------------+
|     'M'            'Q'    |
+---------------------------+
|     'T'            'T'    |
+---------------------------+
|Proto.level=5|Connect flags|
+---------------------------+
|        Keep alive         |
+---------------------------+
|        Payload            |
|  Client Identifier        |
|  (UTF-8-encoded string)   |
| User Name as access token |
|   (UTF-8-encoded string)  |
| Password for signature/MAC|
|     (Binary Data)         |
+---------------------------+

Figure 10: MQTT CONNECT Variable Header Using a User Name and Password for ACE

Table 2 shows how the MQTT connect flags

MUST

 be set to initiate a connection with the Broker.

User Name Flag

Password Flag Will Retain Will QoS Will Flag

Clean

Rsvd.

1

1

X

X X

X

X

0

Table 2: MQTT CONNECT Flags (Rsvd. = Reserved)

MUST

MUST

SHOULD

 create a new Session. The Broker

 set the Clean flag to 1 to always start a new Session. If the Clean flag is set to 0,

The Client
the Broker
 resume communications with the Client based on the state from the current
Session (as identified by the Client Identifier). If there is no Session associated with the Client
Identifier, the Broker
the CONNACK packet accordingly, i.e., 0 to indicate a new Session to the Client and 1 to indicate
that the existing Session is continued. The Broker
provided Client token. MQTT v3.1.1 does not use a Session Expiry Interval, and the Client expects
that the Broker maintains the Session State after it disconnects. However, the stored Session State
can be discarded as a result of administrator action or policies (e.g., defining an automated
response based on storage capabilities), and Brokers
to limit misuse.

 still perform PoP validation on the

 implement administrative policies

 set the Session Present flag in

SHOULD

MUST

MUST

 set the Will Flag as desired (marked as "X" in Table 2). User Name and Password
MAY
 be set to 1 to ensure that the Payload of the CONNECT packet includes both the User

The Client
flags
MUST
Name and Password fields. The MQTT User Name is a UTF-8-encoded string, and the MQTT
Password is Binary Data.

Sengul & Kirby

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9431

MQTT-TLS Profile of ACE

July 2023

The CONNECT in MQTT v3.1.1 does not have a field to indicate the Authentication Method. To
signal that the User Name field contains an ACE token, this field
 be prefixed with the
keyword "ace", i.e., the User Name field is a concatenation of 'a', 'c', 'e', and the access token
represented as:

MUST

Figure 11: User Name in CONNECT

'U+0061'||'U+0063'||'U+0065'||UTF-8(access token)

To this end, the access token
characters

[RFC4648]
.

MUST

 be encoded with base64url, omitting the "=" padding

The Password field
the access token for PoP. The Client
TLS session, as described in Section 2.2.4.2.1.

MUST

MUST

 be set to the keyed message digest (MAC) or signature associated with

 apply the PoP key on the challenge derived from the

6.2.  Handling Authorization Errors

Error handling is more primitive in MQTT v3.1.1 due to not having appropriate error fields, error
codes, and server-side DISCONNECTs. Therefore, the Broker will disconnect on almost any error
and may not keep the Session State, necessitating that clients make a greater effort to ensure that
tokens remain valid and do not attempt to publish to topics that they do not have permissions
for. The following lists how the Broker responds to specific errors.

CONNECT without a token:

The tokenless CONNECT attempt
 fail. This is because the challenge-response-based
PoP is not possible for MQTT v3.1.1. It is also not possible to support AS discovery since a
CONNACK packet in MQTT v3.1.1 does not include a means to provide additional
information to the Client. Therefore, AS discovery needs to take place out of band.

MUST

Client-Broker PUBLISH authorization failure:

In the case of a failure, it is not possible to return an error in MQTT v3.1.1.
Acknowledgment messages only indicate success. In the case of an authorization error,
the Broker
DISCONNECT packets are only sent from a Client to the Broker, the server disconnection
needs to take place below the application layer.

 ignore the PUBLISH packet and disconnect the Client. Also, as

MUST

SUBSCRIBE authorization failure:

In the SUBACK packet, the return code is 0x80, indicating failure for the unauthorized
topic(s). Note that, in both MQTT versions, a reason code is returned for each Topic
Filter.

Broker-Client PUBLISH authorization failure:

When the Broker is forwarding PUBLISH packets to the subscribed Clients, it may
discover that some of the subscribers are no longer authorized due to expired tokens.
These token expirations
dropping messages.

 lead to disconnecting the Client rather than silently

MUST

Sengul & Kirby

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9431

MQTT-TLS Profile of ACE

July 2023

7.  IANA Considerations

7.1.  TLS Exporter Labels Registration

This document registers "EXPORTER-ACE-MQTT-Sign-Challenge" (introduced in Section 2.2.4.2.1
in this document) in the "TLS Exporter Labels" registry

[RFC8447]
.

Recommended:

N

DTLS-OK:

N

Reference:

RFC 9431

7.2.  Media Type Registration

This document registers the "application/ace+json" media type for messages of the protocols
defined in this document carrying parameters encoded in JSON.

Type name:

application

Subtype name:

ace+json

Required parameters:

N/A

Optional parameters:

N/A

Encoding considerations:

Encoding considerations are identical to those specified for the

"application/json" media type.

Security considerations:

Section 8 of RFC 9431

Interoperability considerations:

none

Published specification:

RFC 9431

Applications that use this media type:

This media type is intended for Authorization-Server-

Client and Authorization-Server-Resource-Server communication as part of the ACE
framework using JSON encoding, as specified in RFC 9431.

Fragment identifier considerations:

none

Additional information:

Deprecated alias names for this type:

none

Magic number(s):

none

File extension(s):

none

Macintosh file type code(s):

none

Sengul & Kirby

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9431

MQTT-TLS Profile of ACE

July 2023

Person & email address to contact for further information:

Cigdem Sengul <csengul@acm.org>

Intended usage:

COMMON

Restrictions on usage:

none

Author:

Cigdem Sengul <csengul@acm.org>

Change controller:

IETF

7.3.  ACE OAuth Profile Registration

The following registrations have been made in the "ACE Profiles" registry, following the
procedure specified in

[RFC9200]
.

Name:

mqtt_tls

Description:

Profile for delegating Client authentication and authorization using MQTT for the

Client and Broker (RS) interactions and HTTP for the AS interactions. TLS is used for
confidentiality and integrity protection and server authentication. Client authentication can
be provided either via TLS or using in-band PoP validation at the MQTT application layer.

CBOR Value:

3

Reference:

RFC 9431

7.4.  AIF

For the media types "application/aif+cbor" and "application/aif+json", defined in
[RFC9237]
Tperm in the respective subregistry defined in
Sub-Parameter Registries".

Section 5.2 of [RFC9237]

, IANA has registered the following entries for the two media type parameters Toid and

 within the "Media Type

Section 5.1 of

For Toid:
Name:

mqtt-topic-filter

Description/Specification:

Topic Filter, as defined in Section 2.3 of RFC 9431.

Reference:

RFC 9431, Section 2.3

For Tperm:
Name:

mqtt-permissions

Description/Specification:

Permissions for the MQTT Client, as defined in Section 2.3 of RFC
9431. Tperm is an array of one or more text strings that each have a value of either "pub"
or "sub".

Reference:

RFC 9431, Section 2.3

Sengul & Kirby

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9431

MQTT-TLS Profile of ACE

July 2023

8.  Security Considerations

This document specifies a profile for the Authentication and Authorization for Constrained
Environments (ACE) framework
[RFC9200]

. Therefore, the security considerations outlined in

 apply to this work.

[RFC9200]

 and

MQTT v5.0 OASIS Standard [MQTT-OASIS-
In addition, the security considerations outlined in the
MQTT v3.1.1 OASIS Standard [MQTT-OASIS-Standard-v3.1.1]
Standard-v5]
 apply. Mainly, this
document provides an authorization solution for MQTT, the responsibility of which is left to the
specific implementation in the MQTT standards. In the following, we comment on a few relevant
issues based on the current MQTT specifications.

After the Broker validates an access token and accepts a connection from a client, it caches the
token to authorize a Client's publish and subscribe requests in an ongoing Session. The Broker
does not cache any tokens that cannot be validated. If a Client's permissions get revoked, but the
access token has not expired, the Broker may still grant publish/subscribe to revoked topics. If
the Broker caches the token introspection responses, then the Broker
cache timeout to introspect tokens regularly. The timeout value is application specific and should
be chosen to reduce the risk of using stale introspection responses. When permissions change
dynamically, it is expected that the AS also follows a reasonable expiration strategy for the access
tokens.

 use a reasonable

SHOULD

The Broker may monitor Client behavior to detect potential security problems, especially those
affecting availability. These include repeated token transfer attempts to the public "authz-info"
topic, repeated connection attempts, abnormal terminations, and Clients that connect but do not
send any data. If the Broker supports the public "authz-info" topic, described in Section 2.2.2,
then this may be vulnerable to a DDoS attack, where many Clients use the "authz-info" public
topic to transport tokens that are not meant to be used and that the Broker may need to store
until they expire.

For MQTT v5.0, when a Client connects with a long Session Expiry Interval, the Broker may need
to maintain the Client's MQTT Session State after it disconnects for an extended period. For MQTT
v3.1.1, the Session State may need to be stored indefinitely, as it does not have a Session Expiry
 implement administrative policies to limit misuse by the
Interval feature. The Broker
Client resulting from continuing existing Sessions.

SHOULD

9.  Privacy Considerations

The privacy considerations outlined in

[RFC9200]

 apply to this work.

In MQTT, the Broker is a central trusted party and may forward potentially sensitive information
between Clients. The mechanisms defined in this document do not protect the contents of the
PUBLISH packet from the Broker, and hence, the content of the PUBLISH packet is not signed or

Sengul & Kirby

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 9431

MQTT-TLS Profile of ACE

July 2023

encrypted separately for the subscribers. This functionality may be implemented using the
the ACE Pub-Sub Profile [ACE-PUBSUB-PROFILE]
proposal outlined in
would still not provide privacy for other fields of the packet, such as Topic Name.

. However, this solution

10.  References

10.1.  Normative References

[MQTT-OASIS-Standard-v3.1.1]

Banks, A., Ed.

 and

R. Gupta, Ed. "MQTT Version 3.1.1 Plus

,

Errata 01" OASIS Standard
mqtt/v3.1.1/mqtt-v3.1.1.html>

,

.

, December 2015,

<https://docs.oasis-open.org/mqtt/

[MQTT-OASIS-Standard-v5]

Banks, A., Ed. Briggs, E., Ed. Borgendale, K., Ed.

,

,
, March 2019,

, and
<https://docs.oasis-open.org/

R. Gupta, Ed.
,

"MQTT Version 5.0" OASIS Standard
mqtt/mqtt/v5.0/mqtt-v5.0.html>

,

.

[RFC2119]

[RFC4648]

[RFC5705]

[RFC6066]

[RFC6234]

[RFC6749]

[RFC7250]

[RFC7301]

[RFC7516]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Josefsson, S. "The Base16, Base32, and Base64 Data Encodings" RFC 4648 DOI
10.17487/RFC4648

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4648>

, October 2006,

,

,

.

,

Rescorla, E. "Keying Material Exporters for Transport Layer Security (TLS)" RFC
5705 DOI 10.17487/RFC5705
,
rfc5705>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, March 2010,

,

.

,

Eastlake 3rd, D. "Transport Layer Security (TLS) Extensions: Extension
Definitions" RFC 6066 DOI 10.17487/RFC6066
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc6066>

, January 2011,

.

<https://www.rfc-

 and

Eastlake 3rd, D.
based HMAC and HKDF)" RFC 6234 DOI 10.17487/RFC6234
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6234>

,

,

,

.

T. Hansen "US Secure Hash Algorithms (SHA and SHA-

, May 2011,

<https://

Hardt, D., Ed. "The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework" RFC 6749 DOI
10.17487/RFC6749

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6749>

, October 2012,

,

,

,

.

,

Wouters, P., Ed. Tschofenig, H., Ed. Gilmore, J. Weiler, S.
Raw Public Keys in Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport
<https://
Layer Security (DTLS)" RFC 7250 DOI 10.17487/RFC7250
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7250>
.

, June 2014,

, and

,

,

,

,

T. Kivinen "Using

,

Friedl, S. Popov, A. Langley, A.
Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation Extension" RFC 7301 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7301

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7301>
.

E. Stephan "Transport Layer Security (TLS)

, July 2014,

, and

,

,

,

Jones, M.
10.17487/RFC7516

 and

J. Hildebrand "JSON Web Encryption (JWE)" RFC 7516 DOI

,

,

,

, May 2015,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7516>

.

Sengul & Kirby

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 9431

MQTT-TLS Profile of ACE

July 2023

[RFC7517]

[RFC7519]

[RFC7627]

[RFC7800]

[RFC8032]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8422]

[RFC8442]

[RFC8446]

[RFC8610]

[RFC8747]

[RFC9052]

Jones, M. "JSON Web Key (JWK)" RFC 7517 DOI 10.17487/RFC7517
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7517>

,

,

.

, May 2015,

Jones, M. Bradley, J.
,
10.17487/RFC7519

, and

N. Sakimura "JSON Web Token (JWT)" RFC 7519 DOI

,

,

,

, May 2015,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7519>

.

,

Bhargavan, K., Ed. Delignat-Lavaud, A. Pironti, A. Langley, A.
M. Ray
"Transport Layer Security (TLS) Session Hash and Extended Master Secret
Extension" RFC 7627 DOI 10.17487/RFC7627
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc7627>

, September 2015,

, and

,

,

.

,

<https://www.rfc-

Jones, M. Bradley, J.
,
JSON Web Tokens (JWTs)" RFC 7800 DOI 10.17487/RFC7800
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7800>

H. Tschofenig "Proof-of-Possession Key Semantics for
<https://
,

, April 2016,

, and

,

,

.

 and

Josefsson, S.
(EdDSA)" RFC 8032 DOI 10.17487/RFC8032
editor.org/info/rfc8032>

,

,

.

I. Liusvaara "Edwards-Curve Digital Signature Algorithm

,

, January 2017,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

, and

M. Pegourie-Gonnard "Elliptic Curve Cryptography

Nir, Y. Josefsson, S.
(ECC) Cipher Suites for Transport Layer Security (TLS) Versions 1.2 and Earlier"
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 8422 DOI 10.17487/RFC8422
, August 2018,
rfc8422>

,
.

,

 and

Mattsson, J.
Suites for TLS 1.2 and DTLS 1.2" RFC 8442 DOI 10.17487/RFC8442
,
2018,

D. Migault "ECDHE_PSK with AES-GCM and AES-CCM Cipher
, September

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8442>

,

.

,

Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
,
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>

, August 2018,

,

.

, and

Birkholz, H. Vigano, C.
,
(CDDL): A Notational Convention to Express Concise Binary Object
Representation (CBOR) and JSON Data Structures" RFC 8610 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8610

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8610>

C. Bormann "Concise Data Definition Language

, June 2019,

,

,

.

,

Jones, M. Seitz, L. Selander, G. Erdtman, S.
Possession Key Semantics for CBOR Web Tokens (CWTs)" RFC 8747 DOI
10.17487/RFC8747

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8747>

H. Tschofenig "Proof-of-

, March 2020,

, and

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

Schaad, J. "CBOR Object Signing and Encryption (COSE): Structures and
<https://
Process" STD 96 RFC 9052 DOI 10.17487/RFC9052
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9052>

, August 2022,

.

,

,

Sengul & Kirby

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 9431

MQTT-TLS Profile of ACE

July 2023

[RFC9110]

[RFC9200]

[RFC9201]

[RFC9202]

[RFC9237]

[RFC9360]

[RFC9430]

,

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
97 RFC 9110 DOI 10.17487/RFC9110
rfc9110>

,

,

.

, and
, June 2022,

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP Semantics" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

,

,

Seitz, L. Selander, G. Wahlstroem, E. Erdtman, S.
,
"Authentication and Authorization for Constrained Environments Using the
OAuth 2.0 Framework (ACE-OAuth)" RFC 9200 DOI 10.17487/RFC9200
2022,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9200>
.

H. Tschofenig

, and

,

,

, August

,

Seitz, L. "Additional OAuth Parameters for Authentication and Authorization for
Constrained Environments (ACE)" RFC 9201 DOI 10.17487/RFC9201
,
2022,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9201>

, August

.

,

,

Gerdes, S. Bergmann, O. Bormann, C. Selander, G.
,
,
Transport Layer Security (DTLS) Profile for Authentication and Authorization
for Constrained Environments (ACE)" RFC 9202 DOI 10.17487/RFC9202
,
2022,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9202>

L. Seitz "Datagram

, and

,
.

,

, August

,

Bormann, C. "An Authorization Information Format (AIF) for Authentication
and Authorization for Constrained Environments (ACE)" RFC 9237 DOI
10.17487/RFC9237

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9237>

, August 2022,

,

,

.

,

Schaad, J. "CBOR Object Signing and Encryption (COSE): Header Parameters for
Carrying and Referencing X.509 Certificates" RFC 9360 DOI 10.17487/RFC9360
,
February 2023,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9360>

,

.

,

, and

Bergmann, O. Preuß Mattsson, J.
G. Selander "Extension of the Datagram
Transport Layer Security (DTLS) Profile for Authentication and Authorization
for Constrained Environments (ACE) to Transport Layer Security (TLS)" RFC
9430 DOI 10.17487/RFC9430
,
rfc9430>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, July 2023,

,

.

10.2.  Informative References

[ACE-PUBSUB-PROFILE]

,

Palombini, F. Sengul, C.

M. Tiloca "Publish-Subscribe Profile for
Authentication and Authorization for Constrained Environments (ACE)" Work
in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-ace-pubsub-profile-06
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-ace-pubsub-profile-06>

, 13 March 2023,

, and

,

,

,

.

[Fremantle14]

[RFC4949]

,

,

Fremantle, P. Aziz, B. Kopecky, J.
Management for the Internet of Things" International Workshop on Secure
Internet of Things DOI 10.1109/SIoT.2014.8
10.1109/SIoT.2014.8>
.

P. Scott "Federated Identity and Access
,

, September 2014,

<https://dx.doi.org/

, and

,

,

Shirey, R. "Internet Security Glossary, Version 2" FYI 36 RFC 4949 DOI
,
10.17487/RFC4949

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4949>

, August 2007,

,

,

,

.

Sengul & Kirby

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 9431

MQTT-TLS Profile of ACE

July 2023

[RFC7252]

[RFC7925]

[RFC8392]

[RFC8447]

[RFC8949]

[RFC9325]

[TLS-bis]

Shelby, Z. Hartke, K.
,
(CoAP)" RFC 7252 DOI 10.17487/RFC7252
editor.org/info/rfc7252>

, and

,

,

.

C. Bormann "The Constrained Application Protocol

,

, June 2014,

<https://www.rfc-

T. Fossati "Transport Layer Security (TLS) / Datagram
Tschofenig, H., Ed.
Transport Layer Security (DTLS) Profiles for the Internet of Things" RFC 7925
DOI 10.17487/RFC7925

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7925>

, July 2016,

 and

,

.

,

,

,

Jones, M. Wahlstroem, E. Erdtman, S.
(CWT)" RFC 8392 DOI 10.17487/RFC8392
,
info/rfc8392>

,

,

.

, and

H. Tschofenig "CBOR Web Token

,

, May 2018,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

Salowey, J.
DOI 10.17487/RFC8447

S. Turner "IANA Registry Updates for TLS and DTLS" RFC 8447
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8447>
.

, August 2018,

 and

,

,

Bormann, C.
STD 94 RFC 8949 DOI 10.17487/RFC8949
editor.org/info/rfc8949>

P. Hoffman "Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR)"
 and
<https://www.rfc-
,

, December 2020,

,

,

.

,

,

, and

Sheffer, Y. Saint-Andre, P.
,
Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)"
BCP 195 RFC 9325 DOI 10.17487/RFC9325
editor.org/info/rfc9325>

T. Fossati "Recommendations for Secure Use of

, November 2022,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

,

,

Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" Work in
Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-tls-rfc8446bis-09
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-tls-rfc8446bis-09>

, 7 July 2023,
.

,
<https://

,

Appendix A.  Checklist for Profile Requirements

Based on the requirements on profiles for the ACE framework
the following:

[RFC9200]

, this document fulfills

•

Optional AS discovery: AS discovery is supported with the MQTT v5.0 described in Section
2.2.

•

The communication protocol between the Client and Broker (RS): MQTT

•

The security protocol between the Client and RS: TLS

•

Client and RS mutual authentication: Several options are possible and described in Section
2.2.1.

•

Proof-of-possession protocols: Both symmetric and asymmetric keys are supported, as
specified in Section 2.2.4.2.

•

Content-Format: For the HTTPS interactions with AS, "application/ace+json".

•

Unique profile identifier: mqtt_tls

•

Token introspection: The RS uses the HTTPS introspection interface of the AS.

•

Token request: The Client or its Client AS uses the HTTPS token endpoint of the AS.

Sengul & Kirby

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 9431

MQTT-TLS Profile of ACE

July 2023

•

authz-info endpoint: It
not protected other than by the TLS channel between the Client and RS.

 be supported using the method described in Section 2.2.2 but is

MAY

•

Token transport: Via the "authz-info" topic, TLS with PSKs (provided as a PSK identity), or in
the MQTT CONNECT packet for both versions of MQTT. The AUTH extensions can also be
used for authentication and reauthentication for MQTT v5.0, as described in Sections 2.2 and
4.

Acknowledgments

The authors would like to thank
information endpoint;
resolving issues; and
The authors would like to thank

Benjamin Kaduk
Carsten Bormann

Ludwig Seitz

 for his review and his input on the authorization

 for his review, insightful comments, and contributions to
 for his review and revisions to the AIF-MQTT data model.
 for the initial discussions on MQTT v5.0 support.

Paul Fremantle

Authors' Addresses

Cigdem Sengul
Brunel University
Dept. of Computer Science
Uxbridge
UB8 3PH
United Kingdom
Email:

 csengul@acm.org

Anthony Kirby
Oxbotica
1a Milford House
Mayfield Road, Summertown
Oxford
OX2 7EL
United Kingdom
Email:

 anthony@anthony.org

Sengul & Kirby

Standards Track

Page 33

