Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9597
Standards Track
June 2024
2070-1721
T. Looker
Mattr

M.B. Jones
Self-Issued Consulting

RFC 9597
CBOR Web Token (CWT) Claims in COSE Headers

Abstract

This document describes how to include CBOR Web Token (CWT) claims in the header
parameters of any CBOR Object Signing and Encryption (COSE) structure. This functionality helps
to facilitate applications that wish to make use of CWT claims in encrypted COSE structures and/
or COSE structures featuring detached signatures, while having some of those claims be available
before decryption and/or without inspecting the detached payload. Another use case is using
CWT claims with payloads that are not CWT Claims Sets, including payloads that are not CBOR at
all.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9597
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Looker & Jones

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9597

CWT Claims in COSE Headers

June 2024

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Terminology

2.  Representation

3.  Privacy Considerations

4.  Security Considerations

5.  IANA Considerations

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

6.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

2

3

3

4

4

4

5

5

5

5

6

In some applications of COSE, it is useful to have a standard representation of CWT claims
[RFC8392]
 available in the header parameters. These include encrypted COSE structures, which
may or may not be an encrypted CWT, and/or those featuring a detached signature. Another use
case is using CWT claims with payloads that are not CWT Claims Sets, including payloads that are
not CBOR at all. For instance, an application might want to include an "iss" (issuer) claim in a
COSE_Sign1 structure when the payload being signed is a non-CBOR data structure, such as a
bitmap image, and the issuer value is used for key discovery.

, "JSON Web Token (JWT)", defined a similar mechanism for expressing

Section 5.3 of [RFC7519]
selected JWT-based claims as JSON Object Signing and Encryption (JOSE) header parameters. This
JWT feature was motivated by the desire to have certain claims, such as the Issuer value, be
visible to software processing the JWT, even though the JWT is encrypted. No corresponding
feature was standardized for CWTs, which was an omission that this specification corrects.

Looker & Jones

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9597

CWT Claims in COSE Headers

June 2024

Directly including CWT claim values as COSE header parameter values would not work, since
there are conflicts between the numeric header parameter assignments and the numeric CWT
claim assignments. Instead, this specification defines a single header parameter registered in the
IANA "COSE Header Parameters" registry that creates a location to store CWT claims in a COSE
header parameter.

This specification does not define how to use CWT claims and their semantics for particular
applications, whether they are in the COSE payload or the CWT Claims header parameter, or
both. Therefore, understanding how to process the CWT Claims header parameter requires
unambiguously knowing the intended interpretation. The necessary information about this
come from other header parameters. Unless there already is a natural way of providing this
information at an appropriate level of integrity protection and authentication, a
RECOMMENDED
way to include this information in the COSE structure is use of the "typ" (type) Header Parameter
[RFC9596]
Recipients of the CWT Claims header parameter
Claims header parameter beyond the integrity protection or authentication afforded to the CWT
Claims header and the information used to derive its intended interpretation.

. Other methods for determining the intended interpretation

 use the information in the CWT

 also be used.

MUST NOT

MAY

MAY

1.1.  Requirements Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Representation

This document defines the following COSE header parameter:

Name

Label

Value
Type

Value Registry

Description

Reference

CWT
Claims

Table 1

15

map

map keys in
[CWT.Claims]

Location for CWT
Claims in COSE Header
Parameters

Section 2 of
RFC 9597

The following is a non-normative description for the value type of the CWT claim header
parameter using CDDL

[RFC8610]
.

CWT-Claims = {
 * Claim-Label => any
}

Claim-Label = int / text

Looker & Jones

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9597

CWT Claims in COSE Headers

June 2024

In cases where CWT claims are present both in the payload and the header of a CWT, an
application receiving such a structure
application defines other specific processing rules for these claims.

 verify that their values are identical, unless the

MUST

RECOMMENDED

It is
avoid the contents being malleable. The header parameter
protected or unprotected header of a COSE structure.

 that the CWT Claims header parameter only be used in a protected header to

MUST

 only occur once in either the

The CWT Claims header parameter
such as COSE_Sign objects. Its use is not restricted to CWTs.

MAY

 be used in any COSE object using header parameters,

3.  Privacy Considerations

Some of the registered CWT claims may contain privacy-sensitive information. Since CWT claims
in COSE headers are not encrypted, when privacy-sensitive information is present in these
claims, applications and protocols using them should ensure that these COSE objects are only
made visible to parties for which it is appropriate for them to have access to this sensitive
information.

4.  Security Considerations

Implementers should also review the security considerations for CWT, which are documented in
Section 8 of [RFC8392]
.

[RFC9052]

As described in
then it is the responsibility of the application to ensure that it will be transported without
changes.

, if the COSE payload is transported separately ("detached content"),

The reason for applications to verify that CWT claims present in both the payload and the header
of a CWT are identical, unless they define other specific processing rules for these claims, is to
eliminate potential confusion that might arise by having different values for the same claim,
which could result in inconsistent processing of such claims.

Processing information in claims prior to validating that their integrity is cryptographically
secure can pose security risks. This is true whether the claims are in the payload or a header
parameter. Implementers must ensure that any tentative decisions made based on previously
unverified information are confirmed once the cryptographic processing has been completed.
This includes any information that was used to derive the intended interpretation of the CWT
claims parameter.

5.  IANA Considerations

IANA has registered the new COSE header parameter "CWT Claims" defined in Table 1 in the
"COSE Header Parameters" registry

[COSE.HeaderParameters]
.

Looker & Jones

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9597

CWT Claims in COSE Headers

June 2024

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

[COSE.HeaderParameters]

IANA "COSE Header Parameters" <https://www.iana.org/

,

,
assignments/cose/>
.

[CWT.Claims]

[RFC2119]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8392]

[RFC9596]

,

IANA "CBOR Web Token (CWT) Claims" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/cwt/
,
>

.

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Jones, M. Wahlstroem, E. Erdtman, S.
(CWT)" RFC 8392 DOI 10.17487/RFC8392
,
info/rfc8392>

,

,

.

, and

H. Tschofenig "CBOR Web Token

,

, May 2018,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

O. Steele "CBOR Object Signing and Encryption (COSE) "typ"

 and

Jones, M.B.
(type) Header Parameter" RFC 9596 DOI 10.17487/RFC9596
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9596>

,

,

,

.

, June 2024,

<https://

6.2.  Informative References

[RFC7519]

[RFC8610]

[RFC9052]

Jones, M. Bradley, J.
,
10.17487/RFC7519

, and

N. Sakimura "JSON Web Token (JWT)" RFC 7519 DOI

,

,

,

, May 2015,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7519>

.

, and

Birkholz, H. Vigano, C.
,
(CDDL): A Notational Convention to Express Concise Binary Object
Representation (CBOR) and JSON Data Structures" RFC 8610 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8610

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8610>

C. Bormann "Concise Data Definition Language

, June 2019,

,

,

.

,

Schaad, J. "CBOR Object Signing and Encryption (COSE): Structures and
Process" STD 96 RFC 9052 DOI 10.17487/RFC9052
<https://
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9052>

, August 2022,

,

,

.

Acknowledgements

We would like to thank
Lundblade Ivaylo Petrov Ines Robles Orie Steele Hannes Tschofenig Paul Wouters
,
Yee

 for their valuable contributions to this specification.

Daisuke Ajitomi Claudio Allocchio Carsten Bormann Laurence

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

, and

Peter

Looker & Jones

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9597

CWT Claims in COSE Headers

June 2024

Authors' Addresses

Tobias Looker
Mattr
Email:

 tobias.looker@mattr.global

Michael B. Jones
Self-Issued Consulting
Email:
URI:

 https://self-issued.info/

 michael_b_jones@hotmail.com

Looker & Jones

Standards Track

Page 6

