Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9713
9171
Standards Track
January 2025
2070-1721
B. Sipos
JHU/APL

RFC 9713
Bundle Protocol Version 7 Administrative Record
Types Registry

Abstract

This document updates RFC 9171 to clarify that Bundle Protocol Version 7 agents are expected to
use the IANA "Bundle Administrative Record Types" registry to identify and document
administrative record types. This document also designates code points for Private and
Experimental Use.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9713
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in effect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Sipos

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9713

BPv7 Admin IANA

January 2025

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Scope

1.2.  Terminology

2.  Administrative Record Types Registry

3.  Security Considerations

4.  IANA Considerations

4.1.  Bundle Administrative Record Types

5.  References

5.1.  Normative References

5.2.  Informative References

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

2

2

3

3

3

3

4

4

4

5

5

[RFC7116]

 defined an IANA registry for administrative record type code

 for use with the Bundle Protocol (BP) Version 6 (BPv6)

An earlier specification
[IANA-BP]
points
Protocol Version 7 (BPv7) was published in
administrative record types but did not update the table to be explicit about which entries
applied to which Bundle Protocol version(s). The BPv7 specification also did not discriminate
between code point reservations and unassigned ranges for administrative record types.

, it identified the IANA registry for

[RFC5050]

[RFC9171]

. When Bundle

This document updates BPv7 to explicitly use the IANA "Bundle Administrative Record Types"
registry as described in Section 2. This document makes a reservation of the zero value for
consistency with BPv6. This document also makes a reservation of high-valued code points for
Private Use and Experimental Use in accordance with
code points.

 to avoid collisions with assigned

[RFC8126]

1.1.  Scope

This document describes updates to the IANA "Bundle Administrative Record Types" registry and
how a BPv7 agent is supposed to use that registry to identify administrative record types.

Sipos

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9713

BPv7 Admin IANA

January 2025

This document does not specify how BPv6 and BPv7 can interoperate when both use the same
code points or how a specific code point is to be interpreted either similarly or differently by
Bundle Protocol versions. The specification for each administrative record type is to define how
the administrative record type relates to each BP version.

1.2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Administrative Record Types Registry

This document updates the requirements in
IANA registry and updates that registry as described in Section 4.1.

Section 6.1 of [RFC9171]

 to specify use of an existing

The code point allocated in Annex D of
avoid a collision, this document adds that allocation to the registry.

[CCSDS-BP]

 was never added to the IANA registry. To

Instead of using the list of types in
 determine which administrative record type code values can be used by the "7" noted in
SHALL
the Bundle Protocol Version column of the IANA "Bundle Administrative Record Types" registry
[IANA-BP]
.

, a BPv7 administrative element

Section 6.1 of [RFC9171]

If an administrative element receives a not-well-formed application data unit (ADU) or an
administrative record type code that is not able to be processed by the element, the record
be ignored by the element. The processing of a received administrative record ADU does not
affect the fact that the bundle itself was delivered to the administrative element or any related
bundle protocol agent processing of (e.g., status reports on) the enveloping bundle.

SHALL

3.  Security Considerations

This document does not define any requirements or structures that introduce new security
considerations.

The existing security considerations of
Administrative Record Types" registry.

[RFC9171]

 still apply when using the IANA "Bundle

4.  IANA Considerations

This specification modifies a BPv6 registry by extending it for BPv7.

Sipos

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9713

BPv7 Admin IANA

January 2025

4.1.  Bundle Administrative Record Types

Within the "Bundle Protocol" registry group
Types" registry has been updated to include a leftmost "Bundle Protocol Version" column. New
entries have been added and existing entries have been updated to include BP versions as in
Table 1. This document makes no changes to the registration procedures for this registry.

, the "Bundle Administrative Record

[IANA-BP]

Bundle Protocol
Version

Value

Description

Reference

6,7

6,7

6

6

7

7

7

0

1

2

3

4

Reserved

Bundle status report

Custody signal

Unassigned

[RFC7116]
9713

 RFC

[RFC5050]
[RFC9171]

[RFC5050]

Aggregate Custody Signal

[CCSDS-BP]

5 - 15

Unassigned

16 - 64383

Unassigned

64384 -
64511

64512 -
65535

Reserved for Experimental
Use

RFC 9713

Reserved for Private Use

RFC 9713

Table 1: Bundle Administrative Record Types

5.  References

5.1.  Normative References

[IANA-BP]

[RFC2119]

[RFC8174]

IANA "Bundle Protocol" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/bundle/>

,

,

.

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Sipos

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9713

BPv7 Admin IANA

January 2025

[RFC9171]

Burleigh, S. Fall, K.
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC9171

, and

E. Birrane, III "Bundle Protocol Version 7" RFC 9171

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9171>

, January 2022,

,

.

5.2.  Informative References

[CCSDS-BP]

[RFC5050]

[RFC7116]

[RFC8126]

Consultative Committee for Space Data Systems "CCSDS Bundle Protocol
Specification" CCSDS Recommended Standard CCSDS 734.2-B-1
2015,

<https://public.ccsds.org/Pubs/734x2b1.pdf>

, September

,

,

,

.

 and

Scott, K.
10.17487/RFC5050

S. Burleigh "Bundle Protocol Specification" RFC 5050 DOI

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5050>

, November 2007,

,

,

.

,

 and

M. Blanchet "Licklider Transmission Protocol (LTP), Compressed

Scott, K.
Bundle Header Encoding (CBHE), and Bundle Protocol IANA Registries" RFC
7116 DOI 10.17487/RFC7116
,
rfc7116>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, February 2014,

,

.

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

, June

Author's Address

Brian Sipos
The Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory
11100 Johns Hopkins Rd.
Laurel MD 20723
United States of America
Email:

brian.sipos+ietf@gmail.com

,

Sipos

Standards Track

Page 5

