Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9806
7866
Standards Track
June 2025
2070-1721
D. Mongrain
Motorola Solutions

RFC 9806
Updates to SIP-Based Media Recording (SIPREC) to
Correct Metadata Media Type

Abstract

The SIP-based Media Recording (SIPREC) protocol is defined by both "Session Initiation Protocol
(SIP) Recording Metadata" (RFC 7865) and "Session Recording Protocol" (RFC 7866).
Unfortunately, both RFCs contradict each other regarding how recording metadata is to be
labeled. In addition, neither RFC registered the new media type. This document updates RFC
7866 to align with RFC 7865 when labeling recording metadata and also registers the media type.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9806
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Mongrain

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9806

Correct SIPREC Metadata Media Type

June 2025

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Updates to RFC 7866

3.  Security Considerations

4.  IANA Considerations

4.1.  Media Type Registration

5.  References

5.1.  Normative References

5.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

2

2

3

3

3

4

4

4

4

4

The SIP-based Media Recording (SIPREC) protocol is defined by
. The
former specifies the use of "application/rs-metadata+xml" when identifying metadata content,
whereas the latter uses "application/rs-metadata". Since
 defines SIPREC metadata, it
was identified as normative, and
This document resolves the erratum.

 was created against

 to report the issue.

[RFC7865]

[RFC7866]

[RFC7866]

[RFC7865]

[Err7987]

 and

In addition, neither document registered the media type with IANA; this document rectifies this
gap.

2.  Updates to RFC 7866

Each instance of the following in

[RFC7866]
:

application/rs-metadata

Is replaced with:

Mongrain

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9806

Correct SIPREC Metadata Media Type

June 2025

application/rs-metadata+xml

3.  Security Considerations

The updates specified in this memo clarify inconsistencies in published documents with regard
to identifying recording metadata. They do not introduce new security considerations beyond
those listed in

[RFC7866]
.

4.  IANA Considerations

4.1.  Media Type Registration

[RFC7865]
media type is to be used when specifying recording metadata in SIPREC.

 defines a media type for use with specifying recording metadata in XML data. This

Type name:

application

Subtype name:

rs-metadata+xml

Required parameters:

N/A

Optional parameters:

N/A

Encoding considerations:

Same as encoding considerations of "application/xml" as specified in

[RFC7303]

.

Security considerations:

N/A

Interoperability considerations:

Please note that

[RFC7866]

 specifies the use of "application/rs-

metadata", which has been replaced by "application/rs-metadata+xml" in RFC 9806.

Published specification:

[RFC7865]

 [RFC9806]

Applications that use this media type:

Session Recording Clients (SRCs) and Session Recording

Servers (SRSs).

Fragment identifier considerations:

N/A

Additional information:

Deprecated alias names for this type:
Magic number(s):
File extension(s):
Macintosh file type code(s):

N/A
N/A

N/A

N/A

Person & email address to contact for further information:

IETF SIPCORE Working Group

(sipcore@ietf.org)

Mongrain

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9806

Correct SIPREC Metadata Media Type

June 2025

Intended usage:

COMMON

Restrictions on usage:

There are no restrictions on where this media type can be used.

Author:

IETF SIPCORE Working Group (sipcore@ietf.org)

Change controller:

IETF

5.  References

5.1.  Normative References

[RFC7303]

[RFC7865]

[RFC7866]

Thompson, H.
RFC7303

 and

C. Lilley "XML Media Types" RFC 7303 DOI 10.17487/

,

,

,

, July 2014,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7303>

.

,

Ravindranath, R. Ravindran, P.
, and
Recording Metadata" RFC 7865 DOI 10.17487/RFC7865
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7865>

,

.

P. Kyzivat "Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)

,

, May 2016,

<https://

,

Portman, L. Lum, H., Ed. Eckel, C. Johnston, A.
, and
Recording Protocol" RFC 7866 DOI 10.17487/RFC7866
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7866>

,

,

,

,

.

A. Hutton "Session
,
, May 2016,

<https://

5.2.  Informative References

[Err7987]

RFC Errata Erratum ID 7987 RFC 7866 <https://www.rfc-editor.org/errata/
eid7987>

,

,

,

.

Acknowledgments

Brian Rosen

Thank you to
 for his guidance in writing my first Internet-Draft using the new tools
and for his thorough review. A sincere thank you to all of the reviewers for their valuable time,
which greatly enhanced this document.

Author's Address

Dan Mongrain
Motorola Solutions
Email:

Dan.Mongrain@MotorolaSolutions.com

Mongrain

Standards Track

Page 4

