Stream:
RFC:
STD:
Obsoletes:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9082
95
7482
Standards Track
June 2021
2070-1721
S. Hollenbeck
Verisign Labs

A. Newton
AWS

RFC 9082
Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP) Query
Format

Abstract

This document describes uniform patterns to construct HTTP URLs that may be used to retrieve
registration information from registries (including both Regional Internet Registries (RIRs) and
Domain Name Registries (DNRs)) using "RESTful" web access patterns. These uniform patterns
deﬁne the query syntax for the Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP). This document
obsoletes RFC 7482.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9082

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9082

RDAP Query Format

June 2021

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Conventions Used in This Document

2.1.  Acronyms and Abbreviations

3.  Path Segment Speciﬁcation

3.1.  Lookup Path Segment Speciﬁcation

3.1.1.  IP Network Path Segment Speciﬁcation

3.1.2.  Autonomous System Path Segment Speciﬁcation

3.1.3.  Domain Path Segment Speciﬁcation

3.1.4.  Nameserver Path Segment Speciﬁcation

3.1.5.  Entity Path Segment Speciﬁcation

3.1.6.  Help Path Segment Speciﬁcation

3.2.  Search Path Segment Speciﬁcation

3.2.1.  Domain Search

3.2.2.  Nameserver Search

3.2.3.  Entity Search

4.  Query Processing

4.1.  Partial String Searching

4.2.  Associated Records

5.  Extensibility

6.  Internationalization Considerations

6.1.  Character Encoding Considerations

7.  IANA Considerations

8.  Security Considerations

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9082

RDAP Query Format

June 2021

Appendix A.  Changes from RFC 7482

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

This document describes a speciﬁcation for querying registration data using a RESTful web
service and uniform query patterns. The service is implemented using the Hypertext Transfer
 and the conventions described in
Protocol (HTTP)
deﬁne the query syntax for the Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP). This document
obsoletes RFC 7482.

. These uniform patterns

[RFC7230]

[RFC7480]

The protocol described in this speciﬁcation is intended to address deﬁciencies with the WHOIS
protocol

 that have been identiﬁed over time, including:

[RFC3912]

•

lack of standardized command structures;

•

lack of standardized output and error structures;

•

lack of support for internationalization and localization; and

•

lack of support for user identiﬁcation, authentication, and access control.

The patterns described in this document purposefully do not encompass all of the methods
employed in the WHOIS and other RESTful web services used by the RIRs and DNRs. The intent of
the patterns described here is to enable queries of:

•

networks by IP address;

•

Autonomous System (AS) numbers by number;

•

reverse DNS metadata by domain;

•

nameservers by name; and

•

entities (such as registrars and contacts) by identiﬁer.

MUST

Server implementations are free to support only a subset of these features depending on local
requirements. Servers
inform clients of unsupported query types. It is also envisioned that each registry will continue
to maintain WHOIS and/or other RESTful web services speciﬁc to their needs and those of their
constituencies, and the information retrieved through the patterns described here may reference
such services.

 return an HTTP 501 (Not Implemented)

 response to

[RFC7231]

Likewise, future IETF speciﬁcations may add additional patterns for additional query types. A
simple pattern namespacing scheme is described in Section 5 to accommodate custom extensions
that will not interfere with the patterns deﬁned in this document or patterns deﬁned in future
IETF speciﬁcations.

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9082

RDAP Query Format

June 2021

WHOIS services, in general, are read-only services. Accordingly, URL
[RFC7231]
speciﬁed in this document are only applicable to the HTTP

[RFC3986]
 GET and HEAD methods.

 patterns

This document does not describe the results or entities returned from issuing the described URLs
with an HTTP GET. The speciﬁcation of these entities is described in

[RFC9083]
.

Additionally, resource management, provisioning, and update functions are out of scope for this
document. Registries have various and divergent methods covering these functions, and it is
unlikely a uniform approach is needed for interoperability.

HTTP contains mechanisms for servers to authenticate clients and for clients to authenticate
servers (from which authorization schemes may be built), so such mechanisms are not described
in this document. Policy, provisioning, and processing of authentication and authorization are
out of scope for this document as deployments will have to make choices based on local criteria.
Supported authentication mechanisms are described in

.
[RFC7481]

2.  Conventions Used in This Document

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.1.  Acronyms and Abbreviations

IDN:

Internationalized Domain Name, a fully-qualiﬁed domain name containing one or more
labels that are intended to include one or more Unicode code points outside the ASCII range
(cf. "domain name", "fully-qualiﬁed domain name", and "internationalized domain name" in
RFC 8499

[RFC8499]

).

IDNA:

Internationalized Domain Names in Applications, a protocol for the handling of IDNs. In

this document, "IDNA" refers speciﬁcally to the version of those speciﬁcations known as
"IDNA2008"

[RFC5890]

.

DNR:

Domain Name Registry or Domain Name Registrar

NFC:

Unicode Normalization Form C

[Unicode-UAX15]

NFKC:

Unicode Normalization Form KC

[Unicode-UAX15]

RDAP:

Registration Data Access Protocol

REST:

Representational State Transfer. The term was ﬁrst described in a doctoral dissertation

[REST]

.

RESTful:

An adjective that describes a service using HTTP and the principles of REST.

RIR:

Regional Internet Registry

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9082

RDAP Query Format

June 2021

3.  Path Segment Speciﬁcation

[RFC7484]

The base URLs used to construct RDAP queries are maintained in an IANA registry (the
"bootstrap registry") described in
base URL from the registry and appending a path segment speciﬁed in either Sections 3.1 or 3.2.
Generally, a registry or other service provider will provide a base URL that identiﬁes the
protocol, host, and port, and this will be used as a base URL that the complete URL is resolved
against, as per Section 5 of RFC 3986
. For example, if the base URL is "https://
example.com/rdap/", all RDAP query URLs will begin with "https://example.com/rdap/".

. Queries are formed by retrieving an appropriate

[RFC3986]

The bootstrap registry does not contain information for query objects that are not part of a
global namespace, including entities and help. A base URL for an associated object is required to
construct a complete query. This limitation can be overcome for entities by using the practice
described in RFC 8521

[RFC8521]

.

For entities, a base URL is retrieved for the service (domain, address, etc.) associated with a given
entity. The query URL is constructed by concatenating the base URL with the entity path segment
speciﬁed in either Sections 3.1.5 or 3.2.3.

For help, a base URL is retrieved for any service (domain, address, etc.) for which additional
information is required. The query URL is constructed by concatenating the base URL with the
help path segment speciﬁed in Section 3.1.6.

3.1.  Lookup Path Segment Speciﬁcation

A simple lookup to determine if an object exists (or not) without returning RDAP-encoded results
can be performed using the HTTP HEAD method as described in

.
Section 4.1 of [RFC7480]

The resource type path segments for exact match lookup are:

'ip':

Used to identify IP networks and associated data referenced using either an IPv4 or IPv6

address.

'autnum':

Used to identify Autonomous System number registrations and associated data

referenced using an asplain Autonomous System number.

'domain':

Used to identify reverse DNS (RIR) or domain name (DNR) information and associated

data referenced using a fully qualiﬁed domain name.

'nameserver':

Used to identify a nameserver information query using a host name.

'entity':

Used to identify an entity information query using a string identiﬁer.

3.1.1.  IP Network Path Segment Speciﬁcation

Syntax:

ip/<IP address> or ip/<CIDR preﬁx>/<CIDR length>

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9082

RDAP Query Format

June 2021

Queries for information about IP networks are of the form /ip/XXX or /ip/XXX/YY where the path
[RFC5952]
segment following 'ip' is either an IPv4 dotted decimal or IPv6
 address (i.e., XXX) or an
[RFC4632]
 notation address block (i.e., XXX/
IPv4 or IPv6 Classless Inter-domain Routing (CIDR)
YY). Semantically, the simpler form using the address can be thought of as a CIDR block with a
preﬁx length of 32 for IPv4 and a preﬁx length of 128 for IPv6. A given speciﬁc address or CIDR
may fall within multiple IP networks in a hierarchy of networks; therefore, this query targets the
"most-speciﬁc" or smallest IP network that completely encompasses it in a hierarchy of IP
networks.

[RFC4291]

[RFC3986]

 as IPv4address and IPv6address ABNF deﬁnitions. Any valid IPv6 text address
 can be used. This includes IPv6 addresses written using with or without

The IPv4 and IPv6 address formats supported in this query are described in Section 3.2.2 of RFC
3986
format
compressed zeros and IPv6 addresses containing embedded IPv4 addresses. The rules to write a
text representation of an IPv6 address
[RFC4007]
RFC 6874

 are
 is not appropriate in this context; therefore, the corresponding syntax extension in
[RFC6874] MUST NOT

. However, the zone_id

 be used, and servers

RECOMMENDED

[RFC5952]

 ignore it.

SHOULD

For example, the following URL would be used to ﬁnd information for the most speciﬁc network
containing 192.0.2.0:

https://example.com/rdap/ip/192.0.2.0

The following URL would be used to ﬁnd information for the most speciﬁc network containing
192.0.2.0/24:

https://example.com/rdap/ip/192.0.2.0/24

The following URL would be used to ﬁnd information for the most speciﬁc network containing
2001:db8::

https://example.com/rdap/ip/2001:db8::

3.1.2.  Autonomous System Path Segment Speciﬁcation

Syntax:

autnum/<autonomous system number>

Queries for information regarding Autonomous System number registrations are of the form /
autnum/XXX where XXX is an asplain Autonomous System number
. In some registries,
registration of Autonomous System numbers is done on an individual number basis, while other
registries may register blocks of Autonomous System numbers. The semantics of this query are
such that if a number falls within a range of registered blocks, the target of the query is the block
registration and that individual number registrations are considered a block of numbers with a
size of 1.

[RFC5396]

For example, the following URL would be used to ﬁnd information describing Autonomous
System number 12 (a number within a range of registered blocks):

https://example.com/rdap/autnum/12

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9082

RDAP Query Format

June 2021

The following URL would be used to ﬁnd information describing 4-byte Autonomous System
number 65538:

https://example.com/rdap/autnum/65538

3.1.3.  Domain Path Segment Speciﬁcation

Syntax:

domain/<domain name>

Queries for domain information are of the form /domain/XXXX, where XXXX is a fully qualiﬁed
(relative to the root) domain name (as speciﬁed in
addr.arpa or ip6.arpa zones (for RIRs) or a fully qualiﬁed domain name in a zone administered
by the server operator (for DNRs). Internationalized Domain Names (IDNs) represented in either
A-label or U-label format
 are also valid domain names. See Section 6.1 for information
on character encoding for the U-label format.

) in either the in-

[RFC1123]

[RFC0952]

[RFC5890]

 and

SHOULD

SHOULD NOT

 be either all A-labels or all U-labels. It is possible for an RDAP client to

 be represented as a mixture of A-labels and U-labels; that is, internationalized

IDNs
labels in an IDN
assemble a query string from multiple independent data sources. Such a client might not be able
to perform conversions between A-labels and U-labels. An RDAP server that receives a query
string with a mixture of A-labels and U-labels
IDNA processing, and proceed with exact-match lookup. In such cases, the response to be
returned to the query source may not match the input from the query source. Alternatively, the
server

 convert all the U-labels to A-labels, perform

 refuse to process the query.

MAY

MAY

The server
form for matching every label is likely to be more reliable.

MAY

 perform the match using either the A-label or U-label form. Using one consistent

The following URL would be used to ﬁnd information describing the zone serving the network
192.0.2/24:

https://example.com/rdap/domain/2.0.192.in-addr.arpa

The following URL would be used to ﬁnd information describing the zone serving the network
2001:db8:1::/48:

https://example.com/rdap/domain/1.0.0.0.8.b.d.0.1.0.0.2.ip6.arpa

The following URL would be used to ﬁnd information for the blah.example.com domain name:

https://example.com/rdap/domain/blah.example.com

The following URL would be used to ﬁnd information for the xn‑‑fo‑5ja.example IDN:

https://example.com/rdap/domain/xn--fo-5ja.example

3.1.4.  Nameserver Path Segment Speciﬁcation

Syntax:

nameserver/<nameserver name>

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9082

RDAP Query Format

June 2021

[RFC1123]

 and
[RFC5890]

The <nameserver name> parameter represents a fully qualiﬁed host name as speciﬁed in
[RFC0952]
. Internationalized names represented in either A-label or U-label
format
the domain name processing instructions speciﬁed in Section 3.1.3. See Section 6.1 for
information on character encoding for the U-label format.

 are also valid nameserver names. IDN processing for nameserver names uses

The following URL would be used to ﬁnd information for the ns1.example.com nameserver:

https://example.com/rdap/nameserver/ns1.example.com

The following URL would be used to ﬁnd information for the ns1.xn‑‑fo-5ja.example nameserver:

https://example.com/rdap/nameserver/ns1.xn--fo-5ja.example

3.1.5.  Entity Path Segment Speciﬁcation

Syntax:

entity/<handle>

The <handle> parameter represents an entity (such as a contact, registrant, or registrar)
identiﬁer whose syntax is speciﬁc to the registration provider. For example, for some DNRs,
contact identiﬁers are speciﬁed in

.
[RFC5733]

[RFC5730]

 and

The following URL would be used to ﬁnd information for the entity associated with handle XXXX:

https://example.com/rdap/entity/XXXX

3.1.6.  Help Path Segment Speciﬁcation

Syntax:

help

The help path segment can be used to request helpful information (command syntax, terms of
service, privacy policy, rate-limiting policy, supported authentication methods, supported
extensions, technical support contact, etc.) from an RDAP server. The response to "help" should
provide basic information that a client needs to successfully use the service. The following URL
would be used to return "help" information:

https://example.com/rdap/help

3.2.  Search Path Segment Speciﬁcation

Pattern matching semantics are described in Section 4.1. The resource type path segments for
search are:

'domains':

Used to identify a domain name information search using a pattern to match a fully

qualiﬁed domain name.

'nameservers':
host name.

Used to identify a nameserver information search using a pattern to match a

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9082

RDAP Query Format

June 2021

'entities': Used to identify an entity information search using a pattern to match a string

identiﬁer.

RDAP search path segments are formed using a concatenation of the plural form of the object
being searched for and an HTTP query string. The HTTP query string is formed using a
concatenation of the question mark character ('?', US-ASCII value 0x003F), a noun representing
the JSON object property associated with the object being searched for, the equal sign character
('=', US-ASCII value 0x003D), and the search pattern (this is in contrast to the more generic HTTP
query string that allows multiple simultaneous parameters). Search pattern query processing is
described more fully in Section 4. For the domain, nameserver, and entity objects described in
this document, the plural object forms are "domains", "nameservers", and "entities".

Detailed results can be retrieved using the HTTP GET method and the path segments speciﬁed
here.

3.2.1.  Domain Search

Syntax:

domains?name=<domain search pattern>

Syntax:

domains?nsLdhName=<nameserver search pattern>

Syntax:

domains?nsIp=<nameserver IP address>

Searches for domain information by name are speciﬁed using this form:

domains?name=XXXX

XXXX is a search pattern representing a domain name in "letters, digits, hyphen" (LDH) format
[RFC5890]
matching the "example*.com" pattern:

. The following URL would be used to ﬁnd DNR information for domain names

https://example.com/rdap/domains?name=example*.com

[RFC5890]

IDNs in U-label format
 can also be used as search patterns (see Section 4). Searches for
these names are of the form /domains?name=XXXX, where XXXX is a search pattern representing
a domain name in U-label format
encoding for the U-label format.

. See Section 6.1 for information on character

[RFC5890]

Searches for domain information by nameserver name are speciﬁed using this form:

domains?nsLdhName=YYYY

YYYY is a search pattern representing a host name in "letters, digits, hyphen" format
.
[RFC5890]
The following URL would be used to search for domains delegated to nameservers matching the
"ns1.example*.com" pattern:

https://example.com/rdap/domains?nsLdhName=ns1.example*.com

Searches for domain information by nameserver IP address are speciﬁed using this form:

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9082

RDAP Query Format

June 2021

domains?nsIp=ZZZZ

ZZZZ is an IPv4
for domains that have been delegated to nameservers that resolve to the "192.0.2.0" address:

 address. The following URL would be used to search

[RFC5952]

[RFC1166]

 or IPv6

https://example.com/rdap/domains?nsIp=192.0.2.0

3.2.2.  Nameserver Search

Syntax:

nameservers?name=<nameserver search pattern>

Syntax:

nameservers?ip=<nameserver IP address>

Searches for nameserver information by nameserver name are speciﬁed using this form:

nameservers?name=XXXX

XXXX is a search pattern representing a host name in "letters, digits, hyphen" format
The following URL would be used to ﬁnd information for nameserver names matching the
"ns1.example*.com" pattern:

[RFC5890]

.

https://example.com/rdap/nameservers?name=ns1.example*.com

Internationalized nameserver names in U-label format
 can also be used as search
patterns (see Section 4). Searches for these names are of the form /nameservers?name=XXXX,
where XXXX is a search pattern representing a nameserver name in U-label format
.
[RFC5890]
See Section 6.1 for information on character encoding for the U-label format.

[RFC5890]

Searches for nameserver information by nameserver IP address are speciﬁed using this form:

nameservers?ip=YYYY

YYYY is an IPv4
 or IPv6
for nameserver names that resolve to the "192.0.2.0" address:

[RFC1166]

[RFC5952]

 address. The following URL would be used to search

https://example.com/rdap/nameservers?ip=192.0.2.0

3.2.3.  Entity Search

Syntax:

entities?fn=<entity name search pattern>

Syntax:

entities?handle=<entity handle search pattern>

Searches for entity information by name are speciﬁed using this form:

entities?fn=XXXX

XXXX is a search pattern representing the "fn" property of an entity (such as a contact, registrant,
or registrar) name as described in
ﬁnd information for entity names matching the "Bobby Joe*" pattern:

. The following URL would be used to

Section 5.1 of [RFC9083]

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9082

RDAP Query Format

June 2021

https://example.com/rdap/entities?fn=Bobby%20Joe*

Searches for entity information by handle are speciﬁed using this form:

entities?handle=XXXX

XXXX is a search pattern representing an entity (such as a contact, registrant, or registrar)
identiﬁer whose syntax is speciﬁc to the registration provider. The following URL would be used
to ﬁnd information for entity handles matching the "CID-40*" pattern:

https://example.com/rdap/entities?handle=CID-40*

MUST

URLs
"Bobby Joe*" is encoded to "Bobby%20Joe*".

 be properly encoded according to the rules of

[RFC3986]

. In the example above,

4.  Query Processing

Servers indicate the success or failure of query processing by returning an appropriate HTTP
response code to the client. Response codes not speciﬁcally identiﬁed in this document are
described in

[RFC7480]

.

4.1.  Partial String Searching

Partial string searching uses the asterisk ('*', US-ASCII value 0x2A) character to match zero or
more trailing characters. A character string representing a domain label suﬃx
concatenated to the end of the search pattern to limit the scope of the search. For example, the
search pattern "exam*" will match "example.com" and "example.net". The search pattern
"exam*.com" will match "example.com". If an asterisk appears in a search string, any label that
contains the non-asterisk characters in sequence plus zero or more characters in sequence in
place of the asterisk would match. A partial string search
asterisk. Additional pattern matching processing is beyond the scope of this speciﬁcation.

 include more than one

MUST NOT

MAY

 be

If a server receives a search request but cannot process the request because it does not support a
particular style of partial match searching, it
 return an HTTP 422 (Unprocessable Entity)
SHOULD
 response (unless another response code is more appropriate based on a server's policy
[RFC4918]
settings) to note that search functionality is supported, but this particular query cannot be
processed. When returning a 422 error, the server
speciﬁed in
.
[RFC7480]

 if the requested media type is one that is speciﬁed in

 also return an error response body as

Section 6 of [RFC9083]

MAY

Partial matching is not feasible across combinations of Unicode characters because Unicode
characters can be combined with each other. Servers
of Unicode characters where a legal combination is possible. It should be noted, though, that it
may not always be possible to detect cases where a character could have been combined with
another character, but was not, because characters can be combined in many diﬀerent ways.

 partially match combinations

SHOULD NOT

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9082

RDAP Query Format

June 2021

SHOULD NOT

 submit a partial match search of Unicode characters where a Unicode

Clients
character may be legally combined with another Unicode character or characters. Partial match
searches with incomplete combinations of characters where a character must be combined with
another character or characters are invalid. Partial match searches with characters that may be
combined with another character or characters are to be considered non-combined characters
(that is, if character x may be combined with character y but character y is not submitted in the
search string, then character x is a complete character and no combinations of character x are to
be searched).

4.2.  Associated Records

Conceptually, any query-matching record in a server's database might be a member of a set of
related records, related in some fashion as deﬁned by the server -- for example, variants of an
IDN. The entire set ought to be considered as candidates for inclusion when constructing the
response. However, the construction of the ﬁnal response needs to be mindful of privacy and
other data-releasing policies when assembling the RDAP response set.

Note too that due to the nature of searching, there may be a list of query-matching records. Each
one of those is subject to being a member of a set as described in the previous paragraph. What is
ultimately returned in a response will be the union of all the sets that has been ﬁltered by
whatever policies are in place.

Note that this model includes arrangements for associated names, including those that are linked
by policy mechanisms and names bound together for some other purposes. Note also that
returning information that was not explicitly selected by an exact-match lookup, including
additional names that match a relatively fuzzy search as well as lists of names that are linked
together, may cause privacy issues.

Note that there might not be a single, static information return policy that applies to all clients
equally. Client identity and associated authorizations can be a relevant factor in determining
how broad the response set will be for any particular query.

5.  Extensibility

This document describes path segment speciﬁcations for a limited number of objects commonly
registered in both RIRs and DNRs. It does not attempt to describe path segments for all of the
objects registered in all registries. Custom path segments can be created for objects not speciﬁed
here using the process described in Section 6 of "HTTP Usage in the Registration Data Access
Protocol (RDAP)"

[RFC7480]

.

Custom path segments can be created by preﬁxing the segment with a unique identiﬁer followed
by an underscore character (0x5F). For example, a custom entity path segment could be created
by preﬁxing "entity" with "custom_", producing "custom_entity". Servers
appropriate failure status code for a request with an unrecognized path segment.

 return an

MUST

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9082

RDAP Query Format

June 2021

6.  Internationalization Considerations

There is value in supporting the ability to submit either a U-label (Unicode form of an IDN label)
or an A-label (US-ASCII form of an IDN label) as a query argument to an RDAP service. Clients
capable of processing non-US-ASCII characters may prefer a U-label since this is more visually
recognizable and familiar than A-label strings, but clients using programmatic interfaces might
ﬁnd it easier to submit and display A-labels if they are unable to input U-labels with their
keyboard conﬁguration. Both query forms are acceptable.

Internationalized domain and nameserver names can contain character variants and variant
labels as described in
nameserver names
"JSON Responses for the Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP)"

. Clients that support queries for internationalized domain and

 accept service provider responses that describe variants as speciﬁed in

[RFC4290]

[RFC9083]

MUST

.

6.1.  Character Encoding Considerations

Servers can expect to receive search patterns from clients that contain character strings encoded
in diﬀerent forms supported by HTTP. It is entirely possible to apply ﬁlters and normalization
rules to search patterns prior to making character comparisons, but this type of processing is
more typically needed to determine the validity of registered strings than to match patterns.

An RDAP client submitting a query string containing non-US-ASCII characters converts such
strings into Unicode in UTF-8 encoding. It then performs any local case mapping deemed
necessary. Strings are normalized using Normalization Form C (NFC)
clients might not be able to do this reliably. UTF-8 encoded strings are then appropriately
percent-encoded

 in the query URL.

[Unicode-UAX15]

[RFC3986]

; note that

After parsing any percent-encoding, an RDAP server treats each query string as Unicode in UTF-8
encoding. If a string is not valid UTF-8, the server can immediately stop processing the query and
return an HTTP 400 (Bad Request) response.

When processing queries, there is a diﬀerence in handling DNS names, including those with
putative U-labels, and everything else. DNS names are treated according to the DNS matching
rules as described in Section 3.1 of RFC 1035
 for Non-Reserved LDH (NR-LDH) labels
and the matching rules described in Section 5.4 of RFC 5891
 for U-labels. Matching of
DNS names proceeds one label at a time because it is possible for a combination of U-labels and
NR-LDH labels to be found in a single domain or host name. The determination of whether a
label is a U-label or an NR-LDH label is based on whether the label contains any characters
outside of the US-ASCII letters, digits, or hyphen (the so-called LDH rule).

[RFC1035]

[RFC5891]

For everything else, servers map fullwidth and halfwidth characters to their decomposition
equivalents. Servers convert strings to the same coded character set of the target data that is to
be looked up or searched, and each string is normalized using the same normalization that was
used on the target data. In general, storage of strings as Unicode is

RECOMMENDED

. For the

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9082

RDAP Query Format

June 2021

purposes of comparison, Normalization Form KC (NFKC)
used to maximize predictability and the number of matches. Note the use of case-folded NFKC as
opposed to NFC in this case.

 with case folding is

[Unicode-UAX15]

7.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

8.  Security Considerations

Security services for the operations speciﬁed in this document are described in "Security Services
for the Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP)"

[RFC7481]

.

Search functionality typically requires more server resources (such as memory, CPU cycles, and
network bandwidth) when compared to basic lookup functionality. This increases the risk of
server resource exhaustion and subsequent denial of service due to abuse. This risk can be
mitigated by developing and implementing controls to restrict search functionality to identiﬁed
and authorized clients. If those clients behave badly, their search privileges can be suspended or
revoked. Rate limiting as described in Section 5.5 of "HTTP Usage in the Registration Data Access
Protocol (RDAP)"
Server operators can also reduce their risk by restricting the amount of information returned in
response to a search request.

 can also be used to control the rate of received search requests.

[RFC7480]

Search functionality also increases the privacy risk of disclosing object relationships that might
not otherwise be obvious. For example, a search that returns IDN variants
 that do not
explicitly match a client-provided search pattern can disclose information about registered
domain names that might not be otherwise available. Implementers need to consider the policy
and privacy implications of returning information that was not explicitly requested.

[RFC6927]

Note that there might not be a single, static information return policy that applies to all clients
equally. Client identity and associated authorizations can be a relevant factor in determining
how broad the response set will be for any particular query.

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[RFC0952]

[RFC1035]

Harrenstien, K. Stahl, M.
,
RFC 952 DOI 10.17487/RFC0952
rfc952>

, and

,
.

E. Feinler "DoD Internet host table speciﬁcation"
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, October 1985,

,

,
Mockapetris, P. "Domain names - implementation and speciﬁcation" STD 13
RFC 1035 DOI 10.17487/RFC1035
info/rfc1035>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, November 1987,

,

.

,

,

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9082

RDAP Query Format

June 2021

[RFC1123]

[RFC1166]

[RFC2119]

[RFC3986]

[RFC4291]

[RFC4632]

[RFC4918]

[RFC5396]

[RFC5730]

[RFC5733]

[RFC5890]

,

Braden, R., Ed. "Requirements for Internet Hosts - Application and Support"
STD 3 RFC 1123 DOI 10.17487/RFC1123
editor.org/info/rfc1123>

<https://www.rfc-

, October 1989,

,

,

.

,

Kirkpatrick, S. Stahl, M.
10.17487/RFC1166

, and
, July 1990,

,

M. Recker "Internet numbers" RFC 1166 DOI
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1166>
.

,

,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

, and
Berners-Lee, T. Fielding, R.
Generic Syntax" STD 66 RFC 3986 DOI 10.17487/RFC3986
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3986>

,

,

,

,

.

L. Masinter "Uniform Resource Identiﬁer (URI):

, January 2005,

Hinden, R.
10.17487/RFC4291

S. Deering "IP Version 6 Addressing Architecture" RFC 4291 DOI

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4291>

,
, February 2006,

 and

,

 and

T. Li "Classless Inter-domain Routing (CIDR): The Internet Address

Fuller, V.
Assignment and Aggregation Plan" BCP 122 RFC 4632 DOI 10.17487/RFC4632
August 2006,

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4632>

,

,

,

,

,

Dusseault, L., Ed. "HTTP Extensions for Web Distributed Authoring and
,
Versioning (WebDAV)" RFC 4918 DOI 10.17487/RFC4918
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4918>

, June 2007,

,

<https://

Huston, G.
(AS) Numbers" RFC 5396 DOI 10.17487/RFC5396
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5396>

 and
G. Michaelson "Textual Representation of Autonomous System
,

, December 2008,

<https://

,

,

.

Hollenbeck, S. "Extensible Provisioning Protocol (EPP)" STD 69 RFC 5730 DOI
10.17487/RFC5730

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5730>

, August 2009,

,
.

,

,

,

,

Hollenbeck, S. "Extensible Provisioning Protocol (EPP) Contact Mapping" STD
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/
69 RFC 5733 DOI 10.17487/RFC5733
.
info/rfc5733>

, August 2009,

,

,

,

Klensin, J. "Internationalized Domain Names for Applications (IDNA):
Deﬁnitions and Document Framework" RFC 5890 DOI 10.17487/RFC5890
August 2010,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5890>

,

,

.

,

[RFC5891]

,
Klensin, J. "Internationalized Domain Names in Applications (IDNA): Protocol"
, August 2010,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 5891 DOI 10.17487/RFC5891
rfc5891>

,
,
.

[RFC5952]

M. Kawashima "A Recommendation for IPv6 Address Text

 and
Kawamura, S.
,
Representation" RFC 5952 DOI 10.17487/RFC5952
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5952>

,

,

.

, August 2010,

<https://

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9082

RDAP Query Format

June 2021

[RFC7230]

[RFC7231]

[RFC7480]

[RFC7481]

[RFC7484]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8499]

[RFC9083]

 and

Fielding, R., Ed.
Message Syntax and Routing" RFC 7230 DOI 10.17487/RFC7230
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7230>

J. Reschke, Ed. "Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1):
, June 2014,

,

,

.

 and

Fielding, R., Ed.
Semantics and Content" RFC 7231 DOI 10.17487/RFC7231
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7231>

,
,
.

,

J. Reschke, Ed. "Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1):

, June 2014,

<https://

,
Newton, A. Ellacott, B.
,
Access Protocol (RDAP)" STD 95 RFC 7480 DOI 10.17487/RFC7480
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7480>

N. Kong "HTTP Usage in the Registration Data

, and
,

,
.

,

, March 2015,

 and
Hollenbeck, S.
,
Protocol (RDAP)" STD 95 RFC 7481 DOI 10.17487/RFC7481
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7481>

,

,

.

,

N. Kong "Security Services for the Registration Data Access

, March 2015,

<https://

,

Blanchet, M. "Finding the Authoritative Registration Data (RDAP) Service" RFC
,
7484 DOI 10.17487/RFC7484
rfc7484>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, March 2015,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

,
Hoﬀman, P. Sullivan, A.
,
8499 DOI 10.17487/RFC8499
rfc8499>

, and

.

K. Fujiwara "DNS Terminology" BCP 219 RFC
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, January 2019,

,

,

,

 and
,
Hollenbeck, S.
,
Protocol (RDAP)" STD 95 RFC 9083 DOI 10.17487/RFC9083
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9083>

,

,

.

A. Newton "JSON Responses for the Registration Data Access

, June 2021,

<https://

[Unicode-UAX15]

The Unicode Consortium "Unicode Standard Annex #15: Unicode

,

Normalization Forms"
>

.

, September 2013,

<https://www.unicode.org/reports/tr15/

9.2.  Informative References

[REST]

[RFC3912]

[RFC4007]

,

Fielding, R. "Architectural Styles and the Design of Network-based Software
Architectures" Ph.D. Dissertation, University of California, Irvine
www.ics.uci.edu/~ﬁelding/pubs/dissertation/ﬁelding_dissertation.pdf>

, 2000,
.

,

<https://

Daigle, L. "WHOIS Protocol Speciﬁcation" RFC 3912 DOI 10.17487/RFC3912
September 2004,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3912>

.

,

,

,

,

,

, and
,
Deering, S. Haberman, B. Jinmei, T. Nordmark, E.
,
Address Architecture" RFC 4007 DOI 10.17487/RFC4007
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4007>
.

,

,

,
B. Zill "IPv6 Scoped
, March 2005,

<https://

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9082

RDAP Query Format

June 2021

[RFC4290]

[RFC6874]

[RFC6927]

[RFC8521]

,

Klensin, J. "Suggested Practices for Registration of Internationalized Domain
Names (IDN)" RFC 4290 DOI 10.17487/RFC4290
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4290>

, December 2005,

<https://

,

.

Carpenter, B. Cheshire, S.
,
Address Literals and Uniform Resource Identiﬁers" RFC 6874 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6874

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6874>

R. Hinden "Representing IPv6 Zone Identiﬁers in

, February 2013,

, and

,

,

,

.

 and

,
Levine, J.
,
Level Domains" RFC 6927 DOI 10.17487/RFC6927
.
editor.org/info/rfc6927>

P. Hoﬀman "Variants in Second-Level Names Registered in Top-
<https://www.rfc-

, May 2013,

,

Hollenbeck, S.
Tagging" BCP 221 RFC 8521 DOI 10.17487/RFC8521
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8521>

 and
,

,

.

,

,

A. Newton "Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP) Object

, November 2018,

<https://

Appendix A.  Changes from RFC 7482

•

Addressed known errata.

•

Addressed other reported clariﬁcations and corrections: IDN, IDNA, and DNR deﬁnitions.
Noted that registrars are entities. Added a reference to RFC 8521 to address the bootstrap
registry limitation. Removed extraneous "...". Clariﬁed HTTP query string, search pattern,
name server search, domain label suﬃx, and asterisk search.

•

Addressed "The HTTP query string" clariﬁcation.

•

Modiﬁed coauthor address.

•

Updated references to RFC 7483 to RFC 9083.

•

Added an IANA Considerations section. Changed references to use HTTPS for targets.

•

Changed "XXXX is a search pattern representing the "FN" property of an entity (such as a
contact, registrant, or registrar) name as speciﬁed in Section 5.1" to "Changed "XXXX is a
search pattern representing the "fn" property of an entity (such as a contact, registrant, or
registrar) name as described in Section 5.1".

•

Added acknowledgments.

•

Changed "The intent of the patterns described here are to enable queries" to "The intent of
the patterns described here is to enable queries".

•

Changed "the corresponding syntax extension in RFC 6874
servers are to ignore it if possible" to "the corresponding syntax extension in RFC 6874
[RFC6874] MUST NOT

 be used, and servers

[RFC6874] MUST NOT

 ignore it".

SHOULD

 be used, and

•

Changed "Only a single asterisk is allowed for a partial string search" to "A partial string
search

 include more than one asterisk".

MUST NOT

•

Changed "Clients should avoid submitting a partial match search of Unicode characters
where a Unicode character may be legally combined with another Unicode character or
characters" to "Clients
 submit a partial match search of Unicode characters
where a Unicode character may be legally combined with another Unicode character or
characters".

SHOULD NOT

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9082

RDAP Query Format

June 2021

•

Changed description of nameserver IP address "search pattern" in Sections 3.2.1 and 3.2.2.

•

IESG review feedback: Added "obsoletes 7482" to the headers, Abstract, and Introduction.
Changed "IETF standards" to "IETF speciﬁcations" and "Therefore" to "Accordingly" in Section
1. Updated the BCP 14 boilerplate. Added deﬁnition of "bootstrap registry" and changed
"concatenating ... to" to "concatenating ... with" in Section 3. Changed "bitmask length" to
"preﬁx length" and "2001:db8::0" to "2001:db8::" in Section 3.1.1. Added "in contrast to the
more generic HTTP query string that admits multiple simultaneous parameters" in Section
 in Section
3.2. Changed "0x002A" to "0x2A" in Section 4.1. Clariﬁed use of HTTP 422
4.1.

SHOULD

Acknowledgments

This document is derived from original work on RIR query formats developed by
Ellacott
 of LACNIC,
Newton
described by

 of APNIC,
 of ARIN. Additionally, this document incorporates DNR query formats originally

 of the RIPE NCC, and

Scott Hollenbeck

Arturo L. Servin

Francisco Arias

Kaveh Ranjbar

 of ICANN and

Steve Sheng

 and

Byron J.

 of Verisign Labs.

Andrew L.

Francisco Arias Marc Blanchet Ernie Dainow Jean-Philippe Dionne Byron J. Ellacott

The authors would like to acknowledge the following individuals for their contributions to this
document:
Behnam Esfahbod John Klensin John Levine Edward Lewis Mario Loﬀredo Patrick Mevzek
,
,
Mark Nottingham Kaveh Ranjbar Arturo L. Servin Steve Sheng Jasdip Singh
, and
Sullivan
.

Andrew

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Authors' Addresses

Scott Hollenbeck
Verisign Labs
12061 Bluemont Way
Reston VA 20190
United States of America
Email:
URI:

,

 shollenbeck@verisign.com
 https://www.verisignlabs.com/

Andy Newton
Amazon Web Services, Inc.
13200 Woodland Park Road
Herndon VA 20171
,
United States of America
Email:

 andy@hxr.us

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 18

