Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9541
Standards Track
March 2024
2070-1721
J. Rabadan,
Nokia

S. Sathappan
Nokia

 Ed.

K. Nagaraj
Nokia

M. Miyake
Softbank

T. Matsuda
Softbank

RFC 9541
Flush Mechanism for Customer MAC Addresses
Based on Service Instance Identifier (I-SID) in
Provider Backbone Bridging EVPN (PBB-EVPN)

Abstract

Provider Backbone Bridging (PBB) can be combined with Ethernet Virtual Private Networks
(EVPNs) to deploy Ethernet Local Area Network (E-LAN) services in large Multiprotocol Label
Switching (MPLS) networks. That combination is what we refer to as "PBB-EVPN." Single-Active
multihoming and per Service Instance Identifier (I-SID) load-balancing can be provided to access
devices and aggregation networks. In order to speed up the network convergence in case of
failures on Single-Active multihomed Ethernet Segments (ESs), PBB-EVPN defines a flush
mechanism for Customer MACs (C-MACs) called "C-MAC flush" that works for different Ethernet
Segment Backbone MAC (B-MAC) address allocation models. This document complements those
C-MAC flush procedures for cases in which no PBB-EVPN ESs are defined (i.e., the attachment
circuit is associated with a zero Ethernet Segment Identifier (ESI)) and the C-MAC flush requires
I-SID-level granularity.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9541
.

Rabadan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9541

PBB-EVPN I-SID-Based C-MAC Flush

March 2024

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in effect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Abbreviations

1.2.  Terminology and Conventions

2.  Solution Requirements

3.  EVPN BGP Encoding for I-SID-Based C-MAC Flush

4.  Solution Description

4.1.  I-SID-Based C-MAC Flush Activation Procedures

4.2.  C-MAC Flush Generation

4.3.  C-MAC Flush Process upon Receiving a C-MAC Flush Notification

5.  Conclusions

6.  Security Considerations

7.  IANA Considerations

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

8.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

3

5

5

6

6

8

8

9

9

9

10

10

10

10

10

11

11

Rabadan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9541

PBB-EVPN I-SID-Based C-MAC Flush

March 2024

1.  Introduction

[RFC7623]
 defines how Provider Backbone Bridging (PBB) can be combined with Ethernet Virtual
Private Networks (EVPNs) to deploy E-LAN services in very large MPLS networks.
 also
describes how Single-Active multihoming and per-I-SID load-balancing can be provided to access
devices and aggregation networks. When Access Ethernet and/or MPLS networks exist,
[EVPN-
VIRTUAL-ES]
 describes how virtual Ethernet Segments (ESs) can be associated with a group of
Ethernet Virtual Circuits (EVCs) or even pseudowires (PWs). In order to speed up the network
convergence in case of failures on Single-Active multihomed ESs,
MAC flush mechanism that works for different ES B-MAC address allocation models.

 defines a Customer

[RFC7623]

[RFC7623]

In some cases, the administrative entities that manage the access devices or aggregation
networks do not demand multihomed ESs from the PBB-EVPN provider, but simply demand
multiple single-homed ESs. Single-homed ESs use null ESIs, whereas multihomed ESs use non-
null ESIs. If using single-homed ESs, the PBB-EVPN network is no longer aware of the
redundancy offered by the access administrative entity. Figure 1 shows an example where the
PBB-EVPN network provides four different Attachment Circuits (ACs) for I-SID1, with those ACs
not being part of any ES or virtual ES. (Therefore, they are referred to as null virtual Ethernet
Segments.)

<----G.8032----><--PBB-EVPN Network-----><----MPLS---->
     Access          MPLS                Access
      Ring                               Network
I-SID1      ESI +------+         +------+
+----+      null| PE1  |---------| PE3  |
|CE1 |----------|B-MAC1|         |B-MAC3| ESI null
+----+    active|      |         |      |----+ PW
  |             +------+         +------+     \active
  |               |                 |          \  +----+
  |               |                 |           ==|CE3 |I-SID1
  |               |                 |          /  +----+
  |standby  ESI +------+         +------+     / PW
+----+      null| PE2  |         | PE4  |----+ standby
|CE2 |----------|B-MAC2|         |B-MAC4| ESI null
+----+    active|      |---------|      |
I-SID1          +------+         +------+

Figure 1: PBB-EVPN and Non-ES-Based Redundancy

In the example in Figure 1, CE1, CE2, and CE3 are attached to the same service, identified by I-
SID1, in the PBB-EVPN PEs. CE1 and CE2 are connected to the PEs via "Ethernet ring protection
, and their ACs to PE1 and PE2 are represented by a port and
switching" as specified in
VLAN identifier. CE3 is dual-homed to PE3 and PE4 through an active/standby PW, and its AC to
the PEs is represented by a PW. Each of the four PEs uses a dedicated Backbone MAC address as a
source MAC address (B-MAC1, B-MAC2, B-MAC3, and B-MAC4, respectively) when encapsulating
customer frames in PBB packets and forwarding those PBB packets to the remote PEs as per

[G.8032]

Rabadan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9541

PBB-EVPN I-SID-Based C-MAC Flush

March 2024

. There are no multihomed ESs defined in the PBB-EVPN network of the example; that

[RFC7623]
is why the four ACs in Figure 1 show the text "ESI null", which means the Ethernet Segment
Identifier on those ACs is zero. Since there are no multihomed ESs defined, the PEs keep their ACs
active as long as the physical connectivity is established and the CEs are responsible for
managing the redundancy, avoiding loops, and providing per-I-SID load-balancing to the PBB-
EVPN network. Examples of CEs managing their own redundancy are described in
[RFC4762]

 for active/standby PWs.

[G.8032]

, or

For instance, in normal conditions, CE2 will block its link to CE1 and CE3 will block its
forwarding path to PE4. In this situation, a failure in one of the redundant ACs will trigger the
CEs to start using their redundant paths; however, those failures will not trigger any C-MAC flush
procedures in the PEs that implement
multihoming procedures. For example:

, since the PEs are not using the PBB-EVPN

[RFC7623]

•

If the active PW from CE3 (to PE3) fails and the failure is due to the entire PE3 node failing,
then the procedures in
associated with B-MAC3 (the B-MAC of PE3). In this case, CE3 detects the fault due to the PW
going operationally down.

 guarantee that all the remote PEs flush all the C-MACs

[RFC7623]

•

However, if the active PW from CE3 (to PE3) fails (but PE3 is still operationally up), following
the procedures in
the remote PEs will continue pointing at PE3's B-MAC to reach CE3's C-MACs, until the C-
MACs age out in the I-SID1 forwarding tables. In this case, PE3 may use any of the existing
PW notifications so that CE3 switches the active PW to PE4.

, neither PE3 nor PE4 issue a C-MAC flush message. Therefore,

[RFC7623]

•

The same issue is exposed when the active PW from CE3 switches over from PE3 to PE4 due
to a manual operation on CE3; that is, neither PE3 nor PE4 trigger any C-MAC flush
notification and the remote PEs continue sending the traffic to PE3 until the C-MACs age out.

 provides a C-MAC flush solution based on a shared B-MAC update along with the MAC

[RFC7623]
Mobility extended community where the sequence number is incremented. However, the
procedure is only used along with multihomed ESs. Even if that procedure could be used for null
 would result
ESs, as in the example of Figure 1, the Customer MAC flush procedure in
in unnecessary flushing of unaffected I-SIDs on the remote PEs, and subsequent flooding of
unknown unicast traffic in the network. For instance, in the case that CE3 switches its active PW
over to PE4, a potential solution reusing the existing C-MAC flush notifications in
 is for
PE3 to issue an update for the MAC/IP Advertisement route of B-MAC3 with a higher sequence
number. However, this update would cause unnecessary Customer MAC flushing for all the I-
SIDs attached to PE3 (supposing multiple I-SIDs in PE3) rather than for only I-SID1.

[RFC7623]

[RFC7623]

This document describes an extension of the Customer MAC flush procedures in
that in the failure example above, PE3 can trigger a Customer MAC flush notification that makes
PE1, PE2, and PE4 flush all the Customer MACs associated with PE3's B-MAC3 and (only) I-SID1. In
order to do so, this specification introduces the encoding of the I-SID in the MAC/IP
Advertisement routes advertised for the B-MACs. The C-MAC flush procedure explained in this
document is referred to as "PBB-EVPN I-SID-based C-MAC flush" and can be used in PBB-EVPN
networks with null or non-null (virtual) ESs.

[RFC7623]

, so

Rabadan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9541

PBB-EVPN I-SID-Based C-MAC Flush

March 2024

This specification assumes that the reader is familiar with the procedures in

[RFC7623]
.

1.1.  Abbreviations

AC:

Attachment Circuit

B-MAC:

Backbone MAC

CE:

Customer Edge

C-MAC:

Customer MAC

ES:

Ethernet Segment

ESI:

Ethernet Segment Identifier

EVI:

EVPN Instance

EVPN:

Ethernet Virtual Private Network (as in

[RFC7432]

)

I-SID:

Service Instance Identifier

MAC:

Media Access Control

MAC-VRF:

MAC Virtual Routing and Forwarding

PBB-EVPN:

Provider Backbone Bridging and EVPN (as in

[RFC7623]

)

PE:

Provider Edge

1.2.  Terminology and Conventions

Familiarity with the terminology in

[RFC7623]

 is expected.

B-MAC/0 route:

This is an EVPN MAC/IP Advertisement route that uses a B-MAC in the MAC

address field and a zero Ethernet Tag ID.

B-MAC/I-SID route:

This is an EVPN MAC/IP Advertisement route that uses a B-MAC in the MAC

address field and an I-SID in the Ethernet Tag field. It is used to notify remote PEs about the
required C-MAC flush procedure for the C-MACs associated with the advertised B-MAC and I-
SID.

G.8032:

Refers to Ethernet ring protection switching as described in

[G.8032]

.

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

Rabadan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9541

PBB-EVPN I-SID-Based C-MAC Flush

March 2024

2.  Solution Requirements

The following requirements are followed by the C-MAC flush solution described in this
document:

a.

MUST

The solution
(Attachment Circuits not associated with an ES; that is, their corresponding ESI is zero) when
the access device or access network is responsible for the redundancy.

 prevent packet-loss scenarios in case of failures on null ES ACs

b.

This extension described in this document
virtual ESs, irrespective of the PE B-MAC address assignment (dedicated per-ES B-MAC or
shared B-MAC, as in

 work with Single-Active non-null ESs and

[RFC7623]

MUST

).

c.

In case of failure on the egress PE, the solution
the B-MAC and I-SID granularity level.

MUST

 provide a C-MAC flush notification at

d.

MUST

The solution
use Route Reflectors (RRs). MAC flushing needs to be provided to all affected I-SIDs in spite of
the BGP flush notification messages being aggregated at the RR.

 provide a reliable C-MAC flush notification in PBB-EVPN networks that

e.

The solution
this specification.

MUST

 coexist in

[RFC7623]

 networks where there are PEs that do not support

f.

The solution
per-I-SID basis (as opposed to always being enabled for all the I-SIDs).

 be enabled or disabled by an administrative option on a per-PE and

SHOULD

3.  EVPN BGP Encoding for I-SID-Based C-MAC Flush

The solution does not use any new BGP attributes but reuses the MAC Mobility extended
community as an indication of C-MAC flush (as in
) and encodes the I-SID in the
Ethernet Tag field of the EVPN MAC/IP advertisement route. As a reference, Figure 2 shows the
MAC Mobility extended community and the EVPN MAC/IP advertisement route that are used as
specified in

 and used in this document as a C-MAC flush notification message.

[RFC7432]

[RFC7623]

Rabadan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9541

PBB-EVPN I-SID-Based C-MAC Flush

March 2024

0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| Type=0x06     | Sub-Type=0x03 |   Flags       |   Reserved=0  |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                       Sequence Number                         |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

            +---------------------------------------+
            |  Route Distinguisher                  |
            +---------------------------------------+
            |  ESI = 0                              |
            +---------------------------------------+
            |  Ethernet Tag ID = I-SID              |
            +---------------------------------------+
            |  MAC Address Length = 48              |
            +---------------------------------------+
            |  B-MAC Address                        |
            +---------------------------------------+
            |  IP Address Length = 0                |
            +---------------------------------------+
            |  MPLS Label1                          |
            +---------------------------------------+

Figure 2: C-MAC Flush Notification Encoding: B-MAC/I-SID Route

Where:

•

The route's route distinguisher and route targets are the ones corresponding to its EVI.
Alternatively to the EVI's Route Target (RT), the route
from the Ethernet Tag (I-SID) instead.
Advertisement routes can be advertised along with the EVI RT or an RT that is derived from
the I-SID.

 describes how the EVPN MAC/IP

 be tagged with an RT auto-derived

[RFC7623]

MAY

•

The Ethernet Tag encodes the I-SID. This indicates to the PE that it must flush the C-MACs for
that encoded I-SID, upon reception of the route.

•

The MAC address field encodes the B-MAC address. This indicates to the PE that it must flush
the C-MACs associated with that encoded B-MAC, upon reception of the route.

•

, where an increment in the
The MAC Mobility extended community is used as in
sequence number between two updates for the same B-MAC/I-SID will be interpreted as a C-
MAC flush notification for the corresponding B-MAC and I-SID.

[RFC7623]

All the other fields are set and used as defined in
route as the "B-MAC/I-SID route", as opposed to the EVPN MAC/IP Advertisement route used in
[RFC7623]
the term "B-MAC/0 route" to represent a B-MAC route advertised with an Ethernet Tag ID = 0.

 that contains a specific B-MAC and the Ethernet Tag ID set to zero. This document uses

. This document will refer to this

[RFC7623]

Note that this B-MAC/I-SID route will be accepted and reflected by any RR as specified in
[RFC7432]
received B-MAC/I-SID update only in the case of supporting the procedures described in this
document.

, since no new attributes or values are used. A PE receiving the route will process the

Rabadan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9541

PBB-EVPN I-SID-Based C-MAC Flush

March 2024

4.  Solution Description

Figure 1 will be used in the description of the solution. CE1, CE2, and CE3 are connected to ACs
associated with I-SID1, where no (multihomed) ESs have been enabled, and the ACs and PWs are
in active or standby state as per Figure 1.

Enabling or disabling I-SID-based C-MAC flush
system that
to being configured for all I-SIDs. When enabled on a PE:

SHOULD

MAY

 be configured per I-SID (I-Component, Service Instance Component), as opposed

 be an administrative choice on the

a.

The PE will be able to generate B-MAC/I-SID routes as C-MAC Flush notifications for the
remote PEs.

b.

The PE will be able to process B-MAC/I-SID routes received from remote PEs.

MUST

The PE
some additional procedures when I-SID-based C-MAC flush is enabled.

 follow the procedures in

[RFC7623]

 for C-MAC flush. This specification provides

This C-MAC flush specification is described in three sets of procedures:

•

I-SID-based C-MAC flush activation

•

C-MAC flush notification generation upon AC failures

•

C-MAC flush process upon receiving a C-MAC flush notification

4.1.  I-SID-Based C-MAC Flush Activation Procedures

The following behavior
Figure 1 is used as a reference.

MUST

 be followed by the PBB-EVPN PEs following this specification.

•

[RFC7623]

, each PE advertises a shared B-MAC in a B-MAC/0 route (with B-MAC1, B-

As in
MAC2, B-MAC3, and B-MAC4 in the MAC address field, respectively). This is the B-MAC that
each PE will use as B-MAC SA (Source Address) when encapsulating the frames received on
any local single-homed AC. Each PE will import the received B-MAC/0 routes from the remote
PEs and will install the B-MACs in its B-component (Backbone Component) MAC-VRF. For
instance, PE1 will advertise B-MAC1/0 and will install B-MAC2, B-MAC3, and B-MAC4 in its
MAC-VRF.

•

Assuming I-SID-based C-MAC flush is activated for I-SID1, the PEs will advertise the shared B-
MAC with I-SID1 encoded in the Ethernet Tag. That is, PE1 will advertise B-MAC1/1 and will
 use these B-MAC/I-SID
receive B-MAC2/1, B-MAC3/1, and B-MAC4/1. The receiving PEs
routes only for C-MAC flush procedures and they
 be used to add/withdraw any B-
MAC entry in the MAC-VRFs. As per
withdraw B-MACs in the MAC-VRFs.

, only B-MAC/0 routes can be used to add/

[RFC7623]

MUST NOT

MUST

•

The above procedure

MAY

 also be used for dedicated B-MACs (B-MACs allocated per ES).

Rabadan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9541

PBB-EVPN I-SID-Based C-MAC Flush

March 2024

4.2.  C-MAC Flush Generation

If, for instance, there is a failure on PE1's AC, PE1 will generate an update including B-MAC1/1
along with the MAC Mobility extended community where the Sequence Number has been
incremented. The reception of the B-MAC1/1 with an increment in the sequence number will
trigger the C-MAC flush procedures on the receiving PEs.

•

An AC going operationally down
Number. If the AC going down makes the entire local I-SID go operationally down, the PE will
withdraw the B-MAC/I-SID route for the I-SID.

 generate a B-MAC/I-SID with a higher Sequence

MUST

•

An AC going operationally up
activates its corresponding I-SID, in which case the PE will advertise the B-MAC/I-SID route.

 generate any B-MAC/I-SID update, unless it

SHOULD NOT

•

An AC receiving a G.8032 flush notification or a flush message in any other protocol from the
access network
 propagate it to the remote PEs by generating a B-MAC/I-SID route update
with a higher Sequence Number.

MAY

4.3.  C-MAC Flush Process upon Receiving a C-MAC Flush Notification

A PE receiving a C-MAC flush notification will follow these procedures:

•

A received B-MAC/I-SID route (with a non-zero I-SID)
from the MAC-VRF.

MUST NOT

 add/remove any B-MAC to/

•

An update of a previously received B-MAC/I-SID route with an increment Sequence Number
 flush all the C-MACs associated with that I-SID and B-MAC. C-MACs associated with the
MUST
same I-SID but different B-MAC

 be flushed.

MUST NOT

•

A received B-MAC/I-SID withdraw (with a non-zero I-SID)
associated with that B-MAC and I-SID.

MUST

 flush all the C-MACs

Note that the C-MAC flush procedures described in
and a PE receiving
specified in

[RFC7623]
.

[RFC7623]

 C-MAC flush notification messages

MUST

 observe the behavior

[RFC7623]

 for B-MAC/0 routes are still valid

5.  Conclusions

The I-SID-based C-MAC flush solution described in this document has the following benefits:

a.

The solution solves packet-loss scenarios in case of failures on null ES ACs, since the C-MAC
flush procedures are independent of the ES definition.

b.

This extension can also be used with Single-Active non-null ESs and virtual ESs, irrespective
of the PE B-MAC address assignment (dedicated per-ES B-MAC or shared B-MAC).

c.

It provides a C-MAC flush notification at B-MAC and I-SID granularity level, therefore
flushing a minimum number of C-MACs and reducing the amount of unknown unicast
flooding in the network.

Rabadan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9541

PBB-EVPN I-SID-Based C-MAC Flush

March 2024

d.

It provides a reliable C-MAC flush notification in PBB-EVPN networks that use RRs. RRs will
propagate the C-MAC flush notifications for all the affected I-SIDs, irrespective of the order in
which the notifications make it to the RR.

e.

The solution can coexist in a network with systems supporting or not supporting this
specification. Non-supporting systems ignore the B-MAC/I-SID routes; however, they still
follow the C-MAC flush procedures in

[RFC7623]
.

6.  Security Considerations

Security considerations described in

[RFC7623]

 apply to this document.

In addition, this document suggests additional procedures that can be activated on a per I-SID
basis and generate additional EVPN MAC/IP Advertisement routes in the network. The format of
these additional EVPN MAC/IP Advertisement routes is backwards compatible with the
procedures in
 and should not create any issues for receiving PEs that do not follow
this specification. However, the additional routes may consume extra memory and processing
resources on the receiving PEs. Because of that, it is
 to activate this feature only
when necessary (when multihomed networks or devices are attached to the PBB-EVPN PEs), and
not by default in any PBB-EVPN PE.

RECOMMENDED

[RFC7623]

7.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC7432]

[RFC7623]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Sajassi, A., Ed. Aggarwal, R. Bitar, N. Isaac, A. Uttaro, J. Drake, J.
Henderickx "BGP MPLS-Based Ethernet VPN" RFC 7432 DOI 10.17487/RFC7432
February 2015,

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7432>
.

, and

,
,

W.

,

,

,

,

,

Sajassi, A., Ed. Salam, S. Bitar, N. Isaac, A.
Backbone Bridging Combined with Ethernet VPN (PBB-EVPN)" RFC 7623 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7623>
10.17487/RFC7623

W. Henderickx "Provider
,

, September 2015,

, and

,
,

,

,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

8.2.  Informative References

Rabadan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9541

PBB-EVPN I-SID-Based C-MAC Flush

March 2024

[EVPN-VIRTUAL-ES]

Sajassi, A. Brissette, P. Schell, R. Drake, J.

,

,

,

, and

J. Rabadan "EVPN Virtual

,

Ethernet Segment" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-bess-evpn-
,
virtual-eth-segment-15
draft-ietf-bess-evpn-virtual-eth-segment-15>

, 28 February 2024,

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/

,

.

ITU-T "Ethernet ring protection switching" ITU-T Recommendation G.8032/Y.
1344

,
<https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-G.8032-202003-I/en>

,
, March 2020,

.

 and

Lasserre, M., Ed.
,
Label Distribution Protocol (LDP) Signaling" RFC 4762 DOI 10.17487/RFC4762
January 2007,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4762>

V. Kompella, Ed. "Virtual Private LAN Service (VPLS) Using

.

,

,

[G.8032]

[RFC4762]

Acknowledgments

The authors want to thank
Ranganathan Boovaraghavan

Vinod Prabhu Sriram Venkateswaran Laxmi Padakanti

,
 for their review and contributions.

,

, and

Authors' Addresses

editor
)

Jorge Rabadan (
Nokia
520 Almanor Avenue
Sunnyvale CA 94085
,
United States of America
Email:

 jorge.rabadan@nokia.com

Senthil Sathappan
Nokia
520 Almanor Avenue
Sunnyvale CA 94085
,
United States of America
Email:

 senthil.sathappan@nokia.com

Kiran Nagaraj
Nokia
520 Almanor Avenue
Sunnyvale CA 94085
,
United States of America
Email:

 kiran.nagaraj@nokia.com

M. Miyake
Softbank
Email:

 masahiro.miyake@g.softbank.co.jp

T. Matsuda
Softbank
Email:

 taku.matsuda@g.softbank.co.jp

Rabadan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

