Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9118
8226
Standards Track
August 2021
2070-1721
R. Housley
Vigil Security

RFC 9118
Enhanced JSON Web Token (JWT) Claim Constraints
for Secure Telephone Identity Revisited (STIR)
Certiﬁcates

Abstract

RFC 8226 speciﬁes the use of certiﬁcates for Secure Telephone Identity Credentials; these
certiﬁcates are often called "Secure Telephone Identity Revisited (STIR) Certiﬁcates". RFC 8226
provides a certiﬁcate extension to constrain the JSON Web Token (JWT) claims that can be
included in the Personal Assertion Token (PASSporT), as deﬁned in RFC 8225. If the PASSporT
signer includes a JWT claim outside the constraint boundaries, then the PASSporT recipient will
reject the entire PASSporT. This document updates RFC 8226; it provides all of the capabilities
available in the original certiﬁcate extension as well as an additional way to constrain the
allowable JWT claims. The enhanced extension can also provide a list of claims that are not
allowed to be included in the PASSporT.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9118

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Housley

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9118

EnhancedJWTClaimConstraints

August 2021

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  Enhanced JWT Claim Constraints Syntax

4.  Usage Examples

5.  Certiﬁcate Extension Example

6.  Guidance to Certiﬁcation Authorities

7.  IANA Considerations

8.  Security Considerations

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  ASN.1 Module

Acknowledgements

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

[RFC8226]

[RFC5280]

The use of certiﬁcates
in
important element of the overall system that prevents the impersonation of telephone numbers
on the Internet.

. These certiﬁcates are often called "STIR Certiﬁcates". STIR certiﬁcates are an

 in establishing authority over telephone numbers is described

 provides a certiﬁcate extension to constrain the JSON Web Token (JWT)

Section 8 of [RFC8226]
claims that can be included in the Personal Assertion Token (PASSporT)
PASSporT signer includes a JWT claim outside the constraint boundaries, then the PASSporT
recipient will reject the entire PASSporT.

[RFC8225]

. If the

Housley

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9118

EnhancedJWTClaimConstraints

August 2021

This document deﬁnes an enhanced JWTClaimConstraints certiﬁcate extension, which provides
all of the capabilities available in the original certiﬁcate extension as well as an additional way to
constrain the allowable JWT claims. That is, the enhanced extension can provide a list of claims
that are not allowed to be included in the PASSporT.

The Enhanced JWT Claim Constraints certiﬁcate extension is needed to limit the authority when
a parent STIR certiﬁcate delegates to a subordinate STIR certiﬁcate. For example,
describes the situation where service providers issue a STIR certiﬁcate to enterprises or other
customers to sign PASSporTs, and the Enhanced JWT Claim Constraints certiﬁcate extension can
be used to prevent speciﬁc claims from being included in PASSporTs and accepted as valid by the
PASSporT recipient.

[RFC9060]

The JWT Claim Constraints certiﬁcate extension deﬁned in
that must be included in a valid PASSporT as well as a list of permitted values for selected claims.
The Enhanced JWT Claim Constraints certiﬁcate extension deﬁned in this document includes
those capabilities and adds a list of claims that must not be included in a valid PASSporT.

 provides a list of claims

[RFC8226]

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Enhanced JWT Claim Constraints Syntax

The Enhanced JWT Claim Constraints certiﬁcate extension is non-critical, applicable only to end-
entity certiﬁcates, and deﬁned with ASN.1
. The syntax of the JWT claims in a PASSporT is
speciﬁed in

[RFC8225]

[X.680]

.

The Enhanced JWT Claim Constraints certiﬁcate extension is optional, but, when present, it
constrains the JWT claims that authentication services may include in the PASSporT objects they
sign. Constraints are applied by certiﬁcate issuers and enforced by recipients when validating
PASSporT claims as follows:

1.

mustInclude indicates JWT claims that
orig, and dest claims. The baseline PASSporT claims ("iat", "orig", and "dest") are considered
to be required by
mustInclude is absent, the iat, orig, and dest claims

 appear in the PASSporT in addition to the iat,

 be part of the mustInclude list. If

 appear in the PASSporT.

, and these claims

SHOULD NOT

[RFC8225]

MUST

MUST

2.

permittedValues indicates that, if the claim name is present, the claim
one of the listed values.

MUST

 exactly match

3.

mustExclude indicates JWT claims that
PASSporT claims ("iat", "orig", and "dest") are always permitted, and these claims
be part of the mustExclude list. If one of these baseline PASSporT claims appears in the
mustExclude list, then the certiﬁcate

 appear in the PASSporT. The baseline

 be treated as if the extension was not present.

MUST NOT

MUST

MUST NOT

Housley

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9118

EnhancedJWTClaimConstraints

August 2021

, JWT Claim Names
Following the precedent in
known as strings using the International Alphabet No. 5

[RFC8226]

MUST
[ISO646]
.

 be ASCII strings, which are also

The Enhanced JWT Claim Constraints certiﬁcate extension is identiﬁed by the following object
identiﬁer (OID):

    id-pe-eJWTClaimConstraints OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { id-pe 33 }

The Enhanced JWT Claim Constraints certiﬁcate extension has the following syntax:

    EnhancedJWTClaimConstraints ::= SEQUENCE {
      mustInclude [0] JWTClaimNames OPTIONAL,
        -- The listed claim names MUST appear in the PASSporT
        -- in addition to iat, orig, and dest.  If absent, iat, orig,
        -- and dest MUST appear in the PASSporT.
      permittedValues [1] JWTClaimValuesList OPTIONAL,
        -- If the claim name is present, the claim MUST contain one
        -- of the listed values.
      mustExclude [2] JWTClaimNames OPTIONAL }
        -- The listed claim names MUST NOT appear in the PASSporT.
    ( WITH COMPONENTS { ..., mustInclude PRESENT } |
      WITH COMPONENTS { ..., permittedValues PRESENT } |
      WITH COMPONENTS { ..., mustExclude PRESENT } )

    JWTClaimValuesList ::= SEQUENCE SIZE (1..MAX) OF JWTClaimValues

    JWTClaimValues ::= SEQUENCE {
      claim JWTClaimName,
      values SEQUENCE SIZE (1..MAX) OF UTF8String }

    JWTClaimNames ::= SEQUENCE SIZE (1..MAX) OF JWTClaimName

    JWTClaimName ::= IA5String

4.  Usage Examples

Consider these usage examples with a PASSporT claim called "conﬁdence" with values "low",
"medium", and "high". These examples illustrate the constraints that are imposed by
mustInclude, permittedValues, and mustExclude:

•

If a certiﬁcation authority (CA) issues a certiﬁcate to an authentication service that includes
an Enhanced JWT Claim Constraints certiﬁcate extension that contains the mustInclude
JWTClaimName "conﬁdence", then an authentication service is required to include the
"conﬁdence" claim in all PASSporTs it generates and signs. A veriﬁcation service will treat
any PASSporT it receives without a "conﬁdence" PASSporT claim as invalid.

•

If a CA issues a certiﬁcate to an authentication service that includes an Enhanced JWT Claim
Constraints certiﬁcate extension that contains the permittedValues JWTClaimName
"conﬁdence" and a permitted "high" value, then a veriﬁcation service will treat any
PASSporT it receives with a PASSporT "conﬁdence" claim with a value other than "high" as

Housley

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9118

EnhancedJWTClaimConstraints

August 2021

invalid. However, a veriﬁcation service will not treat a PASSporT it receives without a
PASSporT "conﬁdence" claim at all as invalid, unless "conﬁdence" also appears in
mustInclude.

•

If a CA issues a certiﬁcate to an authentication service that includes an Enhanced JWT Claim
Constraints certiﬁcate extension that contains the mustExclude JWTClaimName
"conﬁdence", then a veriﬁcation service will treat any PASSporT it receives with a PASSporT
"conﬁdence" claim as invalid regardless of the claim value.

5.  Certiﬁcate Extension Example

A certiﬁcate containing an example of the EnhancedJWTClaimConstraints certiﬁcate extension is
provided in Figure 1. The certiﬁcate is provided in the format described in
example of the EnhancedJWTClaimConstraints extension from the certiﬁcate is shown in Figure
2. The example imposes three constraints:

[RFC7468]

. The

1.

The "conﬁdence" claim must be present in the PASSporT.

2.

The "conﬁdence" claim must have a value of "high" or "medium".

3.

The "priority" claim must not be present in the PASSporT.

-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----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-----END CERTIFICATE-----

Figure 1: Example Certiﬁcate

Housley

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9118

EnhancedJWTClaimConstraints

August 2021

  0  64: SEQUENCE {
  2  14:   [0] {
  4  12:     SEQUENCE {
  6  10:       IA5String 'confidence'
       :       }
       :     }
 18  32:   [1] {
 20  30:     SEQUENCE {
 22  28:       SEQUENCE {
 24  10:         IA5String 'confidence'
 36  14:         SEQUENCE {
 38   4:           UTF8String 'high'
 44   6:           UTF8String 'medium'
       :           }
       :         }
       :       }
       :     }
 52  12:   [2] {
 54  10:     SEQUENCE {
 56   8:       IA5String 'priority'
       :       }
       :     }
       :   }

Figure 2: Example EnhancedJWTClaimConstraints Extension

6.  Guidance to Certiﬁcation Authorities

The EnhancedJWTClaimConstraints extension speciﬁed in this document and the
JWTClaimConstraints extension speciﬁed in
certiﬁcate.

[RFC8226] MUST NOT

 both appear in the same

If the situation calls for mustExclude constraints, then the EnhancedJWTClaimConstraints
extension is the only extension that can express the constraints.

On the other hand, if the situation does not call for mustExclude constraints, then either the
EnhancedJWTClaimConstraints extension or the JWTClaimConstraints extension can express the
constraints. Until such time as support for the EnhancedJWTClaimConstraints extension becomes
widely implemented, the use of the JWTClaimConstraints extension may be more likely to be
supported. This guess is based on the presumption that the ﬁrst speciﬁed extension will be
implemented more widely in the next few years.

7.  IANA Considerations

This document makes use of object identiﬁers for the Enhanced JWT Claim Constraints certiﬁcate
extension deﬁned in Section 3 and the ASN.1 module identiﬁer deﬁned in Appendix A. Therefore,
IANA has made the following assignments within the "Structure of Management Information
(SMI) Numbers (MIB Module Registrations)" registry.

Housley

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9118

EnhancedJWTClaimConstraints

August 2021

For the Enhanced JWT Claim Constraints certiﬁcate extension in the "SMI Security for PKIX
Certiﬁcate Extension" (1.3.6.1.5.5.7.1) registry:

Decimal Description

33

id-pe-eJWTClaimConstraints

Table 1

For the ASN.1 module identiﬁer in the "SMI Security for PKIX Module Identiﬁer" (1.3.6.1.5.5.7.0)
registry:

Decimal Description

101

id-mod-eJWTClaimConstraints-2021

Table 2

8.  Security Considerations

For further information on certiﬁcate security and practices, see
Security Considerations section.

[RFC5280]

, especially the

Since non-critical certiﬁcate extensions are ignored by implementations that do not recognize
the extension object identiﬁer (OID), constraints on PASSporT validation will only be applied by
relying parties that recognize the EnhancedJWTClaimConstraints extension.

The Enhanced JWT Claim Constraints certiﬁcate extension can be used by certiﬁcate issuers to
provide limits on the acceptable PASSporTs that can be accepted by veriﬁcation services.
Enforcement of these limits depends upon proper implementation by the veriﬁcation services.
The digital signature on the PASSporT data structure will be valid even if the limits are violated.

Use of the Enhanced JWT Claim Constraints certiﬁcate extension permittedValues constraint is
most useful when the claim deﬁnition allows a speciﬁed set of values. In this way, all of the
values that are not listed in the JWTClaimValuesList are prohibited in a valid PASSporT.

Certiﬁcate issuers must take care when imposing constraints on the PASSporT claims and the
claim values that can be successfully validated; some combinations can prevent any PASSporT
from being successfully validated by the certiﬁcate. For example, an entry in mustInclude and an
entry in mustExclude for the same claim will prevent successful validation on any PASSporT.

SHOULD NOT

Certiﬁcate issuers
certiﬁcate that will be used with the PASSporT Extension for Rich Call Data deﬁned in
PASSPORT-RCD]
working properly.

 include an entry in mustExclude for the "rcdi" claim for a

. Excluding this claim would prevent the integrity protection mechanism from

[STIR-

Housley

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9118

EnhancedJWTClaimConstraints

August 2021

Certiﬁcate issuers must take care when performing certiﬁcate renewal
exactly the same Enhanced JWT Claim Constraints certiﬁcate extension in the new certiﬁcate as
the old one. Renewal usually takes place before the old certiﬁcate expires, so there is a period of
time where both the new certiﬁcate and the old certiﬁcate are valid. If diﬀerent constraints
appear in the two certiﬁcates with the same public key, some PASSporTs might be valid when
one certiﬁcate is used and invalid when the other one is used.

 to include

[RFC4949]

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC5280]

[RFC5912]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8225]

[RFC8226]

[X.680]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

,

Cooper, D. Santesson, S. Farrell, S. Boeyen, S. Housley, R.
"Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certiﬁcate and Certiﬁcate Revocation
List (CRL) Proﬁle" RFC 5280 DOI 10.17487/RFC5280
editor.org/info/rfc5280>

, May 2008,

<https://www.rfc-

W. Polk

, and

,

,

.

,

,

,

 and

J. Schaad "New ASN.1 Modules for the Public Key

Hoﬀman, P.
,
Infrastructure Using X.509 (PKIX)" RFC 5912 DOI 10.17487/RFC5912
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5912>

,

,

.

, June 2010,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

Wendt, C.
10.17487/RFC8225

J. Peterson "PASSporT: Personal Assertion Token" RFC 8225 DOI

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8225>

,
, February 2018,

 and

,

.

 and

Peterson, J.
,
RFC 8226 DOI 10.17487/RFC8226
info/rfc8226>

,

.

S. Turner "Secure Telephone Identity Credentials: Certiﬁcates"

,

, February 2018,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

,

ITU-T "Information technology - Abstract Syntax Notation One (ASN.1):
,
Speciﬁcation of basic notation" ITU-T Recommendation X.680

, February 2021.

9.2.  Informative References

[ISO646]

[RFC4949]

,

ISO "Information technology - ISO 7-bit coded character set for information
interchange" ISO/IEC 646:1991

, December 1991.

,

,
Shirey, R. "Internet Security Glossary, Version 2" FYI 36 RFC 4949 DOI
10.17487/RFC4949

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4949>

, August 2007,

,

,

,

.

Housley

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9118

EnhancedJWTClaimConstraints

August 2021

[RFC7468]

[RFC9060]

S. Leonard "Textual Encodings of PKIX, PKCS, and CMS

Josefsson, S.
 and
Structures" RFC 7468 DOI 10.17487/RFC7468
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc7468>

,

.

, April 2015,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Peterson, J. "Secure Telephone Identity Revisited (STIR) Certiﬁcate Delegation"
, August 2021,
RFC 9060 DOI 10.17487/RFC9060
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/
rfc9060>

,
.

,

[STIR-PASSPORT-RCD]

J. Peterson "PASSporT Extension for Rich Call Data"

,

 and
Wendt, C.
,

Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-stir-passport-rcd-12
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-stir-passport-rcd-12>

.

,
, 12 July 2021,

Appendix A.  ASN.1 Module

This appendix provides the ASN.1
certiﬁcate extension. The module deﬁned in this appendix is compatible with the ASN.1
speciﬁcations published in 2015.

 deﬁnitions for the Enhanced JWT Claim Constraints

[X.680]

Housley

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9118

EnhancedJWTClaimConstraints

August 2021

This ASN.1 module imports ASN.1 from

[RFC5912]

.

Housley

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9118

EnhancedJWTClaimConstraints

August 2021

<CODE BEGINS>
EnhancedJWTClaimConstraints-2021
  { iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1)
    security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) id-mod(0)
    id-mod-eJWTClaimConstraints-2021(101) }

DEFINITIONS EXPLICIT TAGS ::= BEGIN

IMPORTS

id-pe
FROM PKIX1Explicit-2009  -- From RFC 5912
  { iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1)
    security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) id-mod(0)
    id-mod-pkix1-explicit-02(51) }

EXTENSION
FROM PKIX-CommonTypes-2009  -- From RFC 5912
  { iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1)
    security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) id-mod(0)
    id-mod-pkixCommon-02(57) } ;

-- Enhanced JWT Claim Constraints Certificate Extension

ext-eJWTClaimConstraints EXTENSION ::= {
  SYNTAX EnhancedJWTClaimConstraints
  IDENTIFIED BY id-pe-eJWTClaimConstraints }

id-pe-eJWTClaimConstraints OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { id-pe 33 }

EnhancedJWTClaimConstraints ::= SEQUENCE {
  mustInclude [0] JWTClaimNames OPTIONAL,
    -- The listed claim names MUST appear in the PASSporT
    -- in addition to iat, orig, and dest.  If absent, iat, orig,
    -- and dest MUST appear in the PASSporT.
  permittedValues [1] JWTClaimValuesList OPTIONAL,
    -- If the claim name is present, the claim MUST contain one
    -- of the listed values.
  mustExclude [2] JWTClaimNames OPTIONAL }
    -- The listed claim names MUST NOT appear in the PASSporT.
( WITH COMPONENTS { ..., mustInclude PRESENT } |
  WITH COMPONENTS { ..., permittedValues PRESENT } |
  WITH COMPONENTS { ..., mustExclude PRESENT } )

JWTClaimValuesList ::= SEQUENCE SIZE (1..MAX) OF JWTClaimValues

JWTClaimValues ::= SEQUENCE {
  claim JWTClaimName,
  values SEQUENCE SIZE (1..MAX) OF UTF8String }

JWTClaimNames ::= SEQUENCE SIZE (1..MAX) OF JWTClaimName

JWTClaimName ::= IA5String

END

Housley

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9118

EnhancedJWTClaimConstraints

August 2021

<CODE ENDS>

Acknowledgements

Many thanks to
Constraints certiﬁcate extension.

Chris Wendt

 for his insight into the need for the for the Enhanced JWT Claim

Ben Campbell Theresa Enghardt Ben Kaduk Erik Kline Éric Vyncke
Thanks to
for their thoughtful review and comments. The document is much better as a result of their
eﬀorts.

, and

,

,

,

,

Rob Wilton

Author's Address

Russ Housley
Vigil Security, LLC
516 Dranesville Road
Herndon VA 20170
,
United States of America
Email:

 housley@vigilsec.com

Housley

Standards Track

Page 12

