Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9198
2330
Standards Track
May 2022
2070-1721
J. Alvarez-Hamelin
Universidad de Buenos Aires

A. Morton
AT&T Labs

R. Geib
Deutsche Telekom

J. Fabini
TU Wien

C. Pignataro
Cisco Systems, Inc.

RFC 9198
Advanced Unidirectional Route Assessment (AURA)

Abstract

This memo introduces an advanced unidirectional route assessment (AURA) metric and
associated measurement methodology based on the IP Performance Metrics (IPPM) framework
(RFC 2330). This memo updates RFC 2330 in the areas of path-related terminology and path
description, primarily to include the possibility of parallel subpaths between a given Source and
Destination pair, owing to the presence of multipath technologies.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9198
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Alvarez-Hamelin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9198

AURA Metrics & Methods

May 2022

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Issues with Earlier Work to Deﬁne a Route Metric

1.2.  Requirements Language

2.  Scope

3.  Route Metric Speciﬁcations

3.1.  Terms and Deﬁnitions

3.2.  Formal Name

3.3.  Parameters

3.4.  Metric Deﬁnitions

3.5.  Related Round-Trip Delay and Loss Deﬁnitions

3.6.  Discussion

3.7.  Reporting the Metric

4.  Route Assessment Methodologies

4.1.  Active Methodologies

4.1.1.  Temporal Composition for Route Metrics

4.1.2.  Routing Class Identiﬁcation

4.1.3.  Intermediate Observation Point Route Measurement

4.2.  Hybrid Methodologies

4.3.  Combining Diﬀerent Methods

5.  Background on Round-Trip Delay Measurement Goals

6.  RTD Measurements Statistics

7.  Security Considerations

8.  IANA Considerations

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Alvarez-Hamelin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9198

AURA Metrics & Methods

May 2022

Appendix A.  MPLS Methods for Route Assessment

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

[RFC2330]

The IETF IP Performance Metrics (IPPM) Working Group ﬁrst created a framework for metric
development in
of many fundamental metrics. It has been updated in the area of metric composition
and in several areas related to active stream measurement of modern networks with reactive
properties

. This framework has stood the test of time and enabled development
[RFC5835]

[RFC7312]

.

[RFC2330]

 motivated the development of "performance and reliability metrics
The framework in
for paths through the Internet";
 deﬁnes terms that support description of a
path under test. However, metrics for assessment of paths and related performance aspects had
not been attempted in IPPM when the framework in

Section 5 of [RFC2330]

 was written.

[RFC2330]

This memo takes up the Route measurement challenge and speciﬁes a new Route metric, two
practical frameworks for methods of measurement (using either active or hybrid active-passive
methods
measurements. All Route measurements are limited by the willingness of Hosts along the path to
be discovered, to cooperate with the methods used, or to recognize that the measurement
operation is taking place (such as when tunnels are present).

), and Round-Trip Delay and link information discovery using the results of

[RFC7799]

1.1.  Issues with Earlier Work to Deﬁne a Route Metric

Section 7 of [RFC2330]
examples. The example is reproduced below (where the reference is to

 presents a simple example of a "Route" metric along with several other
):
Section 5 of [RFC2330]

route:

The path, as deﬁned in Section 5, from A to B at a given time.

This example provides a starting point to develop a more complete deﬁnition of Route. Areas
needing clariﬁcation include:

Time:

In practice, the Route will be assessed over a time interval because active path detection

methods like Paris-traceroute
accomplish discovery of all Hosts using a single packet.

[PT]

 rely on Hop Limits for their operation and cannot

Alvarez-Hamelin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9198

AURA Metrics & Methods

May 2022

Type-P:

The legacy Route deﬁnition lacks the option to cater for packet-dependent routing. In

this memo, we assess the Route for a speciﬁc packet of Type-P and reﬂect this in the metric
deﬁnition. The methods of measurement determine the speciﬁc Type-P used.

Parallel Paths:

Parallel paths are a reality of the Internet and a strength of advanced Route

assessment methods, so the metric must acknowledge this possibility. Use of Equal-Cost
Multipath (ECMP) and Unequal-Cost Multipath (UCMP) technologies are common sources of
parallel subpaths.

Cloud Subpath:

Cloud subpaths may contain Hosts that do not decrement the Hop Limit but may

have two or more exchange links connecting "discoverable" Hosts or routers. Parallel
subpaths contained within clouds cannot be discovered. The assessment methods only
discover Hosts or routers on the path that decrement Hop Limit or cooperate with
interrogation protocols. The presence of tunnels and nested tunnels further complicate
assessment by hiding Hops.

Hop:

The deﬁnition of Hop in

 was a link-Host pair. However, only Hosts that were
discoverable and cooperated with interrogation protocols (where link information may be
exposed) provided both link and Host information.

[RFC2330]

Note that the actual deﬁnitions appear in Section 3.1.

1.2.  Requirements Language

", "
The key words "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
"
", "
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

2.  Scope

The purpose of this memo is to add new Route metrics and methods of measurement to the
existing set of IPPM metrics.

The scope is to deﬁne Route metrics that can identify the path taken by a packet or a ﬂow
traversing the Internet between two Hosts. Although primarily intended for Hosts
communicating on the Internet, the deﬁnitions and metrics are constructed to be applicable to
other network domains, if desired. The methods of measurement to assess the path may not be
able to discover all Hosts comprising the path, but such omissions are often deterministic and
explainable sources of error.

[PT]

This memo also speciﬁes a framework for active methods of measurement that uses the
techniques described in
measurement, such as the Hybrid Type I method
[RFC9197]
explicit interrogation of Nodes on a path. Combinations of active methods and hybrid active-
passive methods are also in scope.

 are intended only for single administrative domains that provide a protocol for

 as well as a framework for hybrid active-passive methods of

 described in

[RFC9197]

[RFC7799]

. Methods using

Alvarez-Hamelin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9198

AURA Metrics & Methods

May 2022

Further, this memo provides additional analysis of the Round-Trip Delay measurements made
possible by the methods in an eﬀort to discover more details about the path, such as the link
technology in use.

This memo updates
description, primarily to include the possibility of parallel subpaths between a given Source and
Destination address pair (possibly resulting from ECMP and UCMP technologies).

 in the areas of path-related terminology and path

Section 5 of [RFC2330]

There are several simple non-goals of this memo. There is no attempt to assess the reverse path
from any Host on the path to the Host attempting the path measurement. The reverse path
contribution to delay will be that experienced by ICMP packets (in active methods) and may be
diﬀerent from delays experienced by UDP or TCP packets. Also, the Round-Trip Delay will include
an unknown contribution of processing time at the Host that generates the ICMP response.
Therefore, the ICMP-based active methods are not supposed to yield accurate, reproducible
estimations of the Round-Trip Delay that UDP or TCP packets will experience.

3.  Route Metric Speciﬁcations

This section sets requirements for the components of the route metric.

3.1.  Terms and Deﬁnitions

Host

A Host (as deﬁned in
(aka an RFC 2330 Host).

[RFC2330]

Node

) is a computer capable of IP communication, including routers

A Node is any network function on the path capable of IP-layer Communication, including RFC
2330 Hosts.

Node Identity

The Node identity is the unique address for Nodes communicating within the network domain.
For Nodes communicating on the Internet with IP, it is the globally routable IP address that the
Node uses when communicating with other Nodes under normal or error conditions. The Node
identity revealed (and its connection to a Node name through reverse DNS) determines
whether interfaces to parallel links can be associated with a single Node or appear to identify
unique Nodes.

Discoverable Node

Discoverable Nodes are Nodes that convey their Node identity according to the requirements
of their network domain, such as when error conditions are detected by that Node. For Nodes
communicating with IP packets, compliance with
a packet due to TTL or Hop Limit Exceeded condition,
corresponding Time Exceeded message (containing a form of Node identity) to the source.
This requirement is also consistent with

Section 3.2.2.4 of [RFC1122]

Section 5.3.1 of [RFC1812]

 result in sending the

 for routers.

, when discarding

MUST

Alvarez-Hamelin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9198

AURA Metrics & Methods

May 2022

Cooperating Node

Cooperating Nodes are Nodes that respond to direct queries for their Node identity as part of a
previously established and agreed upon interrogation protocol. Nodes
 also provide
information such as arrival/departure interface identiﬁcation, arrival timestamp, and any
relevant information about the Node or speciﬁc link that delivered the query to the Node.

SHOULD

Hop speciﬁcation

A Hop speciﬁcation
interface identiﬁcation, Round-Trip Delay, and an arrival timestamp.

 contain a Node identity and

MUST

MAY

 contain arrival and/or departure

Routing Class

Routing Class is a Route that treats a class of diﬀerent types of packets, designated "C"
(unrelated to address classes of the past) equally (
class allows any one of the types of packets within that class to be used for subsequent
measurement of the Route. The designator "class C" is used for historical reasons; see
[RFC2330]

[RFC2330] [RFC8468]

.

). Knowledge of such a

3.2.  Formal Name

The formal name of the metric is:

Type-P-Route-Ensemble-Method-Variant

abbreviated as Route Ensemble.

Note that Type-P depends heavily on the chosen method and variant.

3.3.  Parameters

This section lists the
this memo.

REQUIRED

 input factors to deﬁne and measure a Route metric, as speciﬁed in

Src:

the address of a Node (such as the globally routable IP address).

Dst:

the address of a Node (such as the globally routable IP address).

i:

the limit on the number of Hops a speciﬁc packet may visit as it traverses from the Node at Src
to the Node at Dst (such as the TTL or Hop Limit).

MaxHops:

the maximum value of i used (i=1,2,3,...MaxHops).

T0:

a time (start of measurement interval).

Tf:

a time (end of measurement interval).

MP(address):

the Measurement Point at address, such as Src or Dst, usually at the same Node

stack layer as "address".

T:

the Node time of a packet as measured at MP(Src), meaning Measurement Point at the
Source.

Alvarez-Hamelin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9198

AURA Metrics & Methods

May 2022

Ta:

the Node time of a reply packet's arrival as measured at MP(Src), assigned to packets that

arrive within a "reasonable" time (see parameter below).

Tmax:

a maximum waiting time for reply packets to return to the source, set suﬃciently long to

disambiguate packets with long delays from packets that are discarded (lost), such that the
distribution of Round-Trip Delay is not truncated.

F:

the number of diﬀerent ﬂows simulated by the method and variant.

ﬂow:

the stream of packets with the same n-tuple of designated header ﬁelds that (when held

constant) result in identical treatment in a multipath decision (such as the decision taken in
load balancing). Note: The IPv6 ﬂow label
is a Tunnel Endpoint (TEP) complying with the guidelines in

 be included in the ﬂow deﬁnition if the MP(Src)
.

[RFC6438]

MAY

Type-P:

the complete description of the packets for which this assessment applies (including the

ﬂow-deﬁning ﬁelds).

3.4.  Metric Deﬁnitions

This section deﬁnes the
otherwise indicated):

REQUIRED

 measurement components of the Route metrics (unless

M:

the total number of packets sent between T0 and Tf.

N:

the smallest value of i needed for a packet to be received at Dst (sent between T0 and Tf).

Nmax:

the largest value of i needed for a packet to be received at Dst (sent between T0 and Tf).

Nmax may be equal to N.

Next, deﬁne a singleton for a Node on the path with suﬃcient indexes to identify all Nodes
identiﬁed in a measurement interval (where singleton is part of the IPPM Framework
[RFC2330]

).

singleton:

A Hop speciﬁcation, designated h(i,j), the IP address and/or identity of Discoverable

Nodes (or Cooperating Nodes) that are i Hops away from the Node with address = Src and part
of Route j during the measurement interval T0 to Tf. As deﬁned here, a Hop singleton
measurement
MUST
following attributes:

 contain a Node identity, hid(i,j), and

 contain one or more of the

MAY

•

a(i,j) Arrival Interface ID (e.g., when

[RFC5837]

 is supported)

•

d(i,j) Departure Interface ID (e.g., when

[RFC5837]

 is supported)

•

t(i,j) arrival timestamp, where t(i,j) is ideally supplied by the Hop (note that t(i,j) might be
approximated from the sending time of the packet that revealed the Hop, e.g., when the
round-trip response time is available and divided by 2)

•

Measurements of Round-Trip Delay (for each packet that reveals the same Node identity and
ﬂow attributes, then this attribute is computed; see next section)

Alvarez-Hamelin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9198

AURA Metrics & Methods

May 2022

Node identities and related information can be ordered by their distance from the Node with
address Src in Hops h(i,j). Based on this, two forms of Routes are distinguished:

A Route Ensemble is deﬁned as the combination of all Routes traversed by diﬀerent ﬂows from
the Node at Src address to the Node at Dst address. A single Route traversed by a single ﬂow
(determined by an unambiguous tuple of addresses Src and Dst and other identical ﬂow criteria)
is a member of the Route Ensemble and called a Member Route.

Using h(i,j) and components and parameters further deﬁne:

When considering the set of Hops in the context of a single ﬂow, a Member Route j is an ordered
list {h(1,j), ... h(Nj, j)} where h(i-1, j) and h(i, j) are one Hop away from each other and Nj satisfying
h(Nj,j)=Dst is the minimum count of Hops needed by the packet on member Route j to reach Dst.
Member Routes must be unique. The uniqueness property requires that any two Member Routes, j
and k, that are part of the same Route Ensemble diﬀer either in terms of minimum Hop count Nj
and Nk to reach the destination Dst or, in the case of identical Hop count Nj=Nk, they have at
least one distinct Hop: h(i,j) != h(i,k) for at least one i (i=1..Nj).

All the optional information collected to describe a Member Route, such as the arrival interface,
departure interface, and Round-Trip Delay at each Hop, turns each list item into a rich structure.
There may be information on the links between Hops, possible information on the routing
(arrival interface and departure interface), an estimate of distance between Hops based on
Round-Trip Delay measurements and calculations, and a timestamp indicating when all these
additional details were measured.

The Route Ensemble from Src to Dst, during the measurement interval T0 to Tf, is the aggregate of
all m distinct Member Routes discovered between the two Nodes with Src and Dst addresses.
More formally, with the Node having address Src omitted:

Route Ensemble = {
{h(1,1), h(2,1), h(3,1), ... h(N1,1)=Dst},
{h(1,2), h(2,2), h(3,2),..., h(N2,2)=Dst},
...
{h(1,m), h(2,m), h(3,m), ....h(Nm,m)=Dst}
}

where the following conditions apply: i <= Nj <= Nmax (j=1..m)

Note that some h(i,j) may be empty (null) in the case that systems do not reply (not discoverable
or not cooperating).

h(i-1,j) and h(i,j) are the Hops on the same Member Route one Hop away from each other.

Hop h(i,j) may be identical with h(k,l) for i!=k and j!=l, which means there may be portions shared
among diﬀerent Member Routes (parts of Member Routes may overlap).

Alvarez-Hamelin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9198

AURA Metrics & Methods

May 2022

3.5.  Related Round-Trip Delay and Loss Deﬁnitions

RTD(i,j,T) is deﬁned as a singleton of the
address = Src and the Node at Hop h(i,j) at time T.

[RFC2681]

 Round-Trip Delay between the Node with

[RFC6673]
RTL(i,j,T) is deﬁned as a singleton of the
address = Src and the Node at Hop h(i,j) at time T.

 Round-Trip Loss between the Node with

3.6.  Discussion

Depending on the way that the Node identity is revealed, it may be diﬃcult to determine parallel
subpaths between the same pair of Nodes (i.e., multiple parallel links). It is easier to detect parallel
subpaths involving diﬀerent Nodes.

•

If a pair of discovered Nodes identify two diﬀerent addresses (IP or not), then they will appear
to be diﬀerent Nodes. See item below.

•

If a pair of discovered Nodes identify two diﬀerent IP addresses and the IP addresses resolve
to the same Node name (in the DNS), then they will appear to be the same Node.

•

If a discovered Node always replies using the same network address, regardless of the
interface a packet arrives on, then multiple parallel links cannot be detected in that network
domain. This condition may apply to traceroute-style methods but may not apply to other
hybrid methods based on In situ Operations, Administration, and Maintenance (IOAM). For
example, if the ICMP extension mechanism described in
parallel links can be detected with the discovery traceroute-style methods.

 is implemented, then

[RFC5837]

•

If parallel links between routers are aggregated below the IP layer, then, from the Node's
point of view, all these links share the same pair of IP addresses. The existence of these
parallel links can't be detected at the IP layer. This applies to other network domains with
layers below them as well. This condition may apply to traceroute-style methods but may not
apply to other hybrid methods based on IOAM.

When a Route assessment employs IP packets (for example), the reality of ﬂow assignment to
parallel subpaths involves layers above IP. Thus, the measured Route Ensemble is applicable to IP
and higher layers (as described in the methodology's packet of Type-P and ﬂow parameters).

3.7.  Reporting the Metric

An Information Model and an XML Data Model for Storing Traceroute Measurements is
available in
information: a one-dimensional Hop index, Node symbolic address, Node IP address, and RTD for
each response.

. The measured information at each Hop includes four pieces of

[RFC5388]

Alvarez-Hamelin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9198

AURA Metrics & Methods

May 2022

The description of Hop information that may be collected according to this memo covers more
dimensions, as deﬁned in Section 3.4. For example, the Hop index is two-dimensional to capture
the complexity of a Route Ensemble, and it contains corresponding Node identities at a
minimum. The models need to be expanded to include these features as well as Arrival Interface
ID, Departure Interface ID, and arrival timestamp, when available. The original sending
Timestamp from the Src Node anchors a particular measurement in time.

4.  Route Assessment Methodologies

There are two classes of methods described in this section, active methods relying on the reaction
to TTL or Hop Limit Exceeded condition to discover Nodes on a path and hybrid active-passive
methods that involve direct interrogation of Cooperating Nodes (usually within a single domain).
Description of these methods follow.

4.1.  Active Methodologies

This section describes the method employed by current open-source tools, thereby providing a
practical framework for further advanced techniques to be included as method variants. This
method is applicable for use across multiple administrative domains.

Internet routing is complex because it depends on the policies of thousands of Autonomous
[RFC2991]
Systems (ASes). Most routers perform load balancing on ﬂows using a form of ECMP.
describes a number of ﬂow-based or hashed approaches (e.g., Modulo-N Hash, Hash-Threshold,
and Highest Random Weight (HRW)) and makes some good suggestions. Flow-based ECMP avoids
increased packet Delay Variation and possibly overwhelming levels of packet reordering in ﬂows.

A few routers still divide the workload through packet-based techniques, such as a round-robin
scheme to distribute every new outgoing packet to multiple links, as explained in
methods described in this section assume ﬂow-based ECMP.

[RFC2991]

. The

Taking into account that Internet protocol was designed under the "end-to-end" principle, the IP
payload and its header do not provide any information about the Routes or path necessary to
reach some destination. For this reason, the popular tool, traceroute, was developed to gather the
IP addresses of each Hop along a path using ICMP
. Traceroute also measures RTD from
each Hop. However, the growing complexity of the Internet makes it more challenging to develop
an accurate traceroute implementation. For instance, the early traceroute tools would be
inaccurate in the current network, mainly because they were not designed to retain a ﬂow state.
However, evolved traceroute tools, such as Paris-traceroute (
(
[SCAMPER]
Scamper ensures traceroute packets will follow the same path in 98% of cases (

), expect to encounter ECMP and achieve more accurate results when they do, where

) and Scamper

[SCAMPER]

[PT] [MLB]

[RFC0792]

).

Today's traceroute tools send Type-P of packets, which are either ICMP, UDP, or TCP. UDP and TCP
are used when a particular characteristic needs to be veriﬁed, such as ﬁltering or traﬃc shaping
on speciﬁc ports (i.e., services). UDP and TCP traceroute are also used when ICMP responses are
not received.
constant in all packets.

 supports IPv6 traceroute measurements, keeping the Flow Label

[SCAMPER]

Alvarez-Hamelin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9198

AURA Metrics & Methods

May 2022

Paris-traceroute allows its users to measure the RTD to every Node of the path for a particular
ﬂow. Furthermore, either Paris-traceroute or Scamper is capable of unveiling the many available
paths between a source and destination (which are visible to active methods). This task is
accomplished by repeating complete traceroute measurements with diﬀerent ﬂow parameters
for each measurement; Paris-traceroute provides an "exhaustive" mode, while Scamper provides
"Framework for IP Performance Metrics"
"tracelb" (which stands for "traceroute load balance").
[RFC7312]
[RFC2330]
measurement
measurement appear as the same ﬂow. This ﬂexibility covers ICMP, UDP, and TCP. The
accompanying methodology of
identiﬁers along with RTD measurements, but no new metric deﬁnition is needed.

, has the ﬂexibility to require that the Round-Trip Delay
 uses packets with the constraints to assure that all packets in a single

 needs to be expanded to report the sequential Hop

, updated by

[RFC2681]

[RFC2681]

[PT]

The advanced Route assessment methods used in Paris-traceroute
constant for every packet to maintain the appearance of the same ﬂow. When considering IPv6
headers, it is necessary to ensure that the IP Source and Destination addresses and Flow Label are
constant (but note that many routers ignore the Flow Label ﬁeld at this time); see
of IPv6 Extension Headers may add critical ﬁelds and
of the IP header and the ﬁrst 4 bytes of the IP payload should remain constant in a ﬂow. In the
IPv4 header, the IP Source and Destination addresses, protocol number, and Diﬀserv ﬁelds
identify ﬂows. The ﬁrst 4 payload bytes include the UDP and TCP ports and the ICMP type, code,
and checksum ﬁelds.

. Use
 be avoided. In IPv4, certain ﬁelds

 keep the critical ﬁelds

[RFC6437]

SHOULD

Maintaining a constant ICMP checksum in IPv4 is most challenging, as the ICMP sequence
number or identiﬁer ﬁelds will usually change for diﬀerent probes of the same path. Probes
should use arbitrary bytes in the ICMP data ﬁeld to oﬀset changes to the sequence number and
identiﬁer, thus keeping the checksum constant.

Finally, it is also essential to Route the resulting ICMP Time Exceeded messages along a consistent
path. In IPv6, the ﬁelds above are suﬃcient. In IPv4, the ICMP Time Exceeded message will
contain the IP header and the ﬁrst 8 bytes of the IP payload, both of which aﬀect its ICMP
checksum calculation. The TCP sequence number, UDP length, and UDP checksum will aﬀect this
value and should remain constant.

Formally, to maintain the same ﬂow in the measurements to a particular Hop, the Type-P-Route-
Ensemble-Method-Variant packets should have the following attributes (see

[PT]

):

TCP case:

For IPv4, the ﬁelds Src, Dst, port-Src, port_Dst, sequence number, and Diﬀserv

SHOULD

be the same. For IPv6, the ﬁelds Flow Label, Src, and Dst

SHOULD

 be the same.

UDP case:

For IPv4, the ﬁelds Src, Dst, port-Src, port-Dst, and Diﬀserv should be the same, and the

SHOULD

 change to keep the IP checksum of the ICMP Time Exceeded reply

UDP checksum
constant. Then, the data length should be ﬁxed, and the data ﬁeld is used to make it so
(consider that ICMP checksum uses its data ﬁeld, which contains the original IP header plus 8
bytes of UDP, where TTL, IP identiﬁcation, IP checksum, and UDP checksum changes). For IPv6,
the ﬁeld Flow Label and Source and Destination addresses

 be the same.

SHOULD

Alvarez-Hamelin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9198

AURA Metrics & Methods

May 2022

ICMP case:

For IPv4, the data ﬁeld

SHOULD

 compensate variations on TTL or Hop Limit, IP

identiﬁcation, and IP checksum for every packet. There is no need to consider ICMPv6 because
only Flow Label of IPv6 and Source and Destination addresses are used, and all of them
SHOULD

 be constant.

Then, the way to identify diﬀerent Hops and attempts of the same IPv4 ﬂow is:

TCP case:

The IP identiﬁcation ﬁeld.

UDP case:

The IP identiﬁcation ﬁeld.

ICMP case:

The IP identiﬁcation ﬁeld and ICMP sequence number.

4.1.1.  Temporal Composition for Route Metrics

The active Route assessment methods described above have the ability to discover portions of a
path where ECMP load balancing is present, observed as two or more unique Member Routes
having one or more distinct Hops that are part of the Route Ensemble. Likewise, attempts to
deliberately vary the ﬂow characteristics to discover all Member Routes will reveal portions of
the path that are ﬂow invariant.

 describes the Temporal Composition of metrics and introduces the

Section 9.2 of [RFC2330]
possibility of a relationship between earlier measurement results and the results for
measurement at the current time (for a given metric). There is value in establishing a Temporal
Composition relationship for Route metrics; however, this relationship does not represent a
forecast of future Route conditions in any way.

For Route-metric measurements, the value of Temporal Composition is to reduce the
measurement iterations required with repeated measurements. Reduced iterations are possible
by inferring that current measurements using ﬁxed and previously measured ﬂow
characteristics:

•

will have many common Hops with previous measurements.

•

will have relatively time-stable results at the ingress and egress portions of the path when
measured from user locations, as opposed to measurements of backbone networks and
across inter-domain gateways.

•

may have greater potential for time variation in path portions where ECMP load balancing is
observed (because increasing or decreasing the pool of links changes the hash calculations).

Optionally, measurement systems may take advantage of the inferences above when seeking to
reduce measurement iterations after exhaustive measurements indicate that the time-stable
properties are present. Repetitive active Route measurement systems:

1. SHOULD

 occasionally check path portions that have exhibited stable results over time,

particularly ingress and egress portions of the path (e.g., daily checks if measuring many
times during a day).

2. SHOULD

 continue testing portions of the path that have previously exhibited ECMP load

balancing.

Alvarez-Hamelin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9198

AURA Metrics & Methods

May 2022

3. SHALL

 trigger reassessment of the complete path and Route Ensemble if any change in Hops

is observed for a speciﬁc (and previously tested) ﬂow.

4.1.2.  Routing Class Identiﬁcation

[RFC2330]

There is an opportunity to apply the notion from
packets, "...very useful to know if a given Internet component treats equally a class C of diﬀerent
types of packets", as it applies to Route measurements. The notion of class C was examined
 as it applied to load-balancing ﬂows over parallel paths, which is the case we
further in
develop here. Knowledge of class C parameters (unrelated to address classes of the past) on a path
potentially reduces the number of ﬂows required for a given method to assess a Route Ensemble
over time.

 of equal treatment for a class of

[RFC8468]

First, recognize that each Member Route of a Route Ensemble will have a corresponding class C.
Class C can be discovered by testing with multiple ﬂows, all of which traverse the unique set of
Hops that comprise a speciﬁc Member Route.

Second, recognize that the diﬀerent classes depend primarily on the hash functions used at each
instance of ECMP load balancing on the path.

Third, recognize the synergy with Temporal Composition methods (described above), where
evaluation intends to discover time-stable portions of each Member Route so that more emphasis
can be placed on ECMP portions that also determine class C.

The methods to assess the various class C characteristics beneﬁt from the following measurement
capabilities:

•

ﬂows designed to determine which n-tuple header ﬁelds are considered by a given hash
function and ECMP Hop on the path and which are not. This operation immediately narrows
the search space, where possible, and partially deﬁnes a class C.

•

a priori knowledge of the possible types of hash functions in use also helps to design the ﬂows
for testing (major router vendors publish information about these hash functions; examples
are in

[LOAD_BALANCE]

).

•

ability to direct the emphasis of current measurements on ECMP portions of the path, based
on recent past measurement results (the Routing Class of some portions of the path is
essentially "all packets").

4.1.3.  Intermediate Observation Point Route Measurement

There are many examples where passive monitoring of a ﬂow at an Observation Point within the
network can detect unexpected Round-Trip Delay or Delay Variation. But how can the cause of
the anomalous delay be investigated further from the Observation Point possibly located at an
intermediate point on the path?

In this case, knowledge that the ﬂow of interest belongs to a speciﬁc Routing Class C will enable
measurement of the Route where anomalous delay has been observed. Speciﬁcally, Round-Trip
Delay assessment to each Hop on the path between the Observation Point and the Destination for
the ﬂow of interest may discover high or variable delay on a speciﬁc link and Hop combination.

Alvarez-Hamelin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9198

AURA Metrics & Methods

May 2022

The determination of a Routing Class C that includes the ﬂow of interest is as described in the
section above, aided by computation of the relevant hash function output as the target.

4.2.  Hybrid Methodologies

The Hybrid Type I methods provide an alternative for Route assessment. The "Scope, Applicability,
and Assumptions" section of
 provides one possible set of data ﬁelds that would support
Route identiﬁcation.

[RFC9197]

In general, Nodes in the measured domain would be equipped with speciﬁc abilities:

•

Store the identity of Nodes that a packet has visited in header data ﬁelds in the order the
packet visited the Nodes.

•

Support of a "Loopback" capability where a copy of the packet is returned to the
encapsulating Node and the packet is processed like any other IOAM packet on the return
transfer.

In addition to Node identity, Nodes may also identify the ingress and egress interfaces utilized by
the tracing packet, the absolute time when the packet was processed, and other generic data (as
described in
diﬀerent links in a bundle (Link Aggregation Control Protocol (LACP)) could be identiﬁed. Equally
well, links without explicit IP addresses can be identiﬁed (like with unnumbered interfaces in an
IGP deployment).

). Interface identiﬁcation isn't necessarily limited to IP, i.e.,

Section 3 of [RFC9197]

Note that the Type-P packet speciﬁcation for this method will likely be a partial speciﬁcation
because most of the packet ﬁelds are determined by the user traﬃc. The packet encapsulation
header or headers added by the hybrid method can certainly be speciﬁed in Type-P, in
unpopulated form.

4.3.  Combining Diﬀerent Methods

In principle, there are advantages if the entity conducting Route measurements can utilize both
forms of advanced methods (active and hybrid) and combine the results. For example, if there
are Nodes involved in the path that qualify as Cooperating Nodes but not as Discoverable Nodes,
then a more complete view of Hops on the path is possible when a hybrid method (or
interrogation protocol) is applied and the results are combined with the active method results
collected across all other domains.

In order to combine the results of active and hybrid/interrogation methods, the network Nodes
that are part of a domain supporting an interrogation protocol have the following attributes:

1.

Nodes at the ingress to the domain

SHOULD

 be both Discoverable and Cooperating.

2.

Any Nodes within the domain that are both Discoverable and Cooperating
same Node identity in response to both active and hybrid methods.

SHOULD

 reveal the

3.

Nodes at the egress to the domain
SHOULD

 be both Discoverable and Cooperating and
 reveal the same Node identity in response to both active and hybrid methods.

SHOULD

Alvarez-Hamelin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9198

AURA Metrics & Methods

May 2022

When Nodes follow these requirements, it becomes a simple matter to match single-domain
measurements with the overlapping results from a multidomain measurement.

In practice, Internet users do not typically have the ability to utilize the Operations,
Administrations, and Maintenance (OAM) capabilities of networks that their packets traverse, so
the results from a remote domain supporting an interrogation protocol would not normally be
accessible. However, a network operator could combine interrogation results from their access
domain with other measurements revealing the path outside their domain.

5.  Background on Round-Trip Delay Measurement Goals

The aim of this method is to use packet probes to unveil the paths between any two End-Nodes of
the network. Moreover, information derived from RTD measurements might be meaningful to
identify:

1.

Intercontinental submarine links

2.

Satellite communications

3.

Congestion

4.

Inter-domain paths

This categorization is widely accepted in the literature and among operators alike, and it can be
trusted with empirical data and several sources as ground of truth (e.g.,
inference measurement nonetheless

[bdrmap] [IDCong]

), but it is an

[RTTSub]

.

The ﬁrst two categories correspond to the physical distance dependency on RTD, the next one
binds RTD with queuing delay on routers, and the last one helps to identify diﬀerent ASes using
traceroutes. Due to the signiﬁcant contribution of propagation delay in long-distance Hops, RTD
will be on the order of 100 ms on transatlantic Hops, depending on the geolocation of the vantage
points. Moreover, RTD is typically higher than 480 ms when two Hops are connected using
geostationary satellite technology (i.e., their orbit is at 36000 km). Detecting congestion with
latency implies deeper mathematical understanding, since network traﬃc load is not stationary.
Nonetheless, as the ﬁrst approach, a link seems to be congested if observing diﬀerent/varying
statistical results after sending several traceroute probes (e.g., see
distinctive ASes in the same traceroute path is challenging because more data is needed, like AS
relationships and Regional Internet Registry (RIR) delegations among others (for more details,
please consult

). Finally, to recognize

[bdrmap]

[IDCong]

).

6.  RTD Measurements Statistics

Several articles have shown that network traﬃc presents a self-similar nature
that is accountable for ﬁlling the queues of the routers. Moreover, router queues are designed to
handle traﬃc bursts, which is one of the most remarkable features of self-similarity. Naturally,
while queue length increases, the delay to traverse the queue increases as well and leads to an
increase on RTD. Due to traﬃc bursts generating short-term overﬂow on buﬀers (spiky patterns),

[SSNT] [MLRM]

Alvarez-Hamelin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9198

AURA Metrics & Methods

May 2022

every RTD only depicts the queueing status on the instant when that packet probe was in transit.
For this reason, several RTD measurements during a time window could begin to describe the
random behavior of latency. Loss must also be accounted for in the methodology.

To understand the ongoing process, examining the quartiles provides a nonparametric way of
analysis. Quartiles are deﬁned by ﬁve values: minimum RTD (m), RTD value of the 25% of the
Empirical Cumulative Distribution Function (ECDF) (Q1), the median value (Q2), the RTD value of
the 75% of the ECDF (Q3), and the maximum RTD (M). Congestion can be inferred when RTD
measurements are spread apart; consequently, the Interquartile Range (IQR), i.e., the distance
between Q3 and Q1, increases its value.

This procedure requires the algorithm presented in

[P2]

 to compute quartile values "on the ﬂy".

This procedure allows us to update the quartile values whenever a new measurement arrives,
which is radically diﬀerent from classic methods of computing quartiles, because they need to use
the whole dataset to compute the values. This way of calculus provides savings in memory and
computing time.

To sum up, the proposed measurement procedure consists of performing traceroutes several
times to obtain samples of the RTD in every Hop from a path during a time window (W) and
compute the quartiles for every Hop. This procedure could be done for a single Member Route
ﬂow, for a non-exhaustive search with parameter E (deﬁned below) set to False, or for every
detected Route Ensemble ﬂow (E=True).

The identiﬁcation of a speciﬁc Hop in a traceroute is based on the IP origin address of the
returned ICMP Time Exceeded packet and on the distance identiﬁed by the value set in the TTL
(or Hop Limit) ﬁeld inserted by traceroute. As this speciﬁc Hop can be reached by diﬀerent paths,
the IP Source and Destination addresses of the traceroute packet also need to be recorded. Finally,
diﬀerent return paths are distinguished by evaluating the ICMP Time Exceeded TTL (or Hop Limit)
of the reply message; if this TTL (or Hop Limit) is constant for diﬀerent paths containing the same
Hop, the return paths have the same distance. Moreover, this distance can be estimated
considering that the TTL (or Hop Limit) value is normally initialized with values 64, 128, or 255.
The 5-tuple (origin IP, destination IP, reply IP, distance, and response TTL or Hop Limit)
unequivocally identiﬁes every measurement.

This algorithm below runs in the origin of the traceroute. It returns the Qs quartiles for every Hop
and Alt (alternative paths because of balancing). Notice that the "Alt" parameter condenses the
parameters of the 5-tuple (origin IP, destination IP, reply IP, distance, and response TTL), i.e., one
for each possible combination.

Alvarez-Hamelin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9198

AURA Metrics & Methods

May 2022

================================================================
0  input:   W (window time of the measurement)
1           i_t (time between two measurements, set the i_t time
2                long enough to avoid incomplete results)
3           E (True: exhaustive, False: a single path)
4           Dst (destination IP address)
5  output:  Qs (quartiles for every Hop and Alt)
----------------------------------------------------------------
6  T := start_timer(W)
7  while T is not finished do:
8  |       start_timer(i_t)
9  |       RTD(Hop,Alt) = advanced-traceroute(Dst,E)
10 |       for each Hop and Alt in RTD do:
11 |       |     Qs[Dst,Hop,Alt] := ComputeQs(RTD(Hop,Alt))
12 |       done
13 |       wait until i_t timer is expired
14 done
15  return (Qs)
================================================================

During the time W, lines 6 and 7 assure that the measurement loop is made. Lines 8 and 13 set a
timer for each cycle of measurements. A cycle comprises the traceroutes packets, considering
every possible Hop and the alternatives paths in the Alt variable (ensured in lines 9-12). In line 9,
the advanced-traceroute could be either Paris-traceroute or Scamper, which will use the
"exhaustive" mode or "tracelb" option if E is set to True, respectively. The procedure returns a list
of tuples (m, Q1, Q2, Q3, and M) for each intermediate Hop, or "Alt" in as a function of the 5-tuple,
in the path towards the Dst. Finally, lines 10 through 12 store each measurement into the real-time
quartiles computation.

Notice there are cases where even having a unique Hop at distance h from the Src to Dst, the
returning path could have several possibilities, yielding diﬀerent total paths. In this situation, the
algorithm will return another "Alt" for this particular Hop.

7.  Security Considerations

The security considerations that apply to any active measurement of live paths are relevant here
as well. See

[RFC5357]

[RFC4656]

 and

.

The active measurement process of changing several ﬁelds to keep the checksum of diﬀerent
packets identical does not require special security considerations because it is part of synthetic
traﬃc generation and is designed to have minimal to zero impact on network processing (to
process the packets for ECMP).

Some of the protocols used (e.g., ICMP) do not provide cryptographic protection for the requested/
returned data, and there are risks of processing untrusted data in general, but these are
limitations of the existing protocols where we are applying new methods.

For applicable hybrid methods, the security considerations in

[RFC9197]

 apply.

Alvarez-Hamelin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9198

AURA Metrics & Methods

May 2022

When considering the privacy of those involved in measurement or those whose traﬃc is
measured, the sensitive information available to potential observers is greatly reduced when
using active techniques that are within this scope of work. Passive observations of user traﬃc for
measurement purposes raise many privacy issues. We refer the reader to the privacy
considerations described in the Large-scale Measurement of Broadband Performance (LMAP)
Framework

, which covers active and passive techniques.

[RFC7594]

8.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[RFC0792]

[RFC1122]

[RFC1812]

[RFC2119]

[RFC2330]

[RFC2681]

[RFC4656]

[RFC5388]

[RFC6438]

Postel, J. "Internet Control Message Protocol" STD 5 RFC 792 DOI 10.17487/
,
RFC0792
, September 1981,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc792>
.

,

,

,

Braden, R., Ed. "Requirements for Internet Hosts - Communication Layers" STD
3 RFC 1122 DOI 10.17487/RFC1122
.
rfc1122>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, October 1989,

,

,

,

Baker, F., Ed. "Requirements for IP Version 4 Routers" RFC 1812 DOI 10.17487/
RFC1812

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1812>

, June 1995,

,

,

,

,

,
Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
.
rfc2119>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

, and
Paxson, V. Almes, G. Mahdavi, J.
,
Performance Metrics" RFC 2330 DOI 10.17487/RFC2330
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2330>

,

,

,

M. Mathis "Framework for IP

, May 1998,

<https://

Almes, G. Kalidindi, S.
RFC 2681 DOI 10.17487/RFC2681
.
info/rfc2681>

, and

,
,

,
, September 1999,

,
M. Zekauskas "A Round-trip Delay Metric for IPPM"

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

,

,
Shalunov, S. Teitelbaum, B. Karp, A. Boote, J.
,
Active Measurement Protocol (OWAMP)" RFC 4656 DOI 10.17487/RFC4656
September 2006,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4656>

M. Zekauskas "A One-way
,

, and

,

,

,

,

Niccolini, S. Tartarelli, S. Quittek, J. Dietz, T.
and XML Data Model for Traceroute Measurements" RFC 5388 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5388

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5388>

M. Swany "Information Model

, December 2008,

, and

,

,

,

,

,

 and

Carpenter, B.
,
Routing and Link Aggregation in Tunnels" RFC 6438 DOI 10.17487/RFC6438
November 2011,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6438>

S. Amante "Using the IPv6 Flow Label for Equal Cost Multipath

,

,

,

Alvarez-Hamelin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9198

AURA Metrics & Methods

May 2022

[RFC6673]

[RFC7799]

[RFC8029]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8468]

[RFC9197]

Morton, A. "Round-Trip Packet Loss Metrics" RFC 6673 DOI 10.17487/RFC6673
,
August 2012,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6673>
.

,

,

,

,
Morton, A. "Active and Passive Metrics and Methods (with Hybrid Types In-
,
,
Between)" RFC 7799 DOI 10.17487/RFC7799
.
editor.org/info/rfc7799>

<https://www.rfc-

, May 2016,

,

Kompella, K. Swallow, G. Pignataro, C., Ed. Kumar, N. Aldrin, S.
,
"Detecting Multiprotocol Label Switched (MPLS) Data-Plane Failures" RFC 8029
DOI 10.17487/RFC8029

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8029>

M. Chen
,

, March 2017,

, and

,

,

,

,

,
,
Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
.
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

Morton, A. Fabini, J. Elkins, N. Ackermann, M.
IPv4-IPv6 Coexistence: Updates for the IP Performance Metrics (IPPM)
,
Framework" RFC 8468 DOI 10.17487/RFC8468
.
editor.org/info/rfc8468>

, November 2018,

, and

,

,

,

V. Hegde "IPv4, IPv6, and

<https://www.rfc-

,
Brockners, F., Ed. Bhandari, S., Ed.
Operations, Administration, and Maintenance (IOAM)" RFC 9197 DOI 10.17487/
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9197>
RFC9197

T. Mizrahi, Ed. "Data Fields for In Situ

, May 2022,

, and

,

,

,

9.2.  Informative References

[bdrmap]

[IDCong]

,

,

Luckie, M. Dhamdhere, A. Huﬀaker, B. Clark, D.
Inference of Borders Between IP Networks" Proceedings of the 2016 ACM on
,
Internet Measurement Conference, pp. 381-396 DOI 10.1145/2987443.2987467
November 2016,

.
<https://doi.org/10.1145/2987443.2987467>

,
KC. Claﬀy "bdrmap:

, and

,

,

,

,

,

, and
Luckie, M. Dhamdhere, A. Clark, D.
,
Internet Interdomain Congestion" Proceedings of the 2014 Conference on
,
Internet Measurement Conference, pp. 15-22 DOI 10.1145/2663716.2663741
November 2014,
.
<https://doi.org/10.1145/2663716.2663741>

B. Huﬀaker "Challenges in Inferring

,

,

[LOAD_BALANCE]

,
Sanguanpong, S. Pittayapitak, W.

, and

OF HASH STRATEGIES FOR FLOW-BASED LOAD BALANCING" International
Journal of Electronic Commerce Studies, Vol.6, No.2, pp.259-268 DOI 10.7903/ijecs.
1346

.
<https://doi.org/10.7903/ijecs.1346>

, December 2015,

,

K. Kasom Koht-Arsa "COMPARISON
,

,

[MLB]

, and

,
Augustin, B. Friedman, T.
internet" Proceedings of the 7th ACM SIGCOMM conference on Internet
measurement, pp. 149-160 DOI 10.1145/1298306.1298329
.
doi.org/10.1145/1298306.1298329>

, October 2007,

R. Teixeira "Measuring load-balanced paths in the

<https://

,

,

,

Alvarez-Hamelin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9198

AURA Metrics & Methods

May 2022

[MLRM]

[P2]

[PT]

[RFC2991]

[RFC5357]

[RFC5835]

[RFC5837]

[RFC6437]

[RFC7312]

[RFC7325]

[RFC7594]

,

Fontugne, R. Mazel, J.
scale RTT measurements" 2015 IEEE Conference on Computer Communications
(INFOCOM), pp. 2470-2478 DOI 10.1109/INFOCOM.2015.7218636
<https://doi.org/10.1109/INFOCOM.2015.7218636>
.

K. Fukuda "An empirical mixture model for large-

, and
,
,

, April 2015,

,

,

 and

I. Chlamtac "The P 2 algorithm for dynamic calculation of quartiles
,

Jain, R.
and histograms without storing observations" Communications of the ACM
,
28.10 (1985): 1076-1085 DOI 10.1145/4372.4378
<https://doi.org/
.
10.1145/4372.4378>

, October 1985,

,

,
,
Augustin, B. Cuvellier, X. Orgogozo, B. Viger, F. Friedman, T. Latapy, M.
, and
Magnien, C.
R. Teixeira "Avoiding traceroute anomalies with Paris
,
traceroute" Proceedings of the 6th ACM SIGCOMM conference on Internet
measurement, pp. 153-158 DOI 10.1145/1177080.1177100
.
doi.org/10.1145/1177080.1177100>

, October 2006,

,

,

,

,

,

<https://

Thaler, D.
,
Selection" RFC 2991 DOI 10.17487/RFC2991
.
editor.org/info/rfc2991>

C. Hopps "Multipath Issues in Unicast and Multicast Next-Hop
<https://www.rfc-

, November 2000,

 and
,

,

,

,
J. Babiarz "A Two-Way
Hedayat, K. Krzanowski, R. Morton, A. Yum, K.
,
Active Measurement Protocol (TWAMP)" RFC 5357 DOI 10.17487/RFC5357
October 2008,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5357>

, and
,

,

,

,

 and

Morton, A., Ed.
,
RFC 5835 DOI 10.17487/RFC5835
.
rfc5835>

,
S. Van den Berghe, Ed. "Framework for Metric Composition"

,

, April 2010,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,
Atlas, A., Ed. Bonica, R., Ed. Pignataro, C., Ed. Shen, N.
ICMP for Interface and Next-Hop Identiﬁcation" RFC 5837 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5837

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5837>

, and
,
JR. Rivers "Extending
,

, April 2010,

,

,

,

,
Amante, S. Carpenter, B. Jiang, S.
,
Speciﬁcation" RFC 6437 DOI 10.17487/RFC6437
.
editor.org/info/rfc6437>

, and

,

J. Rajahalme "IPv6 Flow Label

,

, November 2011,

<https://www.rfc-

 and

Fabini, J.
,
,
Performance Metrics (IPPM)" RFC 7312 DOI 10.17487/RFC7312
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7312>

A. Morton "Advanced Stream and Sampling Framework for IP
, August 2014,

,

Villamizar, C., Ed. Kompella, K. Amante, S. Malis, A.
Forwarding Compliance and Performance Requirements" RFC 7325 DOI
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7325>
10.17487/RFC7325

C. Pignataro "MPLS
,

, August 2014,

, and

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Eardley, P. Morton, A. Bagnulo, M. Burbridge, T. Aitken, P.
,
Framework for Large-Scale Measurement of Broadband Performance (LMAP)"
, September 2015,
RFC 7594 DOI 10.17487/RFC7594
.
info/rfc7594>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

A. Akhter "A

, and

,

,

,

,

Alvarez-Hamelin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9198

AURA Metrics & Methods

May 2022

[RFC8403]

[RTTSub]

[SCAMPER]

[SSNT]

,

Geib, R., Ed. Filsﬁls, C. Pignataro, C., Ed.
Aware MPLS Data-Plane Monitoring System" RFC 8403 DOI 10.17487/RFC8403
,
July 2018,

N. Kumar "A Scalable and Topology-
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8403>
.

, and

,
,

,

F. Bustamante "In and out of Cuba: Characterizing Cuba's

,

, and

Bischof, Z. Rula, J.
Connectivity" Proceedings of the 2015 ACM Conference on Internet
Measurement Conference, pp. 487-493 DOI 10.1145/2815675.2815718
2015,

<https://doi.org/10.1145/2815675.2815718>
.

,

,

,

, October

,

Matthew Luckie, M. "Scamper: a scalable and extensible packet prober for
,
active measurement of the internet" Proceedings of the 10th ACM SIGCOMM
,
conference on Internet measurement, pp. 239-245 DOI 10.1145/1879141.1879171
November 2010,

.
<https://doi.org/10.1145/1879141.1879171>

,

 and

W. Willinger "Self-Similar Network Traﬃc and Performance

Park, K.
Evaluation (1st ed.)" DOI 10.1002/047120644X John Wiley & Sons, Inc., New York,
.
<https://doi.org/10.1002/047120644X>
NY, USA

,
, August 2000,

,

,

Appendix A.  MPLS Methods for Route Assessment

A Node assessing an MPLS path must be part of the MPLS domain where the path is implemented.
When this condition is met,
 provides a powerful set of mechanisms to detect "correct
operation of the data plane, as well as a mechanism to verify the data plane against the control
plane".

[RFC8029]

MPLS routing is based on the presence of a Forwarding Equivalence Class (FEC) Stack in all visited
Nodes. Selecting one of several Equal-Cost Multipaths (ECMPs) is, however, based on information
hidden deeper in the stack. Late deployments may support a so-called "Entropy label" for this
purpose. State-of-the-art deployments base their choice of an ECMP member interface on the
complete MPLS label stack and on IP addresses up to the complete 5-tuple IP header information
(see
). Load sharing based on IP information decouples this function from
the actual MPLS routing information. Thus, an MPLS traceroute is able to check how packets with
a contiguous number of ECMP-relevant IP addresses (and an identical MPLS label stack) are
forwarded by a particular router. The minimum number of equivalent MPLS paths traceable at a
router should be 32. Implementations supporting more paths are available.

Section 2.4 of [RFC7325]

The MPLS echo request and reply messages oﬀering this feature must support the Downstream
Detailed Mapping TLV (was Downstream Mapping initially, but the latter has been deprecated).
The MPLS echo response includes the incoming interface where a router received the MPLS echo
request. The MPLS echo reply further informs which of the n addresses relevant for the load-
sharing decision results in a particular next-hop interface and contains the next Hop's interface
address (if available). This ensures that the next Hop will receive a properly coded MPLS echo
request in the next step Route of assessment.

Alvarez-Hamelin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9198

AURA Metrics & Methods

May 2022

 explains how a central Path Monitoring System could be used to detect arbitrary MPLS

[RFC8403]
paths between any routers within a single MPLS domain. The combination of MPLS forwarding,
Segment Routing, and MPLS traceroute oﬀers a simple architecture and a powerful mechanism to
detect and validate (segment-routed) MPLS paths.

Acknowledgements

The original three authors (Ignacio, Al, Joachim) acknowledge
Carlos Pignataro
comments on the initial document and his initial text for the appendix on MPLS.
challenged the authors to consider a wider scope and applied his substantial expertise with many
technologies and their measurement features in his extensive comments.
shared useful comments and so did

. We thank them all!

 for his penetrating

Frank Brockners

Ruediger Geib

Footer Foote

 also

Authors' Addresses

J. Ignacio Alvarez-Hamelin
Universidad de Buenos Aires
Av. Paseo Colón 850
C1063ACV Buenos Aires
Argentina
Phone:
Email:
URI:

 +54 11 5285-0716
 ihameli@cnet.ﬁ.uba.ar

 http://cnet.ﬁ.uba.ar/ignacio.alvarez-hamelin/

Al Morton
AT&T Labs
200 Laurel Avenue South
Middletown NJ 07748
,
United States of America
Phone:
Email:

 +1 732 420 1571
 acm@research.att.com

Joachim Fabini
TU Wien
Gusshausstrasse 25/E389
1040 Vienna
Austria
Phone:
Email:
URI:

 +43 1 58801 38813
 Joachim.Fabini@tuwien.ac.at

 http://www.tc.tuwien.ac.at/about-us/staﬀ/joachim-fabini/

Alvarez-Hamelin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9198

AURA Metrics & Methods

May 2022

Carlos Pignataro
Cisco Systems, Inc.
7200-11 Kit Creek Road
Research Triangle Park NC 27709
,
United States of America
Email:

 cpignata@cisco.com

Ruediger Geib
Deutsche Telekom
Heinrich Hertz Str. 3-7
64295 Darmstadt
Germany
Phone:
Email:

 +49 6151 5812747
 Ruediger.Geib@telekom.de

Alvarez-Hamelin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

