Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9454
2328, 4222, 4811, 5243, 5340, 5614, 5838
Standards Track
August 2023
2070-1721
M. Fox
IBM

A. Lindem
LabN Consulting, L.L.C.

A. Retana
Futurewei Technologies, Inc.

RFC 9454
Update to OSPF Terminology

Abstract

This document updates some OSPF terminology to be in line with inclusive language used in the
industry. The IETF has designated "Guidance for NIST Staff on Using Inclusive Language in
Documentary Standards" by the US National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) for its
inclusive language guidelines. It is intended that all future OSPF documents use this revised
terminology even when they reference the RFCs updated by this document.

This document updates RFCs 2328, 4222, 4811, 5243, 5340, 5614, and 5838.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9454
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Fox, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9454

OSPF Terminology

August 2023

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Update to RFC 2328

3.  Update to RFC 4222

4.  Update to RFC 4811

5.  Update to RFC 5243

6.  Update to RFC 5340

7.  Update to RFC 5614

8.  Update to RFC 5838

9.  IANA Considerations

10. Security Considerations

11. References

11.1.  Normative References

11.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

2

3

3

3

3

3

4

4

4

5

5

5

5

5

6

This document updates some OSPF terminology to be in line with inclusive language used in the
industry. The IETF has designated "Guidance for NIST Staff on Using Inclusive Language in
Documentary Standards" by the US National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)
[NISTIR8366]
use this revised terminology even when they reference the RFCs updated by this document.

 for its inclusive language guidelines. It is intended that all future OSPF documents

This document updates
[RFC5838]
.

[RFC2328] [RFC4222] [RFC4811] [RFC5243] [RFC5340] [RFC5614]
,

,

,

,

,

, and

Fox, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9454

OSPF Terminology

August 2023

2.  Update to RFC 2328

The base OSPFv2 specification "OSPF Version 2"
databases as two routers forming a "master/slave" relationship. All instances of these terms are
replaced by "Leader/Follower", respectively.

 defines the synchronization of

[RFC2328]

In the Database Description packet, the "master (MS) bit" is renamed the "Leader (L) bit".

The operation of OSPFv2 is not modified. The Leader/Follower terminology and Leader (L) bit
definition changes impact the following sections: "The Synchronization of Databases" (Section
7.2), "The Neighbor Data Structure" (Section 10), "Neighbor states" (Section 10.1), "Events causing
neighbor state changes" (Section 10.2), "The Neighbor state machine" (Section 10.3), "Receiving
Database Description Packets" (Section 10.6), "Sending Database Description Packets" (Section
10.8), "An Example" (Section 10.10), and "The Database Description packet" (Appendix A.3.3).

3.  Update to RFC 4222

[RFC4222]
"Prioritized Treatment of Specific OSPF Version 2 Packets and Congestion Avoidance"
is a Best Current Practice (BCP) document. In Appendix C, Item (2), there is an example OSFPv2
packet sequence that refers to the "slave" in a database exchange; this reference is renamed to
"Follower".

4.  Update to RFC 4811

"OSPF Out-of-Band Link State Database (LSDB) Resynchronization"
document. Section 2.4 includes a Database Description packet (Figure 2) and a description of the
attendant encoding changes for Out-of-Band Resynchronization. In the figure and the
description, all instances of "MS" (when referring to the Database Description packet bit) are
renamed to "L". There is also a reference to "Master" in this section that is renamed to "Leader".

 is an Informational

[RFC4811]

5.  Update to RFC 5243

"OSPF Database Exchange Summary List Optimization"
The Introduction (Section 1) references "Master or Slave"; this is replaced by "Leader or
Follower". Section 3 includes an example of the optimized database exchange. In this example,
all instances of "Master" and "Slave" are renamed to "Leader" and "Follower", respectively.

 is an Informational document.

[RFC5243]

6.  Update to RFC 5340

 defines the Database Description
The base OSPFv3 specification "OSPF for IPv6"
process between two routers as one being "designated to be the master and the other is the
slave". All instances of these terms are replaced by "Leader/Follower", respectively.

[RFC5340]

In the Database Description packet, the "Master/Slave (MS) bit" is renamed the "Leader (L) bit".

Fox, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9454

OSPF Terminology

August 2023

The operation of OSPFv3 is not modified. The Leader/Follower terminology and Leader (L) bit
definition changes impact "The Database Description Packet" (Appendix A.3.3).

7.  Update to RFC 5614

[RFC5614]

"Mobile Ad Hoc Network (MANET) Extension of OSPF Using Connected Dominating Set (CDS)
Flooding"
 is an Experimental document. "Changes to the Neighbor State Machine"
(Section 7.1) contains modifications to the neighbor state machine that were updated from
[RFC2328]
renamed to "Leader" and "Follower", respectively. Additionally, all instances of "MS" (when
referring to the Database Description packet bit) are renamed to "L". And in "Receiving Database
Description Packets" (Section 7.5), "master or slave" is replaced by "Leader or Follower" in the
parenthetical.

. In the neighbor state machine modifications, all instances of "Master" and "Slave" are

8.  Update to RFC 5838

[RFC5838]
"Support of Address Families in OSPFv3"
Description Maximum Transmission Unit (MTU) Specification for Non-IPv6 AFs" (Section 2.7)
contains a Database Description packet change figure that includes the MS bit. In this figure, the
"MS" field is renamed the "L" field.

 is a Standards Track document. "Database

Additionally, in the first paragraph of "Changes to the Hello Packet Processing" (Section 2.4), the
text is updated to remove the non-inclusive terms pertaining to unreachability handling as
follows:

When an OSPFv3 router does not support this specification and an interface is
configured with the Instance ID corresponding to an IPv4 AF, packets could be routed
toward this interface and dropped. This could happen due to misconfiguration or a
router software downgrade. For example, an IPv4 packet could be received on an
interface not supporting IPv4 since a router that doesn't support this specification can
still include the interface in an SPF-calculated path as long as it establishes adjacencies
using the Instance ID corresponding to the IPv4 AF. Note that OSPFv3 Router-LSAs and
Network-LSAs are AF-agnostic.

9.  IANA Considerations

In the "Database Description (DD) Packet Flags" registry, IANA has updated the description for
value 0x01 to "Leader (L-bit)" and has added this document as a reference, as shown below.

0x01

Value:
Description:
Reference:

Leader (L-bit)

[RFC2328]

 [RFC9454]

Fox, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9454

OSPF Terminology

August 2023

10.  Security Considerations

This document updates the terminology used in OSPF RFCs without any modification to the
specifications of the protocol. As such, the security characteristics of OSPF do not change.

11.  References

11.1.  Normative References

[RFC2328]

[RFC4222]

[RFC4811]

[RFC5243]

[RFC5340]

[RFC5614]

[RFC5838]

,

Moy, J. "OSPF Version 2" STD 54 RFC 2328 DOI 10.17487/RFC2328
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2328>

,

,

.

, April 1998,

Choudhury, G., Ed. "Prioritized Treatment of Specific OSPF Version 2 Packets
and Congestion Avoidance" BCP 112 RFC 4222 DOI 10.17487/RFC4222
2005,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4222>
.

,

,

,

, October

,

Nguyen, L. Roy, A.
Resynchronization" RFC 4811 DOI 10.17487/RFC4811
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4811>

, and
,

,

.

A. Zinin "OSPF Out-of-Band Link State Database (LSDB)

,

, March 2007,

<https://

Ogier, R. "OSPF Database Exchange Summary List Optimization" RFC 5243 DOI
,
10.17487/RFC5243

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5243>

, May 2008,

.

,

,

Coltun, R. Ferguson, D. Moy, J.
10.17487/RFC5340

,
, July 2008,

,

, and

A. Lindem "OSPF for IPv6" RFC 5340 DOI

,

,

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5340>

.

 and

P. Spagnolo "Mobile Ad Hoc Network (MANET) Extension of OSPF

Ogier, R.
Using Connected Dominating Set (CDS) Flooding" RFC 5614 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5614

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5614>

, August 2009,

,

,

,

.

,

Lindem, A., Ed. Mirtorabi, S. Roy, A. Barnes, M.
Address Families in OSPFv3" RFC 5838 DOI 10.17487/RFC5838
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5838>

, and

,
,

,

,

.

R. Aggarwal "Support of
,

, April 2010,

11.2.  Informative References

[NISTIR8366]

National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) "Guidance for NIST Staff
on Using Inclusive Language in Documentary Standards" NIST Interagency/
Internal Report (NISTIR) 8366

<https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8366>
.

, April 2021,

,

,

Acknowledgements

Thanks to
comments.

Dhruv Dhody Adrian Farrel Erik Kline

,

,

, and

Barry Leiba

 for their reviews and

Fox, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9454

OSPF Terminology

August 2023

Authors' Addresses

Mike Fox
IBM
3039 E Cornwallis Rd.
Research Triangle Park NC 27709
,
United States of America
Email:

 mjfox@us.ibm.com

Acee Lindem
LabN Consulting, L.L.C.
301 Midenhall Way
Cary NC 27513
United States of America
Email:

,

 acee.ietf@gmail.com

Alvaro Retana
Futurewei Technologies, Inc.
2330 Central Expressway
Santa Clara CA 95050
,
United States of America
Email:

 aretana@futurewei.com

Fox, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

