Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9926
4861, 6550, 8505, 8928, 9010
Standards Track
February 2026
2070-1721
P. Thubert, Ed.

RFC 9926
Prefix Registration for IPv6 Neighbor Discovery

Abstract

This document updates IPv6 Neighbor Discovery (RFC 4861) and IPv6 Subnet Neighbor
Discovery (RFC 8505, RFC 8928) to enable a node that owns or is directly connected to a prefix to
register that prefix to neighbor routers. The registration indicates that the registered prefix can
be reached via the advertising node without a loop. The unicast prefix registration allows the
node to request one or more neighbor routers to redistribute the prefix in another routing
domain regardless of the routing protocol used in that domain. This document updates the
Routing Protocol for Low-Power and Lossy Networks (RPL), as specified in RFCs 6550 and 9010,
to enable a 6LoWPAN Router (6LR) to inject the registered prefix in RPL.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9926
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2026 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Thubert

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9926

Prefix Registration

February 2026

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

2.1.  Requirements Language

2.2.  Inherited Terms and Concepts

2.3.  Acronyms and Initialisms

2.4.  New Terms

3.  Overview

4.  Updating RFC 4861

5.  Updating RFC 7400

6.  Updating RFC 6550

7.  Updating RFC 8505

7.1.  New P-Field Value

7.2.  New EARO Prefix Length Field and F flag

7.3.  New EDAR Prefix Length Field

7.4.  Updating the Registration Operation

8.  Updating RFC 9010

9.  Updating RFC 8928

10. Updating RFC 8929

11. Security Considerations

12. Operational Considerations

12.1.  Partially Upgraded Networks

12.2.  Application to RPL-Based Route-Over LLNs

12.3.  Application to a Shared Link

12.4.  Application to a Hub Link with Stub Spokes

13. IANA Considerations

13.1.  Updated P-Field Registry

3

5

5

5

5

6

6

7

8

8

9

9

10

11

13

15

15

16

16

17

17

17

18

19

20

21

Thubert

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9926

Prefix Registration

February 2026

13.2.  New 6LoWPAN Capability Bit

14. Normative References

15. Informative References

Acknowledgments

Author's Address

21

21

22

24

24

1.  Introduction

The design of Low Power and Lossy Networks (LLNs) is generally focused on saving energy,
which is the most constrained resource of all. Other design constraints (such as a limited
memory capacity, duty cycling of the LLN devices, and low-power lossy transmissions) derive
from that primary concern. The radio (both transmitting or simply listening) is a major energy
drain, and the LLN protocols must be adapted to allow the nodes to remain sleeping with the
radio turned off at most times.

Examples of LLNs include hub-and-spoke access links such as (Low-Power) Wi-Fi
[IEEE802151]
and Bluetooth (Low Energy)
handled at Layer 2 (L2), and route-over networks such as the Wi-SUN
[RFC9030]
over

 mesh networks, which leverage 6LoWPAN

[RFC4919] [RFC6282]

[IEEE802154]
.

[WI-SUN]

 and 6TiSCH

 and RPL

[RFC6550]

, Mesh-Under networks where the routing operation is

[IEEE80211]

LLNs and constrained devices are the original domain of application for 6LoWPAN protocols. It
is thus a foremost concern, when designing those protocols, to minimize energy spendings. In
non-LLN environments where lowering carbon emissions is also a priority, it could make sense
to apply the 6LoWPAN designs and extend some of the 6LoWPAN protocols. The general design
points include:

•

Placing the protocol complexity in the less-constrained routers to simplify the host
implementation and avoid expanding the control traffic to all nodes.

•

Using host-triggered operations to enable transient disconnections with the routers, e.g., to
conserve power (sleep), but also to cope with inconsistent connectivity.

These points translate into:

•

Stateful proactively built knowledge in the routers that is available at any point of time.

•

Unicast host-to-router operations triggered by the host and its applications.

•

Minimal use of asynchronous L2 broadcast operations that would keep the host awake and
listening with no application-level need to do so.

Thubert

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9926

Prefix Registration

February 2026

 routing services within such constraints. To save signaling and routing state in

"RPL: IPv6 Routing Protocol for Low-Power and Lossy Networks"
[RFC8200]
constrained networks, the RPL routing is only performed along a Destination-Oriented Directed
Acyclic Graph (DODAG) that is optimized to reach a Root node, as opposed to along the shortest
path between two peers, whatever that would mean in each LLN.

 provides IPv6

[RFC6550]

[RFC4861] [RFC4862]

The classical Neighbor Discovery Protocol (NDP)
links and shared transit media such as Ethernet at a time when L2 broadcast was cheap on those
media, while memory for neighbor cache was expensive. Thus, it was designed as a reactive
protocol that relies on caching and multicast operations for the Duplicate Address Detection
(DAD) and Address Resolution (AR), aka address discovery or address lookup, of IPv6 unicast
addresses. Those multicast operations typically impact every node on-link when at most one is
really targeted, which is a waste of energy, and imply that all nodes are awake to hear the
request, which is inconsistent with power-saving (sleeping) modes.

 was defined for serial

"Architecture and Framework for IPv6 over Non-Broadcast Access"
an evolution of IPv6 ND towards a proactive AR method. Because the IPv6 model for NBMA
depends on a routing protocol to reach inside the subnet, the IPv6 ND extension for NBMA is
referred to as Subnet Neighbor Discovery (SND). SND is based on work done in the context of
Internet of Things (IoT), known as 6LoWPAN ND. As opposed to the classical IPv6 ND protocol,
this evolution follows the energy conservation principles discussed above:

[IPv6-over-NBMA]

 introduces

•

The original 6LoWPAN ND, "Neighbor Discovery Optimization for IPv6 over Low-Power
, was introduced to avoid the
Wireless Personal Area Networks (6LoWPANs)"
excessive use of multicast messages and enable IPv6 ND for operations over energy-
constrained nodes.
the Neighbor Cache Entry (NCE) associated to the unicast address of a 6LoWPAN Node (6LN)
 defines a
in the one or more 6LoWPAN Routers (6LRs) that serve it. To that effect,
new Address Registration Option (ARO) that is placed in unicast Neighbor Solicitation (NS)
and Neighbor Advertisement (NA) messages between the 6LN and the 6LRs.

 changes the classical IPv6 ND model to proactively establish

[RFC6775]

[RFC6775]

[RFC6775]

•

[RFC8505]

"Registration Extensions for IPv6 over Low-Power Wireless Personal Area Network
(6LoWPAN) Neighbor Discovery>"
Registration mechanism and is the foundation for Subnet Neighbor Discovery (SND). SND
introduces the Extended Address Registration Option (EARO) to enable the registering node
. This
to access services such as routing inside a subnet and ND proxy operations
provides a routing-protocol-agnostic method for a host to request that the router inject a
unicast IPv6 address in the local routing protocol and provide return reachability for that
address.

 into a generic Address

[RFC8929]

[RFC6775]

 updates

•

 updates

[RFC8505]

 to enable a listener to subscribe to an IPv6 anycast or

"Listener Subscription for IPv6 Neighbor Discovery Multicast and Anycast Addresses"
[RFC9685]
multicast address; the document also updates
and multicast addresses in RPL. Similarly, this specification updates
[RFC9010]
 to add the capability for a 6LN to register unicast prefixes up to 120 bits long, as
opposed to addresses, and to signal in a routing-protocol-independent fashion to a 6LR that
it is expected to redistribute the prefixes.

 to enable a 6LR to inject the anycast

[RFC9010]

[RFC8505]

 and

Thubert

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9926

Prefix Registration

February 2026

This specification updates the above registration and subscription methods to enable a node to
register a unicast prefix to the routing system and get it injected in the routing protocol. As with
[RFC8505]
the prefix, and the router is agnostic to the method that was used to allocate the prefix to the
 are retained as well, meaning that the
node. The energy conservation principles in
node does not have to send or expect asynchronous multicast messages.

, the prefix registration is agnostic to the routing protocol in which the router injects

[RFC8505]

Please note that an energy-conserving node is not necessarily a router, so even when a node is
advertising a prefix, it is a design choice not to use Router Advertisement (RA) messages that
would make the node appear as a router to peer nodes. From the design principles above, it is
clearly a design choice not to leverage (1) broadcasts from or to the node or (2) complex state
machines in the node. It is also a design choice to use and extend the EARO as opposed to the
Route Information Option (RIO)
 because the RIO is not intended to inject routes in
routing, and is lacking related control information like the R bit in the EARO. Additionally, an RA
with RIO cannot be trusted for a safe injection in the routing protocol for the lack of the
equivalent of the Registration Ownership Verifier (ROVR)

 in the EARO.

[RFC8928]

[RFC4191]

2.  Terminology

2.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.2.  Inherited Terms and Concepts

This document uses terms and concepts that are discussed in:

•

"Neighbor Discovery for IP version 6 (IPv6)"

[RFC4861]

 and

•

"IPv6 Stateless Address Autoconfiguration"

[RFC4862]

 for the Neighbor Solicitation operation,

•

"Neighbor Discovery Optimization for IPv6 over Low-Power Wireless Personal Area
Networks (6LoWPANs)"

, as well as

[RFC6775]

•

"Registration Extensions for IPv6 over Low-Power Wireless Personal Area Network
(6LoWPAN) Neighbor Discovery"

[RFC8505]

, and

•

"RPL: IPv6 Routing Protocol for Low-Power and Lossy Networks"
the routing protocol used in LLNs for SND.

[RFC6550]

 for RPL, which is

2.3.  Acronyms and Initialisms

This document uses the following abbreviations:

6CIO:
6LBR:

6LoWPAN Capability Indication Option
6LoWPAN Border Router

[RFC6775]

[RFC7400]

Thubert

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9926

Prefix Registration

February 2026

6LN:
6LR:
ARO:
DAD:
DAO:
DODAG:
EARO:
EDAC:
EDAR:
ESS:
IPAM:
LLN:
LLA:
LoWPAN:
LR-WPAN:
MAC:
NA:
NBMA:
NCE:
ND:
NDP:
NS:
ROVR:
RPL:
RA:
RS:
RTO:
SLLAO:
SND:
TID:
TIO:
TLLAO:

[RFC8505]

[RFC8505]

[RFC8505]

[RFC6775]

[IEEE80211]

[RFC6775]
[RFC4861]

6LoWPAN Node
[RFC6775]
6LoWPAN Router
Address Registration Option
Duplicate Address Detection
[RFC6550]
Destination Advertisement Object
Destination-Oriented Directed Acyclic Graph
Extended Address Registration Option
Extended Duplicate Address Confirmation
Extended Duplicate Address Request
Extended Service Set
IP Address Management
Low-Power and Lossy Network
Link-Layer Address
Low-Power Wireless Personal Area Network
Low-Rate Wireless Personal Area Network
Medium Access Control
Neighbor Advertisement (message)
Non-Broadcast Multi-Access (full mesh)
Neighbor Cache Entry
Neighbor Discovery (protocol)
Neighbor Discovery Protocol
Neighbor Solicitation (message)
Registration Ownership Verifier (pronounced "rover")
IPv6 Routing Protocol for LLNs (pronounced "ripple")
Router Advertisement (message)
Router Solicitation (message)
[RFC6550]
RPL Target Option
Source Link-Layer Address Option
Subnet Neighbor Discovery (protocol)
Transaction ID
Transit Information Option
Target Link-Layer Address Option

[RFC8505]

[RFC4861]

[RFC4861]

[RFC4861]

[RFC4861]

[RFC4861]

[RFC4861]

[RFC6550]

[RFC4861]

[IEEE802154]

[RFC8505]
[RFC6550]

2.4.  New Terms

This document introduces the following term:

Origin:

The node that issued the prefix advertisement, either in the form of a NS(EARO) or as a

DAO(TIO, RTO)

3.  Overview

This specification inherits from
opposed to addresses.

[RFC6550] [RFC8505]
,

, and

[RFC9010]

 to register prefixes as

Thubert

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9926

Prefix Registration

February 2026

The IPv6 ND operation is agnostic to the routing protocol used in the SND. Route-over LLNs
typically leverage RPL. A RPL-based SND deployment consists of:

•

one or more 6LBRs that act as RPL Root,

•

intermediate routers down the RPL graph that propagate routing information on addresses
and prefixes towards the Root,

•

6LRs that are RPL-aware 6LNs and can leverage RPL directly to expose their addresses and
prefixes, and

•

6LNs that are the RPL-unaware destinations and need SND to obtain reachability over the
RPL LLN for their addresses and, with this specification, their prefixes as well.

The SND operation for prefixes inherits from that for unicast addresses, meaning that it is the
same unless specified otherwise herein. In particular, forwarding a packet happens as specified
in
multicast, multiple copies might be generated.

, including loop avoidance and detection. However, in the case of

Section 11 of [RFC6550]

 is a prerequisite to this specification. A node that implements this

[RFC8505]
implement
options and updates the associated behaviors to enable the registration for prefixes as an
extension to

. This specification does not introduce a new option; it modifies existing

[RFC8505]
.

[RFC8505]

MUST

 also

This specification updates the P-Field introduced in
 for use in EARO, DAR, and RTO,
with the new value of 3 to indicate the registration of a prefix, as detailed in Section 7.2. With
this extension, the 6LN can now express its willingness to receive the traffic for all addresses in
the range of a prefix, using the P-Field value of 3 in the EARO to signal that the registration is for
such prefix. Multiple 6LNs acting as border routers to the same external network or as access
routers to the same subnet may register the same prefix to the same 6LR or to different 6LRs.

[RFC9685]

If the R flag is set in the registration of one or more 6LNs for the same prefix, then, according to
its redistribution policy, the 6LR
that it participates in. The duration of the redistribution is based on the longest registration
lifetime across the non-expired received registrations for the prefix.`

 redistribute the prefix in the routing protocol(s) (e.g., RPL)

MUST

Examples of use cases where this specification may apply include virtual links, shared links, and
hub links as shown in Sections 12.3 and 12.4, respectively. More generally, the 6LN may be a
router running a different routing protocol in an external network, e.g., a stub network, and
acting as a border router. Using the prefix registration method enables decoupling the routing
protocol in the 6LN from the routing protocol that the 6LRs run in the main LLN and provide
signaling to stimulate the redistribution.

4.  Updating RFC 4861

[RFC4861]
Target Address field of the ND message.
Registered Address in the Target Address field.

 expects that the NS/NA exchange is for a unicast address, which is indicated in the
Section 5.5 of [RFC8505]

[RFC4861]

 extends

 to signal the

Thubert

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9926

Prefix Registration

February 2026

This specification updates
Address field when the NS or NA message is used for a registration, per
In that case, the prefix length
field that is used in the NA response for the Status.

Section 5.5 of [RFC8505]
.
 be indicated in the EARO of the NS message, overloading the

 by allowing a 6LN to advertise a prefix in the Target

[RFC4861]

MUST

If the 6LN owns at least one IPv6 address that is derived from the registered prefix with a non-
zero interface ID, then it
 indicate one of these addresses in full in the Target Address field
of the NS(EARO) message. Else, it
Address field.

 indicate the prefix padded with zeros in the Target

MUST

MUST

5.  Updating RFC 7400

This specification updates "6LoWPAN-GHC: Generic Header Compression for IPv6 over Low-
Power Wireless Personal Area Networks (6LoWPANs)"
[RFC7400]
bit for use in the 6CIO.
messages.

 by defining a new capability
 for use in IPv6 ND

 was already extended by

[RFC8505]

[RFC7400]

The new "Registration for prefixes supported" (F) flag indicates to the 6LN that the 6LR (1)
accepts IPv6 prefix registrations as specified in this document, (2) will ensure that packets for
the addresses that match this prefix will be routed to the 6LNs that registered the prefix, and (3)
will ensure that the route to the prefix will be redistributed if the R flag is set to 1.

Figure 1 illustrates the F flag in its position (16, counting 0 to 47 in network order in the 48-bit
array).

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|     Type      |   Length = 1  | Experimental  |X|A|D|L|B|P|E|G|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|F|                         Reserved                            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 1: New Capability Bit in the 6CIO

New Option Field:

F:

1-bit flag, set to 1 to indicate "Registration for prefixes supported"

6.  Updating RFC 6550

 uses the Path Sequence in the Transit Information Option (TIO) to retain only the

[RFC6550]
freshest unicast route and remove stale ones, e.g., in the case of mobility.
 copies the
TID from the EARO into the Path Sequence, and the ROVR field into the associated RPL Target

[RFC9010]

Thubert

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9926

Prefix Registration

February 2026

Option (RTO). This way, it is possible to identify both the registering node and the order of
registration in RPL for each individual advertisement, so the most recent path and lifetime
values are used.

 requires the use of the ROVR field as the indication of the origin of a Target

[RFC9685]
advertisement in the RPL DAO messages, as specified in
. For anycast
and multicast advertisements (in NS or DAO messages), multiple origins may subscribe to the
same address, in which case the multiple advertisements from the different or unknown origins
are merged by the common parent. In that case, the common parent becomes the origin of the
merged advertisements and uses its own ROVR value. On the other hand, a parent that
propagates an advertisement from a single origin uses the original ROVR in the propagated RTO,
as it does for unicast address advertisements, so the origin is recognized across multiple hops.

Section 6.1 of [RFC9010]

[RFC6550]

This specification updates
between and only between advertisements for the same Target and from the same origin (i.e.,
with the same ROVR value); in that case, only the freshest advertisement is retained. However,
the freshness comparison cannot apply if the origin is not determined (i.e., the origin did not
support this specification).

 to require that, for prefix routes, the Path Sequence is used

 uses the Path Lifetime in the TIO to indicate the remaining time for which the

[RFC6550]
advertisement is valid for unicast route determination, and a Path Lifetime value of 0
invalidates that route.
Path Lifetime in the TIO so they are comparable when both forms of advertisements are
received.

 maps the Address Registration lifetime in the EARO and the

[RFC9010]

The RPL router that merges multiple advertisements for the same prefix
 use and advertise
the longest remaining lifetime across all the origins of the advertisements for that prefix. When
the lifetime expires, the router sends a no-path DAO message (i.e., the lifetime is 0) using the
same value for the ROVR value as for the previous advertisements. This value refers to either the
single descendant that advertised the Target if there is only one or the router itself if there is
more than one.

MUST

Note that the Registration Lifetime, TID, and ROVR fields are also placed in the EDAR message, so
the state created by EDAR is also comparable with that created upon an NS(EARO) or a DAO
message. For simplicity, the text below mentions only NS(EARO) but it also applies to EDAR.

7.  Updating RFC 8505

This specification updates the EARO and EDAR messages to enable the registration of prefixes
and updates the registration operation in the case of a prefix, in particular from the standpoint
of the 6LR, e.g., to enable the registration of overlapping prefixes.

7.1.  New P-Field Value

[RFC9685]
This specification defines the semantics of P-Field value 3.

 defines a 2-bit P-Field with values 0 through 2 and reserves the value 3 for future use.

Thubert

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9926

Prefix Registration

February 2026

When the P-Field is set to 3, it indicates that the Registered Address represents a prefix rather
than a single address. Upon receiving an NS(EARO) message with the P-Field set to 3, the receiver
 install a route to the indicated prefix via the source address of the NS(EARO) message.
MUST

This specification assigns the value 3 to the P-Field, resulting in the following complete set of
defined values:

Value Meaning

0

1

2

3

Registration for a Unicast Address

Registration for a Multicast Address

Registration for an Anycast Address

Registration for a Unicast Prefix

Table 1: P-Field Values

7.2.  New EARO Prefix Length Field and F flag

Section 4.1 of [RFC8505]
[RFC6775]
.

 defines the EARO as an extension to the ARO option defined in

The Status field is used only when the EARO is placed in an NA message. This specification
repurposes that field to carry the prefix length when the EARO is placed in an NS message as
illustrated in Figure 2. The prefix length is expressed as 7 bits, and the most significant bit of the
field is reserved. A 7-bit value of 0 is understood as a truncated 128, meaning that this
registration is for an address as opposed to a prefix. This approach is backward compatible with
[RFC8505]

 and spans both addresses and prefixes.

This specification adds a new F flag to signal that the Registered Prefix is topologically correct
through the Registering Node. This means that the Registering Node relays packets that are
sourced in the Registered Prefix to the outside, in accordance with "Network Ingress Filtering:
Defeating Denial of Service Attacks which employ IP Source Address Spoofing"
receiver forwards packets to the Registering Node address when the source address of the
packets derives from the Registered Prefix. Note that to avoid loops, the receiver must be in the
inside so packets sent by the sender towards the outside may never reach the receiver. The
notion of "inside" and "outside" are administratively defined, e.g., "inside" is a particular L2
network such as an Ethernet fabric.

[BCP38]

. The

When the F flag is not set, the Registering Node owns the prefix and will deliver packets to the
destination if the destination address derives from the prefix. Conversely, if the F flag is set, the
Registering Node will forward traffic whose source address derives from the Registered Prefix
into a network location (e.g., to an ISP Provider Edge) where this source address is topologically
correct (e.g., derives from a prefix assigned by that ISP). The F flag is encoded in the most
significant bit of the EARO Status field when the Status field is used to transport a Prefix Length
as shown in Figure 2.

Thubert

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9926

Prefix Registration

February 2026

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |     Type      |     Length    |F|Prefix Length|    Opaque     |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |r|C| P | I |R|T|     TID       |     Registration Lifetime     |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                                                               |
 ...                            ROVR                             ...
  |                                                               |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 2: EARO Format for Use in NS Messages

New and updated Option Fields:

F: (Forwarding Flag)

A 1-bit flag. When set to 1, it indicates that the sender expects other

routers to forward packets to the sender when those packets are sourced from within the
registered prefix.

Prefix Length:

A 7-bit unsigned integer. When the P-Field is set to 3 and the EARO is included in

MUST

an NS message, this field
inclusive range of 16 to 120. When the EARO is included in an NA message, this field
carry a status value, regardless of the setting of the P-Field. In all other cases, this field is
reserved; it

 contain a prefix length expressed in bits, with a value in the

 be set to zero by the sender and

 be ignored by the receiver.

MUST

MUST

MUST

r (reserved):

A 1-bit reserved field. It

MUST

 be set to zero by the sender and

MUST

 be ignored by

the receiver.

7.3.  New EDAR Prefix Length Field

This specification adds the new value of 3 to the P-Field to signal that the Registered Address is a
prefix. When that is the case, the prefix is assumed to be at most 120 bits long, padded with zeros
up to 120 bits, and the remaining byte is dedicated to one reserved bit and the Prefix Length.

Figure 3 illustrates the EDAR message when the value of the P-Field is 3. Figure 4 shows the
response EDAC message, with the Status field and the echoed Prefix.

Thubert

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9926

Prefix Registration

February 2026

  0                   1                   2                   3
  0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |     Type      |CodePfx|CodeSfx|          Checksum             |
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |P=3| Reserved  |     TID       |     Registration Lifetime     |
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |                                                               |
...                          ROVR                               ...
 |                                                               |
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |                                                               |
 +                           Prefix                              +
 |                                                               |
 +              (up to 120 bits, padded with zeros)              +
 |                                                               |
 +                                               +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |                                               |r|Prefix Length|
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |   Options ...
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-

Figure 3: EDAR Message Format with P == 3

  0                   1                   2                   3
  0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |     Type      |CodePfx|CodeSfx|          Checksum             |
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |    Status     |     TID       |     Registration Lifetime     |
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |                                                               |
...                          ROVR                               ...
 |                                                               |
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |                                                               |
 +                           Prefix                              +
 |                                                               |
 +              (up to 120 bits, padded with zeros)              +
 |                                                               |
 +                                               +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |                                               |r|Prefix Length|
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |   Options ...
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-

Figure 4: EDAC Message Format

New and updated EDAR/EDAC Message Fields:

Prefix:

A 15-byte field that carries up to 120 bits of the prefix. If the prefix is shorter than 120
 treat the padding as
 be padded with zeros. The receiver

MUST

MUST

 overwrite any unused bits with zeros before using the prefix.

bits, the remaining bits
zeroed and

MUST

Thubert

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9926

Prefix Registration

February 2026

r (reserved):

A 1-bit reserved field. It

MUST

 be set to zero by the sender and

MUST

 be ignored by

the receiver.

Prefix Length:

A 7-bit unsigned integer indicating the length of the prefix in bits. The value

MUST

 be in the inclusive range of 16 to 120.

The capability to place the P-Field and the contiguous "Reserved" field in the EDAR message is
specified in

Section 7.2 of [RFC9685]
.

The capability to append ND options to the EDAR and EDAC messages is introduced in
of [RFC8929]
.

Section 3.1

All other fields follow the same definition as specified in
and RFC references are maintained by IANA under the "Internet Control Message Protocol
version 6 (ICMPv6) Parameters"

 registry group.

. The values for these fields

[IANA.ICMP]

[RFC8505]

7.4.  Updating the Registration Operation

With

[RFC8505]
:

•

A router that expects to reboot may send a final RA message, upon which nodes should
register elsewhere or redo the registration to the same router upon reboot. In all other
cases, a node reboot is silent. When the node comes back to life, existing registration state
might be lost if it was not safely stored, e.g., in persistent memory.

•

Only unicast addresses can be registered.

•

The 6LN must register all its Unique Local Addresses (ULAs) and Global Unicast Addresses
(GUAs) with a NS(EARO).

•

The 6LN may set the R flag in the EARO to obtain return reachability services from the 6LR,
e.g., through ND proxy operations or by injecting the route in a route-over subnet.

•

The 6LR maintains a registration state per Registered Address, including an NCE with the
Link Layer Address (LLA) of the Registered Node (the 6LN here).

The operation for registering prefixes is similar to that for addresses from the perspective of the
6LN, but shows important differences on the router side, which maintains a separate state for
each origin and merges them in its own advertisements. This specification adds the following
behavior, similar to that introduced by

 for multicast addresses:

[RFC9685]

•

The EARO status indicating a "Registration Refresh Request" applies to prefixes as well.

This status is used in asynchronous NA(EARO) messages to indicate to peer 6LNs that they
are requested to reregister all addresses and prefixes that were previously registered to the
originating node. The NA message
 be sent to a unicast or a multicast link-scope address
and
 be contained within the L2 range where nodes may effectively have registered/
subscribed to this router, e.g., a radio broadcast domain to preserve energy and spectrum.

SHOULD

MAY

A device that wishes to refresh its state, e.g., upon reboot if it may have lost some
registration state,
SHOULD
asynchronous NA(EARO)

 send an asynchronous NA(EARO) with this new status value. That
 be sent to the all-nodes link-scope multicast address
SHOULD

Thubert

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9926

Prefix Registration

February 2026

(ff02::1), and Target
node to accept registrations, and the TID
zeros and ignored by the receiver.

MUST

 be set to the link-local address that was exposed previously by this
 be set to 0; the ROVR field

 be set to all

MUST

MUST

In an environment with unreliable transmissions, the multicast NA(EARO) message may be
resent in a fast sequence, in which case the TID is incremented each time. A 6LN that has
recently processed the NA(EARO) indicating a "Registration Refresh Request" ignores the
additional NA(EARO) also indicating a "Registration Refresh Request" within the duration of
the fast sequence. That duration depends on the environment and has to be configured. By
default, it is 10 seconds.

•

Registration for prefixes is now supported. The value of 3 in the P-Field of the EARO and the
EDAR message signals when the registration is for a prefix as opposed to an address. DAD
for prefixes and addresses becomes a prefix overlap match. Whether overlapping addresses
and prefixes may be registered is a network policy decision and out of scope. The same
prefix may be injected twice (multiple routes) as long as they use the same value of the
ROVR.

Overlaps may be desirable. For instance, it may happen that a router or a proxy (see Section
10) registers a prefix or an aggregation while a host using an address from that prefix or a
prefix from that aggregation also registers its piece.

In case of an overlapping registration, the longest prefix match wins, meaning that if the
network policy allows for overlapping registrations, then the routes for the registered
prefixes are installed towards the node that registered with the longest prefix match, all the
way to /128.

•

MUST

If the 6LR acts as a border router to external prefixes or owns the prefixes entirely, it
 register all those prefixes on all interfaces from which it might be needed to relay
SHOULD
 set the P-Field in the EARO to 3 for those prefixes and set the R
traffic to that prefix. It
flag to receive the traffic associated to the prefixes. It
 refrain from registering a prefix
on one interface if that prefix is already successfully registered on another interface, or the
router handled the EDAR/EDAC flow by itself, to ensure that the prefix ownership is known
and validated by the 6LBR. Additionally, if the router expects to receive traffic for that prefix
on that interface, it needs to ensure that the prefix is advertised some other way, e.g., over a
routing protocol such as RPL.

MAY

•

MAY

The 6LN
links using a routing protocol. The 6LR
unless loops are avoided some way, e.g., following a tree structure.

 set the R flag in the EARO to request the 6LR to redistribute the prefix on other
 reregister that prefix to yet another router

MUST NOT

•

The 6LR and the 6LBR are extended to accept more than one registration for the same
prefix, since multiple 6LNs may register it. The ROVR in the EARO identifies uniquely a
registration within the namespace of the Registered Prefix.

•

 maintain a registration state per tuple (IPv6 prefix, prefix length, ROVR) for

The 6LR
MUST
all registered prefixes. It
determined that the 6LBR is legacy and does not support this specification (see Section 5). In
turn, the 6LBR
prefixes.

 maintain a registration state per tuple (IPv6 prefix, ROVR) for all

 notify the 6LBR with an EDAR message, unless it

SHOULD

MUST

Thubert

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9926

Prefix Registration

February 2026

8.  Updating RFC 9010

With

[RFC9010]
:

•

The 6LR injects only unicast routes in RPL.

•

Upon a registration with the R flag set to 1 in the EARO, the 6LR injects the address in the
RPL unicast support.

•

Upon receiving a packet directed to a unicast address for which it has an active registration,
the 6LR delivers the packet as a unicast L2 frame to the LLA of the node that registered the
unicast address.

This specification adds the following behavior:

•

Upon a registration with the R flag set to 1 and the P-Field set to 3 in the EARO, the 6LR
injects the prefix in RPL using a prefix RTO. The P-Field in the RTP

 be set to 3.

MUST

•

Upon receiving a packet directed to an address that derives from a prefix for which it has at
least one registration, the 6LR delivers a copy of the packet as a unicast L2 frame to the LLA
of exactly one of the nodes that registered to that prefix, using the longest prefix match
derivation to find the best 6LN.

9.  Updating RFC 8928

"Address-Protected Neighbor Discovery for Low-Power and Lossy Networks"
defined to protect the ownership of unicast IPv6 addresses that are registered with

[RFC8928]

 was
[RFC8505]
.

With Address-Protected Neighbor Discovery (AP-ND)
autoconfigure a pair of public and private keys and use them to sign the registration of
addresses that are either autoconfigured or obtained through other methods.

, it is possible for a node to

[RFC8928]

The first-hop router (the 6LR) can then validate a registration and perform source address
validation on packets coming from the sender node (the 6LN).

As multiple nodes may register the same prefix, the method specified in
used with node-local autoconfigured keypairs, which protect a single ownership only.

[RFC8928]

 cannot be

 to enforce the right to register. If AP-ND

For a prefix, as for an anycast or a multicast address, it is still possible to leverage AP-ND
[RFC8928]
 be generated
and associated with the prefix before the prefix is deployed, and a ROVR
from that keypair as specified in
 then be installed in
the 6LBR at the first registration, or by an external mechanism such as IP Address Management
(IPAM) or DHCPv6 snooping prior to the first registration. This way, the 6LBR can recognize the
prefix on the future registrations and validate the right to register based on the ROVR.

. The prefix and the ROVR

 is used, a keypair

[RFC8928]

[RFC8928]

MUST

MUST

MUST

 be created

The keypair
within, so the node can follow the steps in

MUST

[RFC8928]

 to register the prefix.

 then be provisioned in each node that needs to register the prefix or a prefix

Thubert

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9926

Prefix Registration

February 2026

Upon receiving an NA message with the status set to 5 "Validation Requested", the node that
registered the address or prefix performs the proof of ownership based on that longest prefix
match.

10.  Updating RFC 8929

[RFC8929]

 defines a proxy operation whereby a 6LoWPAN Border

"IPv6 Backbone Router"
Router (6LBR) may impersonate a 6LN when performing an address registration. In that case,
[RFC8505]
messages indicates the Registering Node (the 6LBR) as opposed to the Registered Node (the 6LN).
See Figure 5 of
NS(EARO) upon receiving an EDAR message.

 messages are used as is, with one change that the SLLAO in the proxied NS(EARO)

 for an example of proxy operation by the 6LBR, which generates an

[RFC8929]

This specification updates that proxy operation with the updates in
formats and content of the EARO, EDAR, and EDAC messages in order to support the P-Field and
the signaling of prefixes. The proxy
message to generate the proxied NS(EARO), and it
length as received in the case of a prefix registration.

 use the P-Field as received in the EDAR or NS(EARO)

 use the exact same prefix and prefix

 and defines the

[RFC9685]

MUST

MUST

11.  Security Considerations

This specification updates
apply to this document. In particular, the link layer
rogue access, else a rogue node with physical access to the network may inject packets and
perform an attack from within.

, and the security considerations of that document also

 be sufficiently protected to prevent

[RFC8505]

SHOULD

[RFC8928]

 to prevent a rogue node from registering a unicast address
Section 9 leverages AP-ND
that it does not own. The mechanism could be extended to anycast and multicast addresses if the
values of the ROVR they use are known in advance, but how this is done is not in scope for this
specification. One way would be to authorize in advance the ROVR of the valid users. A less
preferred way could be to synchronize the ROVR and TID values across the valid registering
nodes as a preshared key material.

In the latter case, it could be possible to update the keys associated to a prefix in all the 6LNs, but
the flow is not clearly documented and may not complete in due time for all nodes in LLN use
cases. It may be simpler to install an all-new address with new keys over a period of time and
switch the traffic to that address when the migration is complete.

Thubert

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9926

Prefix Registration

February 2026

12.  Operational Considerations

12.1.  Partially Upgraded Networks

Devices may coexist while providing different support (i.e., only
[RFC9685]

, or those two as well as this specification). The following cases may occur:

[RFC8505]

, both

[RFC8505]

 and

•

A legacy 6LN will not register prefixes, and the service will be the same when the network is
upgraded.

•

A legacy 6LR will not set the F flag in the 6CIO and an upgraded 6LN will not register
prefixes with that router, though it may with other 6LRs that do support this specification.

•

Upon an EDAR message, a legacy 6LBR may not realize that the address being registered
comes with a whole prefix, and return that it is duplicate in the EDAC status. The 6LR
ignore a duplicate status in the EDAR for prefixes.

MUST

12.2.  Application to RPL-Based Route-Over LLNs

 in the case of a route-over multilink
This specification also updates
subnet based on the RPL routing protocol, to add multicast ingress replication in Non-Storing
Mode and anycast support in both Storing and Non-Storing modes. A 6LR that implements the
 also implement
RPL extensions specified therein

[RFC9010]
.

[RFC9010]

[RFC6550]

MUST

 and

Figure 5 illustrates the classical situation of an LLN as a single IPv6 subnet, with a 6LoWPAN
Border Router (6LBR) that acts as Root for RPL operations and as Address Registrar for
6LoWPAN ND.

Thubert

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9926

Prefix Registration

February 2026

         .- -- .
      .-(        ).
     (   Internet   )
    (___.________.___)
              |
   ---+-------+--
      |
    +--------+
    |  6LBR  |
    | (Root) |
    +--------+
    o   o  o  o
      o   o  o
 o  o  o       o  o  o
 o  o  o  LLN   o   +-------+
   o  o          o  |  6LR  | RPL Router
   o o    o   o     +-------+
   o  o    o  o          +-------+  RPL
          o              |  6LN  |  leaf
                         +-------+  L

  o : LLN node

Figure 5: RPL-Based Route-Over LLN

 and

[RFC9685]

[RFC8505]

A RPL leaf L acting as a 6LN registers its addresses and prefixes to a RPL router acting as a 6LR,
using a L2 unicast NS message with an EARO as specified in
. Note that
a RPL leaf acting as 6LN may still be a border router for another routing protocol, an access
router for an IP link, or a virtual Router serving virtual machines or applications within the
same physical node. Note also that a RPL-aware Leaf would preferably leverage RPL directly to
inject routes, to fully leverage the routing protocol. The registration state is periodically renewed
by the Registering Node (the 6LN), before the lifetime indicated in the EARO expires (at the 6LR).
As for unicast IPv6 addresses, the 6LR uses an Extended Duplicate Address Request/
Confirmation (EDAR/EDAC) exchange with the 6LBR to notify the 6LBR of the presence of the
listeners. With this specification, a router that owns a prefix or provides reachability to an
external prefix but is not a RPL router can also register those prefixes with the R flag set, to
enable reachability to the prefix within the RPL domain.

12.3.  Application to a Shared Link

A shared link is a situation where more than one prefix is deployed over an L2 link (say, a
switched Ethernet fabric or a Wi-Fi Extended Service Set (ESS) federating multiple Access Points
(APs)), and not necessarily all nodes are aware of all prefixes. Figure 6 depicts such a situation,
with two routers 6LR1 and 6LR2 that own respective prefixes P1:: and P2:: and expose those in
their RA messages over the same link. Note that the shared link maybe operated with any
combination of NDP and SND as discussed in

Section 7 of [IPv6-over-NBMA]
.

Thubert

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9926

Prefix Registration

February 2026

         .- -- .
      .-(        ).
     (   Internet   )
    (___.________.___)
          |
     +----+--+          +-------+
     | P1::a |          | P2::b |
     | 6LR1  |          | 6LR2  |
     +---+---+          +---+---+
         |                  |
  ----+--+------+---------+-+-------+---------+----
      |         |         |         |         |
   +--+--+   +--+--+   +--+--+   +--+--+   +--+--+
   |P1::c|   |P2::d|   |P2::e|   |P1::f|   |P1::g|
   +-----+   +-----+   +-----+   +-----+   +-----+

Figure 6: Shared Link

Say that 6LR1 is the router providing access to the outside, and 6LR2 is aware of 6LR1 as its
default gateway. With this specification, 6LR2 registers P2:: to 6LR1, and 6LR1 installs a route to
P2:: via 6LR2. This way, addresses that derive from P2:: can still be reached via 6LR1 and then
6LR2. 6LR2 may then leverage ICMP Redirect messages
 to shorten the path between
6LR1 and the nodes that own those addresses.

[RFC4861]

If P2 were delegated by 6LR1, e.g., using DHCPv6
aggregates P1:: and P2:: in its advertisements to the outside, and there is no need to set the R flag.
However, unless 6LR2 knows about such a situation, e.g., through configuration, 6LR2
set the R flag requesting 6LR1 to advertise P2:: so as to obtain reachability.

, then the expectation is that 6LR1

[RFC9915]

SHOULD

12.4.  Application to a Hub Link with Stub Spokes

A hub link is a situation where stub links are deployed around a backbone and interconnected
by routers. Figure 7 depicts such a situation, with one router 6LR1 serving the hub link and at
least one router like 6LR2 and 6LR3 providing connectivity from the stub links to the hub link. In
this example, say that there is one prefix on each link -- P1:: on the hub link, and P2:: and P3:: on
the stub links.

Thubert

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9926

Prefix Registration

February 2026

   +-----+   +-----+   +-----+       +-----+
   |P2::s|   |P2::d|   |P2::e|       |P2::f|
   +--+--+   +--+--+   +--+--+       +--+--+
      |         |         |             |
  ----+----+----+---------+--STUB-LINK--+-----
           |
       +---+---+              +-------+
       | P2::r |              |       |        .- --..
       | 6LR2  |              | 6LR1  +---- .-(       ).
       | P1::b |              | P1::a |   (   Internet  )
       +---+---+              +---+---+  (___._______.___)
           |                      |              |
  -------+-+---------+--HUB-LINK--+-----+--      |
         |           |                  |        |
     +---+---+    +--+--+           +---+---+    |
     | P1::c |    |P1::n|           | P1::q |    |
     | 6LR3  |    +-----+           | 6LR4  +----+
     | P3::m |                      | P3::a |
     +---+---+                      +---+---+
         |                              |
  ----+--+------+---------+--STUB-LINK--+-+-----
      |         |         |               |
   +--+--+   +--+--+   +--+--+         +--+--+
   |P3::h|   |P3::i|   |P3::j|         |P3::k|
   +-----+   +-----+   +-----+         +-----+

Figure 7: Hub and Stubs

As before, say that 6LR1 is the router providing access to the outside, and 6LR2 is aware of 6LR1
as its default gateway. With this specification, 6LR2 registers P2:: to 6LR1, and 6LR1 installs a
route to P2:: via 6LR2. This way, nodes on the stub link behind 6LR2 that derive their addresses
from P2:: can still be reached via 6LR1 and then 6LR2. The same goes for 6LR3 and any other
routers serving stub links.

If P2 were delegated by 6LR1, then the expectation is that 6LR1 aggregates P1:: and P2:: in its
advertisements to the outside, and there is no need to set the R flag. However, unless 6LR2
knows about such a situation, e.g., through configuration, 6LR2
6LR1 to advertise P2:: so as to obtain reachability.

SHOULD

 set the R flag requesting

In this example, routers 6LR3 and 6LR4 both connect to the same stub link where subnet P3 is
installed. They may both register P3 to 6LR1, and 6LR1 will apply its own load-balancing logic to
use either of the routers.

13.  IANA Considerations

IANA has made changes under the "Internet Control Message Protocol version 6 (ICMPv6)
Parameters"
[IANA.RPL]

 and the "Routing Protocol for Low Power and Lossy Networks (RPL)"

 registry groups, as follows.

[IANA.ICMP]

Thubert

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9926

Prefix Registration

February 2026

13.1.  Updated P-Field Registry

This specification updates the P-Field introduced in
 to assign the value of 3, which is
the only remaining unassigned value for the 2-bit field. To that effect, IANA has updated the "P-
Field Values" registry in the "Internet Control Message Protocol version 6 (ICMPv6) Parameters"
registry group as indicated in Table 2:

[RFC9685]

Value Meaning

Reference

3

Registration for a Unicast Prefix

RFC 9926

Table 2: New P-Field Value

13.2.  New 6LoWPAN Capability Bit

IANA has made an addition to the "6LoWPAN Capability Bits"
"Internet Control Message Protocol version 6 (ICMPv6) Parameters" registry group as indicated in
Table 3:

[IANA.ICMP.6CIO]

 registry in the

IANA has fixed the description of bit 9 (the "A" flag defined in
"A".

[RFC8928]

). It is not called "1" but

Bit Description

9

AP-ND Enabled (A bit)

Reference

[RFC8928]

16

Registration for prefixes supported (F bit)

RFC 9926

Table 3: New 6LoWPAN Capability Bit

14.  Normative References

[IANA.ICMP]

,

IANA "Internet Control Message Protocol version 6 (ICMPv6) Parameters"
<https://www.iana.org/assignments/icmpv6-parameters>

.

,

[IANA.ICMP.6CIO]

IANA "6LoWPAN Capability Bits" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/

,

,
icmpv6-parameters>

.

[IANA.RPL]

[RFC2119]

[RFC4861]

,

IANA "Routing Protocol for Low Power and Lossy Networks (RPL)" <https://
www.iana.org/assignments/rpl>

.

,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Narten, T. Nordmark, E. Simpson, W.
IP version 6 (IPv6)" RFC 4861 DOI 10.17487/RFC4861
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4861>

, and

,

,

.

H. Soliman "Neighbor Discovery for
,
<https://
, September 2007,

Thubert

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9926

Prefix Registration

February 2026

[RFC4862]

[RFC6550]

[RFC6775]

[RFC7400]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8200]

[RFC8505]

[RFC8928]

[RFC8929]

[RFC9010]

[RFC9685]

,

Thomson, S. Narten, T.
, and
Autoconfiguration" RFC 4862 DOI 10.17487/RFC4862
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4862>

T. Jinmei "IPv6 Stateless Address
,

,

,

.

, September 2007,

<https://

,

Winter, T., Ed. Thubert, P., Ed. Brandt, A. Hui, J. Kelsey, R. Levis, P. Pister, K.
,
Struik, R. Vasseur, JP.
R. Alexander "RPL: IPv6 Routing Protocol for Low-
,
Power and Lossy Networks" RFC 6550 DOI 10.17487/RFC6550
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6550>

, March 2012,

, and

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

Shelby, Z., Ed. Chakrabarti, S. Nordmark, E.
C. Bormann "Neighbor
,
Discovery Optimization for IPv6 over Low-Power Wireless Personal Area
Networks (6LoWPANs)" RFC 6775 DOI 10.17487/RFC6775
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6775>

, November 2012,

, and

,

,

,

.

,

Bormann, C. "6LoWPAN-GHC: Generic Header Compression for IPv6 over Low-
Power Wireless Personal Area Networks (6LoWPANs)" RFC 7400 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7400

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7400>

, November 2014,

,

,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Deering, S.
86 RFC 8200 DOI 10.17487/RFC8200
rfc8200>

 and
,

,

,

.

R. Hinden "Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6) Specification" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, July 2017,

,

,

Thubert, P., Ed. Nordmark, E. Chakrabarti, S.
Extensions for IPv6 over Low-Power Wireless Personal Area Network
(6LoWPAN) Neighbor Discovery" RFC 8505 DOI 10.17487/RFC8505
,
2018,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8505>

, and

,

.

,

C. Perkins "Registration

,

, November

,

Thubert, P., Ed. Sarikaya, B. Sethi, M.
R. Struik "Address-Protected
Neighbor Discovery for Low-Power and Lossy Networks" RFC 8928 DOI
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8928>
10.17487/RFC8928

, November 2020,

, and

,

,

,

.

,

Thubert, P., Ed. Perkins, C.E.
8929 DOI 10.17487/RFC8929
,
rfc8929>

.

, and
, November 2020,

E. Levy-Abegnoli "IPv6 Backbone Router" RFC

,

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

 and

Thubert, P., Ed.
,
Power and Lossy Networks) Leaves" RFC 9010 DOI 10.17487/RFC9010
2021,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9010>
.

M. Richardson "Routing for RPL (Routing Protocol for Low-

, April

,

,

Thubert, P., Ed. "Listener Subscription for IPv6 Neighbor Discovery Multicast
and Anycast Addresses" RFC 9685 DOI 10.17487/RFC9685
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9685>

, November 2024,

,

,

.

15.  Informative References

Thubert

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9926

Prefix Registration

February 2026

[BCP38]

Best Current Practice 38,
At the time of writing, this BCP comprises the following:

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/bcp38>
.

[IEEE80211]

[IEEE802151]

[IEEE802154]

 and

D. Senie "Network Ingress Filtering: Defeating Denial of

Ferguson, P.
Service Attacks which employ IP Source Address Spoofing" BCP 38 RFC 2827
DOI 10.17487/RFC2827
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2827>

, May 2000,

,

,

,

,

,

IEEE "IEEE Standard for Information Technology -- Telecommunications and
Information Exchange between Systems - Local and Metropolitan Area
Networks -- Specific Requirements - Part 11: Wireless LAN Medium Access
Control (MAC) and Physical Layer (PHY) Specifications" IEEE Std 802.11-2022
DOI 10.1109/IEEESTD.2021.9363693 <https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/
9363693>

,

,

.

,

,

IEEE "IEEE Standard for Telecommunications and Information Exchange
Between Systems - LAN/MAN - Specific Requirements - Part 15: Wireless
Medium Access Control (MAC) and Physical Layer (PHY) Specifications for
Wireless Personal Area Networks (WPANs)" IEEE Std 802.15.1-2002 DOI
10.1109/IEEESTD.2002.93621 <https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/1016473>

,

,

,

.

,

IEEE "IEEE Standard for Information technology -- Local and metropolitan area
networks -- Specific requirements -- Part 15.4: Wireless Medium Access Control
(MAC) and Physical Layer (PHY) Specifications for Low Rate Wireless Personal
Area Networks (WPANs)" IEEE Std 802.15.4-2006 DOI 10.1109/IEEESTD.
2006.232110 <https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/1700009>

,

,

,

.

[IPv6-over-NBMA]

Thubert, P.

 and

M. Richardson "Architecture and Framework for IPv6 over

,

Non-Broadcast Access" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-6man-ipv6-
over-wireless-09
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-
ietf-6man-ipv6-over-wireless-09>

, 9 November 2025,

,

,

.

[RFC4191]

[RFC4919]

[RFC6282]

[RFC9030]

Draves, R.
 and
RFC 4191 DOI 10.17487/RFC4191
,
info/rfc4191>

,

.

D. Thaler "Default Router Preferences and More-Specific Routes"
,

, November 2005,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

Kushalnagar, N. Montenegro, G.
,
, and
Wireless Personal Area Networks (6LoWPANs): Overview, Assumptions,
Problem Statement, and Goals" RFC 4919 DOI 10.17487/RFC4919
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4919>

C. Schumacher "IPv6 over Low-Power

,
.

,

, August 2007,

 and

Hui, J., Ed.
802.15.4-Based Networks" RFC 6282 DOI 10.17487/RFC6282
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6282>

P. Thubert "Compression Format for IPv6 Datagrams over IEEE
, September 2011,

,
,

,

.

,

Thubert, P., Ed. "An Architecture for IPv6 over the Time-Slotted Channel
Hopping Mode of IEEE 802.15.4 (6TiSCH)" RFC 9030 DOI 10.17487/RFC9030
2021,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9030>

,

,

.

, May

Thubert

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9926

Prefix Registration

February 2026

[RFC9915]

[WI-SUN]

,

Mrugalski, T. Volz, B. Richardson, M. Jiang, S.
,
Configuration Protocol for IPv6 (DHCPv6)" STD 102 RFC 9915 DOI 10.17487/
RFC9915

T. Winters "Dynamic Host
, and
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9915>

, January 2026,

,
,

,

,

.

"Wi-SUN Alliance" <https://wi-sun.org/>

,

.

Acknowledgments

 and

Dave Thaler

Dan Romascanu

Many thanks to
his contributions, and
reviewers of the IETF Last Call and IESG rounds:
Boucadair Paul Wouters Ketan Talaulikar Gunter Van de Velde Mike Bishop
,
Danyliw
.

 for their early reviews,
 for his in-depth AD review. Many thanks as well to the

Dan Romascanu Shuping Peng Mohamed

Adnan Rashid

,
, and

Éric Vyncke

Roman

,

,

,

,

 for all

Author's Address

Pascal Thubert (
editor
)
06330 Roquefort-les-Pins
France
Email:

pascal.thubert@gmail.com

Thubert

Standards Track

Page 24

