Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9761
Standards Track
April 2025
2070-1721
T. Reddy.K
Nokia

B. Anderson
Cisco

D. Wing
Citrix

RFC 9761
Manufacturer Usage Description (MUD) for TLS and
DTLS Profiles for Internet of Things (IoT) Devices

Abstract

This memo extends the Manufacturer Usage Description (MUD) specification to allow
manufacturers to define TLS and DTLS profile parameters. This allows a network security
service to identify unexpected (D)TLS usage, which can indicate the presence of unauthorized
software, malware, or security policy-violating traffic on an endpoint.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9761
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9761

MUD (D)TLS Profile for IoT Devices

April 2025

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  Overview of MUD (D)TLS Profiles for IoT devices

4.  (D)TLS 1.3 Handshake

4.1.  Full (D)TLS 1.3 Handshake Inspection

4.2.  Encrypted DNS

5.  (D)TLS Profile of an IoT device

5.1.  Tree Structure of the (D)TLS Profile Extension to the ACL YANG Module

5.2.  The (D)TLS Profile Extension to the ACL YANG Module

5.3.  IANA (D)TLS Profile YANG Module

5.4.  MUD (D)TLS Profile Extension

6.  Processing of the MUD (D)TLS Profile

7.  MUD File Example

8.  Software-Based ACLs and ACLs Within a (D)TLS 1.3 Proxy

9.  Security Considerations

9.1.  Challenges in Mimicking (D)TLS 1.2 Handshakes for IoT Devices

9.2.  Considerations for the "iana-tls-profile" Module

9.3.  Considerations for the "ietf-acl-tls" Module

9.4.  Considerations for the "ietf-mud-tls" Module

10. Privacy Considerations

11. IANA Considerations

11.1.  (D)TLS Profile YANG Modules

11.2.  Considerations for the iana-tls-profile Module

11.3.  ACL TLS Version Registry

11.4.  ACL DTLS Version Registry

11.5.  ACL (D)TLS Parameters Registry

11.6.  MUD Extensions Registry

3

5

5

6

6

7

7

8

9

13

16

18

19

20

21

22

22

22

23

24

25

25

26

27

27

27

28

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9761

MUD (D)TLS Profile for IoT Devices

April 2025

12. References

12.1.  Normative References

12.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

28

28

30

32

32

[RFC8446]

 and DTLS

Encryption is necessary to enhance the privacy of end users using Internet of Things (IoT)
devices. TLS
versions) that provide encryption for IoT device traffic. Unfortunately, in conjunction with IoT
applications' rise of encryption, malware authors are also using encryption that thwarts
network-based analysis, such as deep packet inspection (DPI). Thus, other mechanisms are
needed to help detect malware running on an IoT device.

 are the dominant protocols (counting all (D)TLS

[RFC9147]

Malware often reuses certain libraries, and there are notable differences in how malware uses
encryption compared to software that is not malware. Several common patterns in the use of
(D)TLS by malware include:

•

Use of older and weaker cryptographic parameters.

•

TLS server name indication (SNI) extension
of subjects with characteristics of a domain generation algorithm (DGA) (e.g., "www.
33mhwt2j.net").

[RFC6066]

 and server certificates are composed

•

Higher use of self-signed certificates compared with typical legitimate software using
certificates from a certificate authority (CA) trusted by the device.

•

Discrepancies in the SNI TLS extension and the DNS names in the SubjectAltName (SAN) X.
509 extension in the server Certificate message.

•

Discrepancies in the key exchange algorithm and the client public key length in comparison
with legitimate flows. As a reminder, the Client Key Exchange message has been removed
from TLS 1.3.

•

Lower diversity in extensions advertised by TLS clients compared to legitimate clients.

•

Using privacy enhancing technologies like Tor, Psiphon, Ultrasurf (see
and evasion techniques such as ClientHello randomization.

[MALWARE-TLS]

),

•

Using an alternative DNS server (via encrypted transport) to avoid detection by malware
DNS filtering services
encrypted DNS server provided by the local network (DHCP, Discovery of Network-
designated Resolvers (DNR)
, or Discovery of Designated Resolvers (DDR)
[RFC9462]

. Specifically, malware may not use the Do53 or

[MALWARE-DOH]

[RFC9463]

).

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9761

MUD (D)TLS Profile for IoT Devices

April 2025

If (D)TLS profile parameters are defined, the following functions that have a positive impact on
the local network security are possible:

•

Permit intended DTLS or TLS use, and block malicious DTLS or TLS use. This is superior to
the Access Control Lists (ACLs) of Layers 3 and 4 in "Manufacturer Usage Description
Specification"
, which are not suitable for broad communication patterns. The goal
of this document is to enhance and complement the existing MUD specifications rather than
undermine them.

[RFC8520]

•

Ensure TLS certificates are valid. Several TLS deployments have been vulnerable to active
Man-In-The-Middle (MITM) attacks because of the lack of certificate validation or
[CRYPTO-VULNERABILITY]
vulnerability in the certificate validation function (see
). By
observing (D)TLS profile parameters, a network element can detect when the TLS SNI
mismatches the SubjectAltName and when the server's certificate is invalid. In (D)TLS 1.2
[RFC5246] [RFC6347]
, the ClientHello, ServerHello, and Certificate messages are all sent in
cleartext. This check is not possible with (D)TLS 1.3, which encrypts the Certificate message
and therefore hides the server identity from any intermediary. In (D)TLS 1.3, the server
certificate validation functions should be executed within an on-path (D)TLS proxy if such a
proxy exists.

•

Support new communication patterns. An IoT device can learn a new capability, and the
new capability can change the way the IoT device communicates with other devices located
in the local network and the Internet. There would be an inaccurate policy if an IoT device
rapidly changes the IP addresses and domain names it communicates with while the MUD
ACLs were slower to update (see
parameters can be used to permit intended use and block malicious behavior from the IoT
device.

). In such a case, observable (D)TLS profile

[CLEAR-AS-MUD]

 to model

[RFC8520]

 to enhance MUD

The YANG module specified in Section 5.2 of this document is an extension of "YANG Data Model
[RFC8519]
for Network Access Control Lists (ACLs)"
observable (D)TLS profile parameters. Using these (D)TLS profile parameters, an active MUD-
enforcing network security service (e.g., firewall) can identify MUD non-compliant (D)TLS
behavior indicating outdated cryptography or malware. This detection can prevent malware
downloads, block access to malicious domains, enforce use of strong ciphers, stop data
exfiltration, etc. In addition, organizations may have policies around acceptable ciphers and
certificates for the websites the IoT devices connect to. Examples include no use of old and less
secure versions of TLS, no use of self-signed certificates, deny-list or accept-list of Certificate
Authorities, valid certificate expiration time, etc. These policies can be enforced by observing the
(D)TLS profile parameters. Network security services can use the IoT device's (D)TLS profile
parameters to identify legitimate flows by observing (D)TLS sessions, and can make inferences
to permit legitimate flows and block malicious or insecure flows. Additionally, it supports
network communications adherence to security policies by ensuring that TLS certificates are
valid and deprecated cipher suites are avoided. The proposed technique is also suitable in
deployments where decryption techniques are not ideal due to privacy concerns, non-
cooperating endpoints, and expense.

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9761

MUD (D)TLS Profile for IoT Devices

April 2025

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

(D)TLS:

Used for statements that apply to both Transport Layer Security

[RFC8446]

 and

Datagram Transport Layer Security
any statement that applies to either protocol alone.

[RFC6347]

. Specific terms "TLS" and "DTLS" are used for

DoH/DoT:

Refers to DNS-over-HTTPS

[RFC8484]

 and/or DNS-over-TLS

[RFC7858]

.

Middlebox:

A middlebox that interacts with TLS traffic can either act as a TLS proxy,
intercepting and decrypting the traffic for inspection, or inspect the traffic between TLS peers
without terminating the TLS session.

Endpoint Security Agent:

An Endpoint Security Agent is a software installed on endpoint
devices that protects them from security threats. It provides features such as malware
protection, firewall, and intrusion prevention to ensure the device's security and integrity.

Network Security Service:

A Network Security Service refers to a set of mechanisms designed

to protect network communications and resources from attacks.

3.  Overview of MUD (D)TLS Profiles for IoT devices

In Enterprise networks, protection and detection are typically done both on end hosts and in the
network. Endpoint security agents have deep visibility on the devices where they are installed,
whereas the network has broader visibility. Installing endpoint security agents may not be a
viable option on IoT devices, and network security service is an efficient means to protect such
IoT devices. If the IoT device supports a MUD (D)TLS profile, the (D)TLS profile parameters of the
IoT device can be used by a middlebox to detect and block malware communication, while at the
same time preserving the privacy of legitimate uses of encryption. In addition, it enforces
organizational security policies, ensuring that devices comply. By monitoring (D)TLS
parameters, network administrators can identify and mitigate the use of outdated TLS versions,
cryptographic algorithms, and non-compliant certificates. The middlebox need not proxy (D)TLS,
but can passively observe the parameters of (D)TLS handshakes from IoT devices and gain
visibility into TLS 1.2 parameters and partial visibility into TLS 1.3 parameters.

Malicious agents can try to use the (D)TLS profile parameters of legitimate agents to evade
detection, but it becomes a challenge to mimic the behavior of various IoT device types and IoT
device models from several manufacturers. In other words, malware developers will have to
develop malicious agents per IoT device type, manufacturer and model, infect the device with
the tailored malware agent, and will have keep up with updates to the device's (D)TLS profile
parameters over time. Furthermore, the malware's command and control server certificates

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9761

MUD (D)TLS Profile for IoT Devices

April 2025

need to be signed by the same certifying authorities trusted by the IoT devices. Typically, IoT
devices have an infrastructure that supports a rapid deployment of updates, and malware
agents will have a near-impossible task of similarly deploying updates and continuing to mimic
the TLS behavior of the IoT device it has infected.

However, if the IoT device has reached end-of-life (EOL) and the IoT manufacturer will not issue
a firmware or software update to the IoT device or will not update the MUD file, the "is-
Section 3.6 of [RFC8520]
supported" attribute defined in
 can be used by the MUD manager to
indicate that the IoT manufacturer no longer supports the device. The EOL of a device, where
the IoT manufacturer no longer supports it, does not necessarily mean the device is defective.
Instead, it signifies that the device is no longer receiving updates, support, or security patches,
which necessitates replacement and upgrading to next-generation devices to ensure continued
functionality, security, and compatibility with modern networks. The network security service
will have to rely on other techniques discussed in Section 9 to identify malicious connections
until the device is replaced.

Compromised IoT devices are typically used for launching DDoS attacks (
For example, DDoS attacks like Slowloris
negotiation can be blocked if the victim's server certificate is not be signed by the same
certifying authorities trusted by the IoT device.

[SLOWLORIS]

 and Transport Layer Security (TLS) re-

Section 3 of [RFC8576]

).

4.  (D)TLS 1.3 Handshake

In (D)TLS 1.3, full (D)TLS handshake inspection is not possible since all (D)TLS handshake
messages excluding the ClientHello message are encrypted. (D)TLS 1.3 has introduced new
extensions in the handshake record layers called Encrypted Extensions. When using these
extensions, handshake messages will be encrypted and network security services (such as a
firewall) are incapable of deciphering the handshake, and thus cannot view the server
certificate. However, the ClientHello and ServerHello still have some fields visible, such as the
list of supported versions, named groups, cipher suites, signature algorithms, extensions in
ClientHello, and the chosen cipher in the ServerHello. For instance, if the malware uses evasion
techniques like ClientHello randomization, the observable list of cipher suites and extensions
offered by the malware agent in the ClientHello message will not match the list of cipher suites
and extensions offered by the legitimate client in the ClientHello message, and the middlebox
can block malicious flows without acting as a (D)TLS 1.3 proxy.

4.1.  Full (D)TLS 1.3 Handshake Inspection

To obtain more visibility into negotiated TLS 1.3 parameters, a middlebox can act as a (D)TLS 1.3
proxy. A middlebox can act as a (D)TLS proxy for the IoT devices owned and managed by the IT
team in the Enterprise network and the (D)TLS proxy must meet the security and privacy
requirements of the organization. In other words, the scope of a middlebox acting as a (D)TLS
proxy is restricted to the Enterprise network owning and managing the IoT devices. The
middlebox would have to follow the behavior detailed in
compliant (D)TLS 1.3 proxy.

Section 9.3 of [RFC8446]

 to act as a

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9761

MUD (D)TLS Profile for IoT Devices

April 2025

To further increase privacy, the Encrypted Client Hello (ECH) extension
passive observation of the TLS Server Name Indication extension and other potentially sensitive
fields, such as the Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation (ALPN)
provide that privacy protection, the ECH extension needs to be used in conjunction with DNS
encryption (e.g., DoH). A middlebox (e.g., firewall) passively inspecting the ECH extension cannot
observe the encrypted SNI nor observe the encrypted DNS traffic. The middlebox acting as a
(D)TLS 1.3 proxy that does not support the ECH extension will act as if it is connecting to the
public name and follows the behavior discussed in
the client to disable ECH.

Section 6.1.6 of [TLS-ESNI]

 to securely signal

. To effectively

[TLS-ESNI]

[RFC7301]

 prevents

4.2.  Encrypted DNS

[RFC8520]

A common usage pattern for certain types of IoT devices (e.g., light bulb) is for it to "call home"
to a service that resides on the public Internet, where that service is referenced through a
domain name (A or AAAA record). As discussed in "Manufacturer Usage Description
, these devices tend to require access to very few sites. Thus, all other
Specification"
access should be considered suspect. This technique complements MUD policy enforcement at
the TLS level by ensuring that DNS queries are monitored and filtered, thereby enhancing
overall security. If an IoT device is pre-configured to use a DNS resolver not signaled by the
network, the MUD policy enforcement point is moved to that resolver, which cannot enforce the
Section 8 of [RFC8520]
MUD policy based on domain names (
for inspection, it becomes quite difficult for the infrastructure to detect any issues. Therefore,
the use of a DNS resolver that is not signaled by the network is generally incompatible with
MUD. A network-designated DoH/DoT server is necessary to allow MUD policy enforcement on
the local network, for example, using the techniques specified in DNR
[RFC9462]
.

). If the DNS query is not accessible

[RFC9463]

 and DDR

5.  (D)TLS Profile of an IoT device

This document specifies a YANG module that represents the (D)TLS profile. This YANG module
provides a means to characterize the (D)TLS traffic profile of a device. Network security services
can use these profiles to permit conformant traffic or to deny traffic from devices that deviates
from it. This module uses the cryptographic types defined in
1.2 and
additional (D)TLS 1.2 recommendations.

 for DTLS 1.3 recommendations related to IoT devices, and

[IoT-PROFILE]

[RFC9325]

[RFC9640]

[RFC7925]

 for (D)TLS

. See

 for

A companion YANG module is defined to include a collection of (D)TLS parameters and (D)TLS
versions maintained by IANA: "iana-tls-profile" (Section 5.3).

The (D)TLS parameters in each (D)TLS profile include the following:

•

Profile name

•

(D)TLS versions supported by the IoT device.

•

List of supported cipher suites (
recommends Authenticated Encryption with Associated Data (AEAD) ciphers for IoT devices.

Section 11 of [RFC8446]

). For (D)TLS 1.2,

[RFC7925]

•

List of supported extension types.

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9761

MUD (D)TLS Profile for IoT Devices

April 2025

•

List of trust anchor certificates used by the IoT device. If the server certificate is signed by
one of the trust anchors, the middlebox continues with the connection as normal.
Otherwise, the middlebox will react as if the server certificate validation has failed and
takes appropriate action (e.g, blocks the (D)TLS session). An IoT device can use a private
trust anchor to validate a server's certificate (e.g., the private trust anchor can be preloaded
at manufacturing time on the IoT device and the IoT device fetches the firmware image
from the firmware server whose certificate is signed by the private CA). This empowers the
middlebox to reject TLS sessions to servers that the IoT device does not trust.

•

List of pre-shared key exchange modes.

•

List of named groups (DHE or ECDHE) supported by the client.

•

List of signature algorithms the client can validate in X.509 server certificates.

List of signature algorithms the client is willing to accept for the CertificateVerify message
•
Section 4.2.3 of [RFC8446]
(
sets of algorithms for certificates, and it can signal the capabilities in the
"signature_algorithms_cert" and "signature_algorithms" extensions.

). For example, a TLS client implementation can support different

•

List of supported application protocols (e.g., h3, h2, http/1.1 etc.).

•

List of certificate compression algorithms (defined in

[RFC8879]

).

•

List of the distinguished names
DER-encoded format

[X690]

 (defined in

Section 4.2.4 of [RFC8446]

).

[X501]

 of acceptable certificate authorities, represented in

 defines a mechanism for TLS peers to send random values on TLS

GREASE [RFC8701]
parameters to ensure future extensibility of TLS extensions. Similar random values might be
extended to other TLS parameters. Thus, the (D)TLS profile parameters defined in the YANG
module by this document
 include the GREASE values for extension types, named
groups, signature algorithms, (D)TLS versions, pre-shared key exchange modes, cipher suites,
and any other TLS parameters defined in future RFCs.

MUST NOT

The (D)TLS profile does not include parameters like compression methods for data compression.
[RFC9325]
 recommends disabling TLS-level compression to prevent compression-related attacks.
In TLS 1.3, only the "null" compression method is allowed (

Section 4.1.2 of [RFC8446]

).

5.1.  Tree Structure of the (D)TLS Profile Extension to the ACL YANG Module

 for signaling the
This document augments the "ietf-acl" ACL YANG module defined in
IoT device (D)TLS profile. This document defines the YANG module "ietf-acl-tls". The meaning of
the symbols in the YANG tree diagram are defined in
structure:

 and it has the following tree

[RFC8340]

[RFC8519]

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9761

MUD (D)TLS Profile for IoT Devices

April 2025

module: ietf-acl-tls
  augment /acl:acls/acl:acl/acl:aces/acl:ace/acl:matches:
    +--rw client-profiles {match-on-tls-dtls}?
       +--rw tls-dtls-profile* [name]
          +--rw name                           string
          +--rw supported-tls-version*        ianatp:tls-version
          +--rw supported-dtls-version*       ianatp:dtls-version
          +--rw cipher-suite*                 ianatp:cipher-algorithm
          +--rw extension-type*
          |       ianatp:extension-type
          +--rw accept-list-ta-cert*
          |       ct:trust-anchor-cert-cms
          +--rw psk-key-exchange-mode*
          |       ianatp:psk-key-exchange-mode
          |       {tls13 or dtls13}?
          +--rw supported-groups*
          |       ianatp:supported-group
          +--rw signature-algorithm-cert*
          |       ianatp:signature-algorithm
          |       {tls13 or dtls13}?
          +--rw signature-algorithm*
          |       ianatp:signature-algorithm
          +--rw application-protocol*
          |       ianatp:application-protocol
          +--rw cert-compression-algorithm*
          |       ianatp:cert-compression-algorithm
          |       {tls13 or dtls13}?
          +--rw certificate-authorities*
                  certificate-authority
                  {tls13 or dtls13}?

5.2.  The (D)TLS Profile Extension to the ACL YANG Module

<CODE BEGINS> file "ietf-acl-tls@2025-04-18.yang"

module ietf-acl-tls {
  yang-version 1.1;
  namespace "urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-acl-tls";
  prefix acl-tls;

  import iana-tls-profile {
    prefix ianatp;
    reference
      "RFC 9761: Manufacturer Usage Description (MUD) for TLS and
                 DTLS Profiles for Internet of Things (IoT) Devices";
  }
  import ietf-crypto-types {
    prefix ct;
    reference
      "RFC 9640: YANG Data Types and Groupings for Cryptography";
  }
  import ietf-access-control-list {
    prefix acl;
    reference
      "RFC 8519: YANG Data Model for Network Access

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9761

MUD (D)TLS Profile for IoT Devices

April 2025

                 Control Lists (ACLs)";
  }

  organization
    "IETF OPSAWG (Operations and Management Area Working Group)";
  contact
    "WG Web: <https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/opsawg/>
     WG List: opsawg@ietf.org

     Author: Tirumaleswar Reddy.K
             kondtir@gmail.com

     Author: Dan Wing
             danwing@gmail.com

     Author: Blake Anderson
             blake.anderson@cisco.com

    ";
  description
    "This YANG module defines a component that augments the
     IETF description of an access list to allow (D)TLS profiles
     as matching criteria.

     Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as
     authors of the code.  All rights reserved.

     Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or
     without modification, is permitted pursuant to, and subject
     to the license terms contained in, the Revised BSD License
     set forth in Section 4.c of the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions
     Relating to IETF Documents
     (http://trustee.ietf.org/license-info).

     This version of this YANG module is part of RFC 9761; see
     the RFC itself for full legal notices.";

  revision 2025-04-18 {
    description
      "Initial revision.";
    reference
      "RFC 9761: Manufacturer Usage Description (MUD) for TLS and
                 DTLS Profiles for Internet of Things (IoT) Devices";
  }

  feature tls12 {
    description
      "TLS Protocol Version 1.2 is supported.";
    reference
      "RFC 5246: The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol
                 Version 1.2";
  }

  feature tls13 {
    description
      "TLS Protocol Version 1.3 is supported.";
    reference
      "RFC 8446: The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9761

MUD (D)TLS Profile for IoT Devices

April 2025

                 Version 1.3";
  }

  feature dtls12 {
    description
      "DTLS Protocol Version 1.2 is supported.";
    reference
      "RFC 6347: Datagram Transport Layer Security
                 Version 1.2";
  }

  feature dtls13 {
    description
      "DTLS Protocol Version 1.3 is supported.";
    reference
      "RFC 9147: Datagram Transport Layer Security 1.3";
  }

  feature match-on-tls-dtls {
    description
      "The networking device can support matching on
       (D)TLS parameters.";
  }

  typedef spki-pin-set {
    type binary;
    description
      "Subject Public Key Info pin set as discussed in
       Section 2.4 of RFC 7469.";
  }

  typedef certificate-authority {
    type string;
    description
      "Distinguished Name of Certificate authority as discussed
       in Section 4.2.4 of RFC 8446.";
  }

  augment "/acl:acls/acl:acl/acl:aces/acl:ace/acl:matches" {
    if-feature "match-on-tls-dtls";
    description
      "(D)TLS specific matches.";
    container client-profiles {
      description
        "A grouping for (D)TLS profiles.";
      list tls-dtls-profile {
        key "name";
        description
          "A list of (D)TLS version profiles supported by
           the client.";
        leaf name {
          type string {
            length "1..64";
          }
          description
            "The name of (D)TLS profile; space and special
             characters are not allowed.";
        }

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9761

MUD (D)TLS Profile for IoT Devices

April 2025

        leaf-list supported-tls-version {
          type ianatp:tls-version;
          description
            "TLS versions supported by the client.";
        }
        leaf-list supported-dtls-version {
          type ianatp:dtls-version;
          description
            "DTLS versions supported by the client.";
        }
        leaf-list cipher-suite {
          type ianatp:cipher-algorithm;
          description
            "A list of cipher suites supported by the client.";
        }
        leaf-list extension-type {
          type ianatp:extension-type;
          description
            "A list of Extension Types supported by the client.";
        }
        leaf-list accept-list-ta-cert {
          type ct:trust-anchor-cert-cms;
          description
            "A list of trust anchor certificates used by the
             client.";
        }
        leaf-list psk-key-exchange-mode {
          if-feature "tls13 or dtls13";
          type ianatp:psk-key-exchange-mode;
          description
            "pre-shared key exchange modes.";
        }
        leaf-list supported-group {
          type ianatp:supported-group;
          description
            "A list of named groups supported by the client.";
        }
        leaf-list signature-algorithm-cert {
          if-feature "tls13 or dtls13";
          type ianatp:signature-algorithm;
          description
            "A list signature algorithms the client can validate
             in X.509 certificates.";
        }
        leaf-list signature-algorithm {
          type ianatp:signature-algorithm;
          description
            "A list signature algorithms the client can validate
             in the CertificateVerify message.";
        }
        leaf-list application-protocol {
          type ianatp:application-protocol;
          description
            "A list application protocols supported by the client.";
        }
        leaf-list cert-compression-algorithm {
          if-feature "tls13 or dtls13";
          type ianatp:cert-compression-algorithm;

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9761

MUD (D)TLS Profile for IoT Devices

April 2025

          description
            "A list certificate compression algorithms
             supported by the client.";
        }
        leaf-list certificate-authorities {
          if-feature "tls13 or dtls13";
          type certificate-authority;
          description
            "A list of the distinguished names of certificate
             authorities acceptable to the client.";
        }
      }
    }
  }
}

<CODE ENDS>

5.3.  IANA (D)TLS Profile YANG Module

The TLS and DTLS IANA registries are available from
parameters>
and DTLS-related IANA registries are discussed in

 and

[RFC8447]
.

<https://www.iana.org/assignments/tls-extensiontype-values>

. Changes to TLS-

<https://www.iana.org/assignments/tls-

The values for all the parameters in the "iana-tls-profile" YANG module are defined in the TLS
and DTLS IANA registries excluding the tls-version, dtls-version, spki-pin-set, and certificate-
authority parameters. The values of spki-pin-set and certificate-authority parameters will be
specific to the IoT device.

The TLS and DTLS IANA registries do not maintain (D)TLS version numbers. In (D)TLS 1.2 and
below, the "legacy_version" field in the ClientHello message is used for version negotiation.
However, in (D)TLS 1.3, the "supported_versions" extension is used by the client to indicate
which versions of (D)TLS it supports. TLS 1.3 ClientHello messages are identified as having a
"legacy_version" of 0x0303 and a "supported_versions" extension present with 0x0304 as the
highest version. DTLS 1.3 ClientHello messages are identified as having a "legacy_version" of
0xfefd and a "supported_versions" extension present with 0x0304 as the highest version.

In order to ease updating the "iana-tls-profile" YANG module with future (D)TLS versions, new
(D)TLS version registries are defined in Section 11.3 and Section 11.4. Whenever a new (D)TLS
protocol version is defined, the registry will be updated using expert review; the "iana-tls-
profile" YANG module will be automatically updated by IANA.

Implementers or users of this specification must refer to the IANA-maintained "iana-tls-profile"
YANG module available at

<https://www.iana.org/assignments/yang-parameters>
.

The initial version of the "iana-tls-profile" YANG module is defined as follows:

<CODE BEGINS> file "iana-tls-profile@2025-04-18.yang"

module iana-tls-profile {

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9761

MUD (D)TLS Profile for IoT Devices

April 2025

  yang-version 1.1;
  namespace "urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:iana-tls-profile";
  prefix ianatp;

  organization
    "IANA";
  contact
    "        Internet Assigned Numbers Authority

     Postal: ICANN
             12025 Waterfront Drive, Suite 300
             Los Angeles, CA  90094-2536
             United States

     Tel:    +1 310 301 5800
     Email:  iana@iana.org>";
  description
    "This module contains the YANG definition for the (D)TLS profile.

     Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as
     authors of the code.  All rights reserved.

     Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or
     without modification, is permitted pursuant to, and subject
     to the license terms contained in, the Revised BSD License
     set forth in Section 4.c of the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions
     Relating to IETF Documents
     (http://trustee.ietf.org/license-info).

     All revisions of IETF and IANA published modules can be found
     at the YANG Parameters registry
     (https://www.iana.org/assignments/yang-parameters).

     The initial version of this YANG module is part of RFC 9761;
     see the RFC itself for full legal notices.

     The latest version of this YANG module is available at
     https://www.iana.org/assignments/yang-parameters.";

  revision 2025-04-18 {
    description
      "Initial revision.";
    reference
      "RFC 9761: Manufacturer Usage Description (MUD) for TLS and
                 DTLS Profiles for Internet of Things (IoT) Devices";
  }

  typedef extension-type {
    type uint16;
    description
      "Extension type in the TLS ExtensionType Values registry as
       defined in Section 7 of RFC 8447.";
  }

  typedef supported-group {
    type uint16;
    description
      "Supported Group in the TLS Supported Groups registry as

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9761

MUD (D)TLS Profile for IoT Devices

April 2025

       defined in Section 9 of RFC 8447.";
  }

  typedef signature-algorithm {
    type uint16;
    description
      "Signature algorithm in the TLS SignatureScheme registry as
       defined in Section 11 of RFC 8446.";
  }

  typedef psk-key-exchange-mode {
    type uint8;
    description
      "Pre-shared key exchange mode in the TLS PskKeyExchangeMode
       registry as defined in Section 11 of RFC 8446.";
  }

  typedef application-protocol {
    type string;
    description
      "Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation (ALPN) Protocol ID
       registry as defined in Section 6 of RFC 7301.";
  }

  typedef cert-compression-algorithm {
    type uint16;
    description
      "Certificate compression algorithm in TLS Certificate
       Compression Algorithm IDs registry as defined in
       Section 7.3 of RFC 8879.";
  }

  typedef cipher-algorithm {
    type uint16;
    description
      "Cipher suite in TLS Cipher Suites registry
       as discussed in Section 11 of RFC 8446.";
  }

  typedef tls-version {
    type enumeration {
      enum tls12 {
        value 1;
        description
          "TLS Protocol Version 1.2.

           TLS 1.2 ClientHello contains
           0x0303 in 'legacy_version'.";
        reference
          "RFC 5246: The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol
                     Version 1.2";
      }
      enum tls13 {
        value 2;
        description
          "TLS Protocol Version 1.3.

           TLS 1.3 ClientHello contains a

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9761

MUD (D)TLS Profile for IoT Devices

April 2025

           supported_versions extension with 0x0304
           contained in its body and the ClientHello contains
           0x0303 in 'legacy_version'.";
        reference
          "RFC 8446: The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol
                     Version 1.3";
      }
    }
    description
      "Indicates the TLS version.";
  }

  typedef dtls-version {
    type enumeration {
      enum dtls12 {
        value 1;
        description
          "DTLS Protocol Version 1.2.

           DTLS 1.2 ClientHello contains
           0xfefd in 'legacy_version'.";
        reference
          "RFC 6347: Datagram Transport Layer Security 1.2";
      }
      enum dtls13 {
        value 2;
        description
          "DTLS Protocol Version 1.3.

           DTLS 1.3 ClientHello contains a
           supported_versions extension with 0x0304
           contained in its body and the ClientHello contains
           0xfefd in 'legacy_version'.";
        reference
          "RFC 9147: Datagram Transport Layer Security 1.3";
      }
    }
    description
      "Indicates the DTLS version.";
  }
}

<CODE ENDS>

5.4.  MUD (D)TLS Profile Extension

This document augments the "ietf-mud" MUD YANG module to indicate whether the device
supports (D)TLS profile. If the "ietf-mud-tls" extension is supported by the device, MUD file is
assumed to implement the "match-on-tls-dtls" ACL model feature defined in this specification.
Furthermore, only "accept" or "drop" actions
to the actions allowed in

Section 2 of [RFC8520]
.

 be included with the (D)TLS profile similar

SHOULD

This document defines the YANG module "ietf-mud-tls", which has the following tree structure:

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9761

MUD (D)TLS Profile for IoT Devices

April 2025

module: ietf-mud-tls
  augment /ietf-mud:mud:
    +--rw is-tls-dtls-profile-supported?   boolean

The model is defined as follows:

<CODE BEGINS> file "ietf-mud-tls@2025-04-18.yang"

module ietf-mud-tls {
  yang-version 1.1;
  namespace "urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-mud-tls";
  prefix ietf-mud-tls;

  import ietf-mud {
    prefix ietf-mud;
    reference
      "RFC 8520: Manufacturer Usage Description Specification";
  }

  organization
    "IETF OPSAWG (Operations and Management Area Working Group)";
  contact
    "WG Web: <https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/opsawg/>
     WG List: opsawg@ietf.org

     Author: Tirumaleswar Reddy.K
             kondtir@gmail.com

     Author: Dan Wing
             danwing@gmail.com

     Author: Blake Anderson
             blake.anderson@cisco.com

    ";
  description
    "Extension to a MUD module to indicate (D)TLS
     profile support.

     Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as
     authors of the code.  All rights reserved.

     Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or
     without modification, is permitted pursuant to, and subject
     to the license terms contained in, the Revised BSD License
     set forth in Section 4.c of the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions
     Relating to IETF Documents
     (http://trustee.ietf.org/license-info).

     This version of this YANG module is part of RFC 9761; see
     the RFC itself for full legal notices.";

  revision 2025-04-18 {
    description
      "Initial revision.";

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9761

MUD (D)TLS Profile for IoT Devices

April 2025

    reference
      "RFC 9761: Manufacturer Usage Description (MUD) for TLS and
                 DTLS Profiles for Internet of Things (IoT)
                 Devices";
  }

  augment "/ietf-mud:mud" {
    description
      "This adds an extension for a manufacturer
       to indicate whether the (D)TLS profile is
       supported by a device.";
    leaf is-tls-dtls-profile-supported {
      type boolean;
      default "false";
      description
        "This value will equal 'true' if a device supports
         (D)TLS profile.";
    }
  }
}

<CODE ENDS>

6.  Processing of the MUD (D)TLS Profile

The following text outlines the rules for a network security service (e.g., firewall) to follow to
process the MUD (D)TLS Profile so as to avoid ossification:

•

If the (D)TLS parameter observed in a (D)TLS session is not specified in the MUD (D)TLS
profile and the parameter is recognized by the firewall, it can identify unexpected (D)TLS
usage, which can indicate the presence of unauthorized software or malware on an
endpoint. The firewall can take several actions, such as blocking the (D)TLS session or raising
an alert to quarantine and remediate the compromised device. For example, if the cipher
suite TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA in the ClientHello message is not specified in the
MUD (D)TLS profile and the cipher suite is recognized by the firewall, it can identify
unexpected TLS usage.

•

If the (D)TLS parameter observed in a (D)TLS session is not specified in the MUD (D)TLS
profile and the (D)TLS parameter is not recognized by the firewall, it can ignore the
unrecognized parameter and the correct behavior is not to block the (D)TLS session. The
behavior is functionally equivalent to the compliant TLS middlebox description in
9.3 of [RFC8446]
For example, if the cipher suite TLS_CHACHA20_POLY1305_SHA256 in the ClientHello
message is not specified in the MUD (D)TLS profile and the cipher suite is not recognized by
the firewall, it can ignore the unrecognized cipher suite. This rule also ensures that the
network security service will ignore the GREASE values advertised by TLS peers and
interoperate with the implementations advertising GREASE values.

 to ignore all unrecognized cipher suites, extensions, and other parameters.

Section

•

Deployments update at different rates, so an updated MUD (D)TLS profile may support
newer parameters. If the firewall does not recognize the newer parameters, an alert should
be triggered to the firewall vendor and the IoT device owner or administrator. A firewall

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9761

MUD (D)TLS Profile for IoT Devices

April 2025

must be readily updatable so that when new parameters in the MUD (D)TLS profile are
discovered that are not recognized by the firewall, it can be updated quickly. Most
importantly, if the firewall is not readily updatable, its protection efficacy to identify
emerging malware will decrease with time. For example, if the cipher suite
TLS_AES_128_CCM_8_SHA256 specified in the MUD (D)TLS profile is not recognized by the
firewall, an alert will be triggered. Similarly, if the (D)TLS version specified in the MUD file is
not recognized by the firewall, an alert will be triggered.

•

If the MUD (D)TLS profile includes any parameters that are susceptible to attacks (e.g.,
weaker cryptographic parameters), an alert
the IoT device owner or administrator.

 be triggered to the firewall vendor and

MUST

7.  MUD File Example

The example below contains (D)TLS profile parameters for an IoT device used to reach servers
listening on port 443 using TCP transport. JSON encoding of YANG-modeled data
used to illustrate the example.

[RFC7951]

 is

{
   "ietf-mud:mud": {
     "mud-version": 1,
      "mud-url": "https://example.com/IoTDevice",
      "last-update": "2024-08-05T03:56:40.105+10:00",
      "cache-validity": 100,
      "extensions": [
           "ietf-mud-tls"
       ],
      "ietf-mud-tls:is-tls-dtls-profile-supported": "true",
      "is-supported": true,
      "systeminfo": "IoT device name",
      "from-device-policy": {
         "access-lists": {
           "access-list": [
             {
               "name": "mud-7500-profile"
             }
           ]
         }
      },
     "ietf-access-control-list:acls": {
       "acl": [
         {
           "name": "mud-7500-profile",
           "type": "ipv6-acl-type",
           "aces": {
             "ace": [
               {
                 "name": "cl0-frdev",
                 "matches": {
                   "ipv6": {
                     "protocol": 6
                   },
                   "tcp": {

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9761

MUD (D)TLS Profile for IoT Devices

April 2025

                     "ietf-mud:direction-initiated": "from-device",
                     "destination-port": {
                       "operator": "eq",
                       "port": 443
                     }
                   },
                   "ietf-acl-tls:client-profile" : {
                     "tls-dtls-profiles" : [
                        {
                           "name" : "profile1",
                           "supported-tls-versions" : ["tls13"],
                           "cipher-suite" : [4865, 4866],
                           "extension-types" : [10,11,13,16,24],
                           "supported-groups" : [29]
                        }
                      ]
                   },
                   "actions": {
                      "forwarding": "accept"
                   }
               }
            }
          ]
         }
        }
       ]
     }
   }
}

The following illustrates the example scenarios for processing the above profile:

•

If the extension type "encrypt_then_mac" (code point 22)
message is recognized by the firewall, it can identify unexpected TLS usage.

[RFC7366]

 in the ClientHello

•

If the extension type "token_binding" (code point 24)
not recognized by the firewall, it can ignore the unrecognized extension. Because the
extension type "token_binding" is specified in the profile, an alert will be triggered to the
firewall vendor and the IoT device owner or administrator to notify the firewall is not up-to-
date.

 in the MUD (D)TLS profile is

[RFC8472]

•

The two-byte values assigned by IANA for the cipher suites TLS_AES_128_GCM_SHA256 and
TLS_AES_256_GCM_SHA384 are represented in decimal format.

8.  Software-Based ACLs and ACLs Within a (D)TLS 1.3 Proxy

While ACL technology is traditionally associated with fixed-length bit matching in hardware
implementations, such as those found in Ternary Content-Addressable Memory (TCAM), the use
of ACLs in software, like with iptables, allows for more flexible matching criteria, including
string matching. In the context of MUD (D)TLS profiles, the ability to match binary data and
strings is a deliberate choice made to leverage the capabilities of software-based ACLs. This

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9761

MUD (D)TLS Profile for IoT Devices

April 2025

enables more dynamic and context-sensitive access control, which is essential for the intended
application of MUD. The DNS extension added to ACL in the MUD specification
requires software-based ACLs.

[RFC8520]

 also

Regarding the use of MUD (D)TLS ACL in a (D)TLS 1.3 proxy, the goal is for the proxy to intercept
the (D)TLS handshake before applying any ACL rules. This implies that MUD (D)TLS ACL
matching would need to occur after decrypting the encrypted TLS handshake messages within
the proxy. The proxy would inspect the handshake fields according to the MUD profile. ACL
matching would be performed in two stages: first, by filtering clear-text TLS handshake message
and second, by filtering after decrypting the TLS handshake messages.

9.  Security Considerations

[RFC8520]
Security considerations in
adhere to the invariants discussed in

 need to be taken into consideration. The middlebox
Section 9.3 of [RFC8446]
 to act as a compliant proxy.

MUST

Although it is challenging for malware to mimic the TLS behavior of various IoT device types
and models from different manufacturers, there is still a potential for malicious agents to use
similar (D)TLS profile parameters as legitimate devices to evade detection. This difficulty arises
because IoT devices often have distinct (D)TLS profiles between models and especially between
manufacturers. While malware may find it hard to perfectly replicate the TLS behavior across
such diverse devices, it is not impossible. Malicious agents might manage to use (D)TLS profile
parameters that resemble those of legitimate devices. The feasibility of this depends on the
nature of the profile parameters; for instance, parameters like certificate authorities are complex
to mimic, while others, such as signature algorithms, may be easier to replicate. The difficulty in
mimicking these profiles correlates with the specificity of the profiles and the variability in
parameters used by different devices.

Network security services should also rely on contextual network data (e.g., domain name, IP
address, etc.) to detect false negatives. For example, network security services filter malicious
domain names and destination IP addresses with a bad reputation score. Furthermore, in order
to detect such malicious flows, anomaly detection (deep learning techniques on network data)
can be used to detect malicious agents using the same (D)TLS profile parameters as the
legitimate agent on the IoT device. In anomaly detection, the main idea is to maintain rigorous
learning of "normal" behavior and where an "anomaly" (or an attack) is identified and
categorized based on the knowledge about the normal behavior and a deviation from this
normal behavior. Network security vendors leverage TLS parameters and contextual network
data to identify malware (for example, see

[EVE]

).

The efficacy of identifying malware in (D)TLS 1.3 flows will be significantly reduced without
leveraging contextual network data or acting as a proxy, as the encryption in (D)TLS 1.3 obscures
many of the handshake details that could otherwise be used for detection.

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9761

MUD (D)TLS Profile for IoT Devices

April 2025

9.1.  Challenges in Mimicking (D)TLS 1.2 Handshakes for IoT Devices

(D)TLS 1.2 generally does not require a proxy, as all fields in the (D)TLS profile are transmitted in
cleartext during the handshake. While it is technically possible for an attacker to observe and
mimic the handshake, an attacker would need to use a domain name and destination IP address
with a good reputation, obtain certificates from the same CAs used by the IoT devices, and evade
traffic analysis techniques (e.g.,
without decryption). This task is particularly challenging because IoT devices often have distinct
(D)TLS profiles that vary between models and manufacturers. Unlike the developers of
legitimate applications, malware authors are under additional constraints, such as avoiding any
noticeable differences on the infected devices and the potential for take-down requests
impacting their server infrastructure (e.g., certificate revocation by a CA upon reporting).

, which detects malicious patterns in encrypted traffic

[EVE]

9.2.  Considerations for the "iana-tls-profile" Module

This section follows the template defined in

Section 3.7.1 of [YANG-GUIDELINES]
.

The "iana-tls-profile" YANG module defines a data model that is designed to be accessed via
[RFC8040]
.
YANG-based management protocols, such as NETCONF
These protocols have to use a secure transport layer (e.g., SSH
, and
QUIC

) and have to use mutual authentication.

 and RESTCONF

[RFC9000]

[RFC6241]

[RFC4252]

[RFC8446]

, TLS

 provides the means to
The Network Configuration Access Control Model (NACM)
restrict access for particular NETCONF or RESTCONF users to a preconfigured subset of all
available NETCONF or RESTCONF protocol operations and content.

[RFC8341]

There are no particularly sensitive writable data nodes.

There are no particularly sensitive readable data nodes.

This YANG module defines YANG enumerations for a public IANA- maintained registry.

YANG enumerations are not security-sensitive, as they are statically defined in the publicly
accessible YANG module. IANA
 deprecate and/or obsolete enumerations over time as
needed to address security issues.

MAY

There are no particularly sensitive RPC or action operations.

The YANG module defines a set of identities, types, and groupings. These nodes are intended to
be reused by other YANG modules. The module by itself does not expose any data nodes that are
writable, data nodes that contain read-only state, or RPCs. As such, there are no additional
security issues related to the YANG module that need to be considered.

9.3.  Considerations for the "ietf-acl-tls" Module

This section follows the template defined in

Section 3.7.1 of [YANG-GUIDELINES]
.

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9761

MUD (D)TLS Profile for IoT Devices

April 2025

The "ietf-acl-tls" YANG module defines a data model that is designed to be accessed via YANG-
. These
based management protocols, such as NETCONF
protocols have to use a secure transport layer (e.g., SSH
, and QUIC
[RFC9000]

) and have to use mutual authentication.

 and RESTCONF

[RFC4252]

[RFC6241]

[RFC8446]

[RFC8040]

, TLS

The Network Configuration Access Control Model (NACM)
 provides the means to
restrict access for particular NETCONF or RESTCONF users to a preconfigured subset of all
available NETCONF or RESTCONF protocol operations and content.

[RFC8341]

There are a number of data nodes defined in this YANG module that are writable/creatable/
deletable (i.e., "config true", which is the default). All writable data nodes are likely to be
reasonably sensitive or vulnerable in some network environments. Write operations (e.g., edit-
config) and delete operations to these data nodes without proper protection or authentication
can have a negative effect on network operations. For instance, the addition or removal of
references to trusted anchors, (D)TLS versions, cipher suites, etc., can dramatically alter the
implemented security policy. For this reason, the NACM extension "default-deny-write" has been
set for all data nodes defined in this module.

Some of the readable data nodes defined in this YANG module may be considered sensitive or
vulnerable in some network environments. It is thus important to control read access (e.g., via
get, get-config, or notification) to these data nodes. The YANG module will provide insights into
(D)TLS profiles of the IoT devices, and the privacy considerations discussed in Section 10 need to
be taken into account.

There are no particularly sensitive RPC or action operations.

This YANG module uses groupings from other YANG modules that define nodes that may be
considered sensitive or vulnerable in network environments. Refer to the Security
Considerations for dependent YANG modules for information as to which nodes may be
considered sensitive or vulnerable in network environments.

9.4.  Considerations for the "ietf-mud-tls" Module

This section follows the template defined in

Section 3.7.1 of [YANG-GUIDELINES]
.

The "ietf-mud-tls" YANG module defines a data model that is designed to be accessed via YANG-
based management protocols, such as NETCONF
protocols have to use a secure transport layer (e.g., SSH
[RFC9000]

) and have to use mutual authentication.

. These
, and QUIC

 and RESTCONF

[RFC4252]

[RFC6241]

[RFC8446]

[RFC8040]

, TLS

The Network Configuration Access Control Model (NACM)
 provides the means to
restrict access for particular NETCONF or RESTCONF users to a preconfigured subset of all
available NETCONF or RESTCONF protocol operations and content.

[RFC8341]

There are a number of data nodes defined in this YANG module that are writable/creatable/
deletable (i.e., "config true", which is the default). All writable data nodes are likely to be
reasonably sensitive or vulnerable in some network environments. Write operations (e.g., edit-
config) and delete operations to these data nodes without proper protection or authentication

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9761

MUD (D)TLS Profile for IoT Devices

April 2025

can have a negative effect on network operations. For instance, update that the device does not
support (D)TLS profile can dramatically alter the implemented security policy. For this reason,
the NACM extension "default-deny-write" has been set for all data nodes defined in this module.

There are no particularly sensitive RPC or action operations.

This YANG module uses groupings from other YANG modules that define nodes that may be
considered sensitive or vulnerable in network environments. Refer to the Security
Considerations for dependent YANG modules for information as to which nodes may be
considered sensitive or vulnerable in network environments.

10.  Privacy Considerations

MUST

 to not reveal the MUD URL to an

Section 16 of [RFC8520]
Privacy considerations discussed in
attacker need to be taken into consideration. The MUD URL can be stored in a Trusted Execution
Environment (TEE) for secure operation, enhanced data security, and prevention of exposure to
unauthorized software. The MUD URL
 be encrypted and shared only with the authorized
components in the network (see Sections 1.5 and 1.8 of
) so that an on-path attacker
cannot read the MUD URL and identify the IoT device. Otherwise, it provides the attacker with
guidance on what vulnerabilities may be present on the IoT device. Note that while protecting
the MUD URL is valuable as described above, a compromised IoT device may be susceptible to
malware performing vulnerability analysis (and version mapping) of the legitimate software
located in memory or on non-volatile storage (e.g., disk, NVRAM). However, the malware on the
IoT device is intended to be blocked from establishing a (D)TLS connection with the C&C server
to reveal this information because the connection would be blocked by the network security
service supporting this specification.

[RFC8520]

NOT
 whenever possible. For example, an enterprise firewall administrator can

Full handshake inspection (Section 4.1) requires a (D)TLS proxy device that needs to decrypt
traffic between the IoT device and its server(s). There is a tradeoff between privacy of the data
carried inside (D)TLS (for example, personally identifiable information and protected health
information especially) and efficacy of endpoint security. The use of (D)TLS proxies is
RECOMMENDED
configure the middlebox to bypass (D)TLS proxy functionality or payload inspection for
connections destined to specific well-known services. Alternatively, an IoT device could be
configured to reject all sessions that involve proxy servers to specific well-known services. In
addition, mechanisms based on object security can be used by IoT devices to enable end-to-end
security and the middlebox will not have any access to the packet data. For example, Object
Security for Constrained RESTful Environments (OSCORE)
Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP) messages by wrapping them in the CBOR Object Signing
and Encryption (COSE) format

 is a proposal that protects

[RFC9052]
.

[RFC8613]

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9761

MUD (D)TLS Profile for IoT Devices

April 2025

11.  IANA Considerations

11.1.  (D)TLS Profile YANG Modules

IANA has registered the following URIs in the "ns" subregistry within the "IETF XML Registry"
[RFC3688]
:

urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:iana-tls-profile

URI:
Registrant Contact:
XML:

IANA.

N/A; the requested URI is an XML namespace.

urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-acl-tls

URI:
Registrant Contact:
XML:

IESG.

N/A; the requested URI is an XML namespace.

urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-mud-tls

URI:
Registrant Contact:
XML:

IESG.

N/A; the requested URI is an XML namespace.

IANA has created an IANA-maintained YANG module called "iana-tls-profile" based on the
contents of Section 5.3, which allows for new (D)TLS parameters and (D)TLS versions to be
added to "client-profile".

IANA has registered the following YANG modules in the "YANG Module Names" registry
[RFC6020]

 of the "YANG Parameters" registry group.

urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:iana-tls-profile

iana-tls-profile

Name:
Namespace:
Maintained by IANA:
Prefix:
Reference:

ianatp

RFC 9761

Y

urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-acl-tls

ietf-acl-tls

Name:
Namespace:
Maintained by IANA:
Prefix:
Reference:

ietf-acl-tls

RFC 9761

N

ietf-mud-tls

Name:
Namespace:
Maintained by IANA:
ietf-mud-tls
Prefix:

N

urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-mud-tls

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9761

MUD (D)TLS Profile for IoT Devices

April 2025

Reference: RFC 9761

11.2.  Considerations for the iana-tls-profile Module

IANA has created the initial version of the IANA-maintained YANG module called "iana-tls-
profile" based on the contents of Section 5.3, which will allow for new (D)TLS parameters and
(D)TLS versions to be added. IANA is requested to add this note:

•

tls-version and dtls-version values must not be directly added to the iana-tls-profile YANG
module. Instead, they must be added to the "ACL TLS Version Codes" and "ACL DTLS Version
Codes" registries (respectively), provided the new (D)TLS version has been standardized by
the IETF. It allows a new (D)TLS version to be added to the "iana-tls-profile" YANG module.

•

(D)TLS parameters must not be directly added to the iana-tls-profile YANG module. They
must instead be added to the "ACL (D)TLS Parameters" registry if the new (D)TLS parameters
can be used by a middlebox to identify a MUD non-compliant (D)TLS behavior. It allows new
(D)TLS parameters to be added to the "iana-tls-profile" YANG module.

When a "tls-version" or "dtls-version" value is added to the "ACL TLS Version Codes" or "ACL
DTLS Version Codes" registry (respectively), a new "enum" statement must be added to the iana-
tls-profile YANG module. The following "enum" statement, and substatements thereof, should be
defined:

"enum":

Replicates the label from the registry.

"value":

Contains the IANA-assigned value corresponding to the "tls-version" or "dtls-
version".

"description":

Replicates the description from the registry.

"reference":

RFC YYYY: <Title of the RFC>, where YYYY is the RFC that added the "tls-version"
or "dtls-version".

When a (D)TLS parameter is added to the "ACL (D)TLS Parameters" registry, a new "type"
statement must be added to the iana-tls-profile YANG module. The following "type" statement,
and substatements thereof, should be defined:

"derived type":

Replicates the parameter name from the registry.

"built-in type":

Contains the built-in YANG type.

"description":

Replicates the description from the registry.

When the iana-tls-profile YANG module is updated, a new "revision" statement must be added in
front of the existing revision statements.

IANA has added this note to "ACL TLS Version Codes", "ACL DTLS Version Codes", and "ACL
(D)TLS Parameters" registries:

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9761

MUD (D)TLS Profile for IoT Devices

April 2025

When this registry is modified, the YANG module "iana-tls-profile" must be updated as
defined in [RFC9761].

11.3.  ACL TLS Version Registry

IANA has created a new registry titled "ACL TLS Version Codes". Codes in this registry are used as
valid values of "tls-version" parameter. Further assignments are to be made through Expert
Review
one that has been standardized by the IETF. It is expected that the registry will be updated
infrequently, primarily when a new TLS version is standardized by the IETF.

. Experts must ensure that the TLS protocol version in a new registration is

[RFC8126]

Value

Label Description

Reference

tls12

TLS Version 1.2

[RFC5246]

tls13

TLS Version 1.3

[RFC8446]

1

2

Table 1

11.4.  ACL DTLS Version Registry

IANA has created a new registry titled "ACL DTLS Version Codes". Codes in this registry are used
as valid values of "dtls-version" parameter. Further assignments are to be made through Expert
Review
one that has been standardized by the IETF. It is expected that the registry will be updated
infrequently, primarily when a new DTLS version is standardized by the IETF.

. Experts must ensure that the DTLS protocol version in a new registration is

[RFC8126]

Value

Label Description

Reference

dtls12

DTLS Version 1.2

[RFC6347]

dtls13

DTLS Version 1.3

[RFC9147]

1

2

Table 2

11.5.  ACL (D)TLS Parameters Registry

IANA has created a new registry titled "ACL (D)TLS Parameters".

https://www.iana.org/assignments/tls-parameters/

The values for all the (D)TLS parameters in the registry are defined in the TLS and DTLS IANA
registries (
assignments/tls-extensiontype-values/
Further assignments are to be made through Expert Review
the (D)TLS parameter in a new registration is one that has been standardized by the IETF. The
registry is expected to be updated periodically, primarily when a new (D)TLS parameter is
standardized by the IETF. The registry has been populated with the following initial parameters:

) excluding the tls-version and dtls-version parameters.
[RFC8126]

https://www.iana.org/

. Experts must ensure that

 and

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9761

MUD (D)TLS Profile for IoT Devices

April 2025

Parameter Name

YANG Type

extension-type

supported-group

signature-algorithm

uint16

uint16

uint16

JSON
Type

Description

Number

Extension type

Number

Supported group

Number

Signature algorithm

psk-key-exchange-mode

uint8

Number

Pre-shared key exchange mode

application-protocol

string

String

Application protocol

cert-compression-
algorithm

uint16

Number

Certificate compression
algorithm

cipher-algorithm

uint16

Number

Cipher suite

tls-version

dtls-version

Table 3

enumeration

String

TLS version

enumeration

String

DTLS version

11.6.  MUD Extensions Registry

IANA has created a new MUD Extension Name "ietf-mud-tls" in the "MUD Extensions" IANA
registry

<https://www.iana.org/assignments/mud>
.

12.  References

12.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC3688]

[RFC4252]

[RFC5246]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Mealling, M. "The IETF XML Registry" BCP 81 RFC 3688 DOI 10.17487/RFC3688
,
January 2004,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3688>

,
.

,

,

,

Ylonen, T.
 and
RFC 4252 DOI 10.17487/RFC4252
,
rfc4252>
.

C. Lonvick, Ed. "The Secure Shell (SSH) Authentication Protocol"

,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, January 2006,

Dierks, T.
1.2" RFC 5246 DOI 10.17487/RFC5246
,
info/rfc5246>

E. Rescorla "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version
 and
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/
,
.

, August 2008,

,

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 9761

MUD (D)TLS Profile for IoT Devices

April 2025

[RFC6241]

[RFC6347]

[RFC8040]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8341]

[RFC8446]

[RFC8519]

[RFC8520]

[RFC8701]

[RFC8879]

[RFC9000]

[RFC9147]

[RFC9640]

,

Enns, R., Ed. Bjorklund, M., Ed. Schoenwaelder, J., Ed.
"Network Configuration Protocol (NETCONF)" RFC 6241 DOI 10.17487/RFC6241
June 2011,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6241>

A. Bierman, Ed.

, and
,

,

,

,

.

,

 and

Rescorla, E.
RFC 6347 DOI 10.17487/RFC6347
rfc6347>

,
.

,

N. Modadugu "Datagram Transport Layer Security Version 1.2"
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, January 2012,

Bierman, A. Bjorklund, M.
,
10.17487/RFC8040

, and

K. Watsen "RESTCONF Protocol" RFC 8040 DOI

,

,

, January 2017,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8040>

,
.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

 and

Bierman, A.
STD 91 RFC 8341 DOI 10.17487/RFC8341
editor.org/info/rfc8341>

M. Bjorklund "Network Configuration Access Control Model"
,
, March 2018,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

,

Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
,
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>

, August 2018,

,

.

,

Jethanandani, M. Agarwal, S. Huang, L.
Network Access Control Lists (ACLs)" RFC 8519 DOI 10.17487/RFC8519
2019,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8519>

D. Blair "YANG Data Model for

, and

,
.

,

,

,

, March

,

Lear, E. Droms, R.
D. Romascanu "Manufacturer Usage Description
Specification" RFC 8520 DOI 10.17487/RFC8520
,
editor.org/info/rfc8520>
.

, March 2019,

, and

,

,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Benjamin, D. "Applying Generate Random Extensions And Sustain Extensibility
(GREASE) to TLS Extensibility" RFC 8701 DOI 10.17487/RFC8701
, January 2020,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8701>
.

,

Ghedini, A.
10.17487/RFC8879

 and

,
, December 2020,

V. Vasiliev "TLS Certificate Compression" RFC 8879 DOI

,

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8879>

.

Iyengar, J., Ed.
Secure Transport" RFC 9000 DOI 10.17487/RFC9000
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9000>

 and
,

,

,

.

M. Thomson, Ed. "QUIC: A UDP-Based Multiplexed and

, May 2021,

<https://

,

Rescorla, E. Tschofenig, H.
Security (DTLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 9147 DOI 10.17487/RFC9147
2022,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9147>

N. Modadugu "The Datagram Transport Layer

, April

, and

,
.

,

,

Watsen, K. "YANG Data Types and Groupings for Cryptography" RFC 9640 DOI
10.17487/RFC9640

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9640>
.

, October 2024,

,

,

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 9761

MUD (D)TLS Profile for IoT Devices

April 2025

[X690]

,

ITU-T "Information technology - ASN.1 encoding Rules: Specification of Basic
Encoding Rules (BER), Canonical Encoding Rules (CER) and Distinguished
Encoding Rules (DER)" ITU-T Recommendation X.690
rec/T-REC-X.690-202102-I/en>

, 2021,

<https://www.itu.int/

,

.

12.2.  Informative References

[CLEAR-AS-MUD]

Hamza, A. Ranathunga, D. Gharakheili, H. H. Roughan, M.

,

,

,

, and

V.

,

Sivaraman "Clear as MUD: Generating, Validating and Applying IoT Behaviorial
Profiles (Technical Report)" arXiv:1804.04358 DOI 10.48550/arXiv.1804.04358
April 2018,

<https://arxiv.org/pdf/1804.04358.pdf>

,

,

.

,

[CRYPTO-VULNERABILITY]

,

Perez, B. "Exploiting the Windows CryptoAPI Vulnerability"
<https://securityboulevard.com/2020/01/exploiting-the-windows-

,

January 2020,
cryptoapi-vulnerability/>

.

[EVE]

,

Cisco "Encrypted Visibility Engine" Cisco Secure Firewall documentation
,
,
<https://secure.cisco.com/secure-firewall/docs/encrypted-visibility-engine>
.

[IoT-PROFILE]

,

, and

Tschofenig, H. Fossati, T.
M. Richardson "TLS/DTLS 1.3 Profiles for the
Internet of Things" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-uta-tls13-iot-
,
profile-13
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-uta-
tls13-iot-profile-13>

, 3 March 2025,

,

,

.

[MALWARE-DOH]

Cimpanu, C. "First-ever malware strain spotted abusing new DoH (DNS

,

over HTTPS) protocol" ZDNET
, July 2019,
ever-malware-strain-spotted-abusing-new-doh-dns-over-https-protocol/>

<https://www.zdnet.com/article/first-

,

.

[MALWARE-TLS]

,

 and

Anderson, B.

D. McGrew "TLS Beyond the Browser: Combining End Host
and Network Data to Understand Application Behavior" IMC '19: Proceedings of
the Internet Measurement Conference, pp. 379-392 DOI
10.1145/3355369.3355601
id=3355601>
.

<https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?

, October 2019,

,

,

[RFC6020]

[RFC6066]

[RFC7301]

[RFC7366]

Bjorklund, M., Ed. "YANG - A Data Modeling Language for the Network
Configuration Protocol (NETCONF)" RFC 6020 DOI 10.17487/RFC6020
,
2010,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6020>

,

.

, October

,

Eastlake 3rd, D. "Transport Layer Security (TLS) Extensions: Extension
Definitions" RFC 6066 DOI 10.17487/RFC6066
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc6066>

, January 2011,

.

<https://www.rfc-

,

Friedl, S. Popov, A. Langley, A.
Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation Extension" RFC 7301 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7301

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7301>
.

E. Stephan "Transport Layer Security (TLS)

, July 2014,

, and

,

,

,

,

Gutmann, P. "Encrypt-then-MAC for Transport Layer Security (TLS) and
Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)" RFC 7366 DOI 10.17487/RFC7366
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7366>
September 2014,

.

,

,

,

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 9761

MUD (D)TLS Profile for IoT Devices

April 2025

[RFC7858]

[RFC7925]

[RFC7951]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8340]

[RFC8447]

[RFC8472]

[RFC8484]

[RFC8576]

[RFC8613]

[RFC9052]

[RFC9325]

[RFC9462]

,

,

Hu, Z. Zhu, L. Heidemann, J. Mankin, A. Wessels, D.
"Specification for DNS over Transport Layer Security (TLS)" RFC 7858 DOI
10.17487/RFC7858

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7858>

, May 2016,

P. Hoffman

, and

,

,

,

.

T. Fossati "Transport Layer Security (TLS) / Datagram
Tschofenig, H., Ed.
Transport Layer Security (DTLS) Profiles for the Internet of Things" RFC 7925
DOI 10.17487/RFC7925

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7925>

, July 2016,

 and

,

,

.

,

Lhotka, L. "JSON Encoding of Data Modeled with YANG" RFC 7951 DOI
10.17487/RFC7951

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7951>

, August 2016,

,

,

,

.

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

, June

Bjorklund, M.
 and
10.17487/RFC8340

L. Berger, Ed. "YANG Tree Diagrams" BCP 215 RFC 8340 DOI
, March 2018,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8340>

,

,

,

.

Salowey, J.
DOI 10.17487/RFC8447

S. Turner "IANA Registry Updates for TLS and DTLS" RFC 8447
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8447>
.

, August 2018,

 and

,

,

D. Balfanz "Transport Layer Security (TLS)
Popov, A., Ed. Nystroem, M.
,
Extension for Token Binding Protocol Negotiation" RFC 8472 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8472

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8472>

, October 2018,

, and

,

,

,

.

Hoffman, P.
10.17487/RFC8484

 and

P. McManus "DNS Queries over HTTPS (DoH)" RFC 8484 DOI

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8484>

, October 2018,

,

,

.

Garcia-Morchon, O. Kumar, S.
, and
State of the Art and Challenges" RFC 8576 DOI 10.17487/RFC8576
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8576>

M. Sethi "Internet of Things (IoT) Security:
, April 2019,

,
.

,

,

,

Selander, G. Mattsson, J. Palombini, F.
L. Seitz "Object Security for
Constrained RESTful Environments (OSCORE)" RFC 8613 DOI 10.17487/
,
RFC8613

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8613>

, July 2019,

, and

,

,

,

.

,

Schaad, J. "CBOR Object Signing and Encryption (COSE): Structures and
<https://
Process" STD 96 RFC 9052 DOI 10.17487/RFC9052
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9052>

, August 2022,

,

,

.

,

, and

Sheffer, Y. Saint-Andre, P.
,
Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)"
BCP 195 RFC 9325 DOI 10.17487/RFC9325
editor.org/info/rfc9325>

T. Fossati "Recommendations for Secure Use of

, November 2022,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

,

,

Pauly, T. Kinnear, E. Wood, C. A. McManus, P.
Designated Resolvers" RFC 9462 DOI 10.17487/RFC9462
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9462>

, and

,
,

,

.

T. Jensen "Discovery of
, November 2023,

,

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 9761

MUD (D)TLS Profile for IoT Devices

April 2025

[RFC9463]

[SLOWLORIS]

[TLS-ESNI]

[X501]

,

Boucadair, M., Ed. Reddy.K, T., Ed. Wing, D. Cook, N.
Router Advertisement Options for the Discovery of Network-designated
Resolvers (DNR)" RFC 9463 DOI 10.17487/RFC9463
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9463>

, November 2023,

, and

,

,

,

.

<https://

T. Jensen "DHCP and

,

Wikipedia "Slowloris (cyber attack)"
w/index.php?title=Slowloris_(cyber_attack)&oldid=1263305193>

, December 2024,

,

.

<https://en.wikipedia.org/

,

Rescorla, E. Oku, K. Sullivan, N.
Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-tls-esni-24
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-tls-esni-24>

, and

C. A. Wood "TLS Encrypted Client Hello"
<https://

, 20 March 2025,

,

,

,

.

,

"Information Technology - Open Systems Interconnection - The Directory:
Models" ITU-T Recommendation X.501
REC-X.501-201910-I/en>

, October 2019,

,

.

<https://www.itu.int/rec/T-

[YANG-GUIDELINES]

Bierman, A. Boucadair, M.
,

Q. Wu "Guidelines for Authors and
, and
Reviewers of Documents Containing YANG Data Models" Work in Progress
,
Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-netmod-rfc8407bis-23
, 15 April 2025,
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-netmod-rfc8407bis-23>

<https://
.

,

,

Acknowledgments

Flemming Andreasen Shashank Jain Michael Richardson Piyush Joshi Eliot Lear

Thanks to
,
Harsha Joshi Qin Wu Mohamed Boucadair Ben Schwartz Eric Rescorla Panwei William Nick
Lamb Tom Petch Paul Wouters Thomas Fossati
,
comments.

,
Nick Harper

 for the discussion and

, and

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Thanks to
Thanks to

Xufeng Liu
Qin Wu

 for YANGDOCTOR review. Thanks to
R. Gieben

 for OPSDIR review. Thanks to

Linda Dunbar
 for DNSDIR review.

 for SECDIR review.

Thanks to
Zaheduzzaman Sarker

,
, and

,
Deb Cooley
 for the IESG review.

Roman Danyliw Orie Steele Éric Vyncke Mahesh Jethanandani Murray Kucherawy
,

,

,

Authors' Addresses

Tirumaleswar Reddy.K
Nokia
India
Email:

kondtir@gmail.com

Dan Wing
Citrix Systems, Inc.
4988 Great America Pkwy
Santa Clara CA 95054
,
United States of America
Email:

danwing@gmail.com

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 9761

MUD (D)TLS Profile for IoT Devices

April 2025

Blake Anderson
Cisco Systems, Inc.
170 West Tasman Dr
San Jose CA 95134
,
United States of America
Email:

blake.anderson@cisco.com

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 33

