Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9209
Standards Track
June 2022
2070-1721
M. Nottingham
Fastly

P. Sikora
Google

RFC 9209
The Proxy-Status HTTP Response Header Field

Abstract

This document deﬁnes the Proxy-Status HTTP response ﬁeld to convey the details of an
intermediary's response handling, including generated errors.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9209
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

Nottingham & Sikora

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9209

Proxy-Status Header

June 2022

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Notational Conventions

2.  The Proxy-Status HTTP Field

2.1.  Proxy-Status Parameters

2.1.1.  error

2.1.2.  next-hop

2.1.3.  next-protocol

2.1.4.  received-status

2.1.5.  details

2.2.  Deﬁning New Proxy-Status Parameters

2.3.  Proxy Error Types

2.3.1.  DNS Timeout

2.3.2.  DNS Error

2.3.3.  Destination Not Found

2.3.4.  Destination Unavailable

2.3.5.  Destination IP Prohibited

2.3.6.  Destination IP Unroutable

2.3.7.  Connection Refused

2.3.8.  Connection Terminated

2.3.9.  Connection Timeout

2.3.10. Connection Read Timeout

2.3.11. Connection Write Timeout

2.3.12. Connection Limit Reached

2.3.13. TLS Protocol Error

2.3.14. TLS Certiﬁcate Error

2.3.15. TLS Alert Received

2.3.16. HTTP Request Error

2.3.17. HTTP Request Denied

Nottingham & Sikora

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9209

Proxy-Status Header

June 2022

2.3.18. HTTP Incomplete Response

2.3.19. HTTP Response Header Section Too Large

2.3.20. HTTP Response Header Field Line Too Large

2.3.21. HTTP Response Body Too Large

2.3.22. HTTP Response Trailer Section Too Large

2.3.23. HTTP Response Trailer Field Line Too Large

2.3.24. HTTP Response Transfer-Coding Error

2.3.25. HTTP Response Content-Coding Error

2.3.26. HTTP Response Timeout

2.3.27. HTTP Upgrade Failed

2.3.28. HTTP Protocol Error

2.3.29. Proxy Internal Response

2.3.30. Proxy Internal Error

2.3.31. Proxy Conﬁguration Error

2.3.32. Proxy Loop Detected

2.4.  Deﬁning New Proxy Error Types

3.  IANA Considerations

4.  Security Considerations

5.  References

5.1.  Normative References

5.2.  Informative References

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

Section 3.7 of [HTTP]

HTTP intermediaries (see
(also known as "reverse proxies") -- have become an increasingly signiﬁcant part of HTTP
deployments. In particular, reverse proxies and content delivery networks (CDNs) form part of
the critical infrastructure of many websites.

) -- including both forward proxies and gateways

Nottingham & Sikora

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9209

Proxy-Status Header

June 2022

Typically, HTTP intermediaries forward requests towards the origin server (inbound) and then
forward their responses back to clients (outbound). However, if an error occurs before a response
is obtained from an inbound server, the response is often generated by the intermediary itself.

HTTP accommodates these types of errors with a few status codes -- for example, 502 (Bad
Gateway) and 504 (Gateway Timeout). However, experience has shown that more information is
necessary to aid debugging and communicate what's happened to the client. Additionally,
intermediaries sometimes want to convey additional information about their handling of a
response, even if they did not generate it.

To enable these uses, Section 2 deﬁnes a new HTTP response ﬁeld to allow intermediaries to
convey details of their handling of a response. Section 2.1 enumerates the information that can
be added to the ﬁeld by intermediaries, which can be extended per Section 2.2. Section 2.3 deﬁnes
a set of error types for use when a proxy encounters an issue when obtaining a response for the
request; these can likewise be extended per Section 2.4.

1.1.  Notational Conventions

The key words "
", "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
", "
"
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

This document uses the following terminology from
syntax and parsing: List, String, Token, Integer, and Byte Sequence.

Section 3 of [STRUCTURED-FIELDS]

 to specify

Note that in this speciﬁcation, "proxy" is used to indicate both forward and reverse proxies,
otherwise known as gateways. "Next hop" indicates the connection in the direction leading to the
origin server for the request.

2.  The Proxy-Status HTTP Field

The Proxy-Status HTTP response ﬁeld allows an intermediary to convey additional information
about its handling of a response and its associated request.

Section 3.1 of [STRUCTURED-FIELDS]

Its value is a List (see
an intermediary that has handled the response. The ﬁrst member represents the intermediary
closest to the origin server, and the last member represents the intermediary closest to the user
agent.

). Each member of the List represents

For example:

Proxy-Status: revproxy1.example.net, ExampleCDN

indicates that this response was handled ﬁrst by revproxy1.example.net (a reverse proxy
adjacent to the origin server) and then ExampleCDN.

Nottingham & Sikora

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9209

Proxy-Status Header

June 2022

Intermediaries determine when it is appropriate to add the Proxy-Status ﬁeld to a response. Some
might decide to append it to all responses, whereas others might only do so when speciﬁcally
conﬁgured to or when the request contains a header ﬁeld that activates a debugging mode.

Each member of the List identiﬁes the intermediary that inserted the value and
of either String or Token. Depending on the deployment, this might be a service name (but not a
software or hardware product name; e.g., "ExampleCDN" is appropriate, but "ExampleProxy" is
not because it doesn't identify the deployment), a hostname ("proxy-3.example.com"), an IP
address, or a generated string.

MUST

 have a type

Section 3.1.2 of [STRUCTURED-FIELDS]

Parameters of each member (per
information about that intermediary's handling of the response and its associated request; see
Section 2.1. While all of these parameters are
provide as much information as possible (but see Section 4 for security considerations in doing
so).

, intermediaries are encouraged to

) convey additional

OPTIONAL

When adding a value to the Proxy-Status ﬁeld, intermediaries
members of the ﬁeld to allow debugging of the entire chain of intermediaries handling the request
unless explicitly conﬁgured to remove them (e.g., to prevent internal network details from
leaking; see Section 4).

 preserve the existing

SHOULD

Origin servers

MUST NOT

 generate the Proxy-Status ﬁeld.

MAY

 be sent as an HTTP trailer ﬁeld. For example, if an intermediary is streaming a
Proxy-Status
response and the inbound connection suddenly terminates, Proxy-Status can only be appended
to the trailer section of the outbound message since the header section has already been sent.
However, because it might be silently discarded along the path to the user agent (as is the case for
), Proxy-Status
all trailer ﬁelds; see
unless it is not possible to send it in the header section.

 be sent as a trailer ﬁeld

Section 6.5 of [HTTP]

SHOULD NOT

To allow recipients to reconstruct the relative ordering of Proxy-Status members conveyed in
trailer ﬁelds with those conveyed in header ﬁelds, an intermediary
as a trailer ﬁeld unless it has also generated a Proxy-Status header ﬁeld with the same member
(although potentially diﬀerent parameters) in that message.

 send Proxy-Status

MUST NOT

For example, a proxy identiﬁed as 'ThisProxy' that receives a response bearing a header ﬁeld:

Proxy-Status: SomeOtherProxy

would add its own entry to the header ﬁeld:

Proxy-Status: SomeOtherProxy, ThisProxy

thus allowing it to append a trailer ﬁeld:

Nottingham & Sikora

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9209

Proxy-Status Header

June 2022

Proxy-Status: ThisProxy; error=read_timeout

which would thereby allow a downstream recipient to understand that processing by
'SomeOtherProxy' occurred before 'ThisProxy'.

A client

MAY

 promote the Proxy-Status trailer ﬁeld into a header ﬁeld by following these steps:

1.

For each member trailer_member of the Proxy-Status trailer ﬁeld value:
1.

Let header_member be the ﬁrst (leftmost) value of the Proxy-Status header ﬁeld value,
comparing the String or Token character by character without consideration of
parameters.

2.

If no matching header_member is found, continue processing the next trailer_member.

3.

Replace header_member with trailer_member in its entirety, including any parameters.

2.

Remove the Proxy-Status trailer ﬁeld if empty.

2.1.  Proxy-Status Parameters

This section lists parameters that can be used on the members of the Proxy-Status ﬁeld.
Unrecognised parameters

 be ignored.

MUST

2.1.1.  error

The error parameter's value is a Token that is a proxy error type. When present, it indicates that
the intermediary encountered an issue when obtaining this response.

The presence of some proxy error types indicates that the response was generated by the
intermediary itself, rather than being forwarded from the origin server. This is the case when, for
example, the origin server can't be contacted, so the proxy has to create its own response.

Other proxy error types can be added to (potentially partial) responses that were generated by
the origin server or some other inbound server. For example, if the forward connection abruptly
closes, an intermediary might add Proxy-Status with an appropriate error as a trailer ﬁeld.

Proxy error types that are registered with a 'Response only generated by intermediaries' value of
'true' indicate that they can only occur in responses generated by the intermediary. If the value is
'false', the response might be generated by the intermediary or an inbound server.

Section 2.3 lists the proxy error types deﬁned in this document; new ones can be deﬁned using the
procedure outlined in Section 2.4.

For example:

HTTP/1.1 504 Gateway Timeout
Proxy-Status: ExampleCDN; error=connection_timeout

Nottingham & Sikora

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9209

Proxy-Status Header

June 2022

indicates that this 504 response was generated by ExampleCDN due to a connection timeout
when going forward.

Or:

HTTP/1.1 429 Too Many Requests
Proxy-Status: r34.example.net; error=http_request_error, ExampleCDN

indicates that this 429 (Too Many Requests) response was generated by r34.example.net, not the
CDN or the origin.

When sending the error parameter, the most speciﬁc proxy error type
that it accurately represents the error condition. If an appropriate proxy error type is not
deﬁned, there are a number of generic error types (e.g., proxy_internal_error,
http_protocol_error) that can be used. If they are not suitable, consider registering a new proxy
error type (see Section 2.4).

 be sent, provided

SHOULD

Each proxy error type has a recommended HTTP status code. When generating an HTTP response
containing the error, its HTTP status code
 be set to the recommended HTTP status code.
However, there may be circumstances (e.g., for backwards compatibility with previous
behaviours, a status code has already been sent) when another status code might be used.

SHOULD

Proxy error types can also deﬁne any number of extra parameters for use with that type. Their
use, like all parameters, is optional. As a result, if an extra parameter is used with a proxy error
type for which it is not deﬁned, it will be ignored.

2.1.2.  next-hop

The next-hop parameter's value is a String or Token that identiﬁes the intermediary or origin
server selected (and used, if contacted) to obtain this response. It might be a hostname, IP
address, or alias.

For example:

Proxy-Status: cdn.example.org; next-hop=backend.example.org:8001

indicates that cdn.example.org used backend.example.org:8001 as the next hop for this request.

2.1.3.  next-protocol

The next-protocol parameter's value indicates the Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation
(ALPN) protocol identiﬁer
next hop when obtaining this response.

 of the protocol used by the intermediary to connect to the

[RFC7301]

MUST

 be either a Token or Byte Sequence representing a TLS ALPN Protocol ID (see

The value
<https://www.iana.org/assignments/tls-extensiontype-values#alpn-protocol-ids>
identiﬁer is able to be expressed as a Token using ASCII encoding, that form

 be used.

MUST

). If the protocol

Nottingham & Sikora

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9209

Proxy-Status Header

June 2022

For example:

Proxy-Status: "proxy.example.org"; next-protocol=h2

Note that the ALPN identiﬁer is being used here to identify the protocol in use; it may or may not
have been actually used in the protocol negotiation.

2.1.4.  received-status

The received-status parameter's value indicates the HTTP status code that the intermediary
received from the next-hop server when obtaining this response.

The value

MUST

 be an Integer.

For example:

Proxy-Status: ExampleCDN; received-status=200

2.1.5.  details

The details parameter's value is a String containing additional information not captured
anywhere else. This can include implementation-speciﬁc or deployment-speciﬁc information.

For example:

Proxy-Status: proxy.example.net; error="http_protocol_error";
              details="Malformed response header: space before colon"

2.2.  Deﬁning New Proxy-Status Parameters

New Proxy-Status parameters can be deﬁned by registering them in the "HTTP Proxy-Status
Parameters" registry.

Registration requests are reviewed and approved by Expert Review, per
speciﬁcation document is appreciated but not required.

[RFC8126], Section 4.5

. A

The expert(s) should consider the following factors when evaluating requests:

•

Community feedback

•

If the value is suﬃciently well deﬁned

•

Generic parameters are preferred over vendor-speciﬁc, application-speciﬁc, or deployment-
speciﬁc values. If a generic value cannot be agreed upon in the community, the parameter's
name should be correspondingly speciﬁc (e.g., with a preﬁx that identiﬁes the vendor,
application, or deployment).

•

Parameter names should not conﬂict with registered extra parameters in the "HTTP Proxy
Error Types" registry.

Nottingham & Sikora

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9209

Proxy-Status Header

June 2022

Registration requests should use the following template:

Name:

[a name for the Proxy-Status parameter that matches key]

Description:

[a description of the parameter semantics and value]

Reference:

[to a speciﬁcation deﬁning this parameter; optional]

See the registry at
send registration requests.

<https://www.iana.org/assignments/http-proxy-status>

 for details on where to

2.3.  Proxy Error Types

This section lists the proxy error types deﬁned by this document. See Section 2.4 for information
about deﬁning new proxy error types.

Note that implementations might not produce all proxy error types. The set of types below is
designed to map to existing states in implementations and therefore may not be applicable to
some.

2.3.1.  DNS Timeout

Name:

dns_timeout

Description:

The intermediary encountered a timeout when trying to ﬁnd an IP address for the

next-hop hostname.

Extra Parameters:

None

Recommended HTTP Status Code:

504

Response Only Generated by Intermediaries:

true

Reference:

RFC 9209

2.3.2.  DNS Error

Name:

dns_error

Description:

The intermediary encountered a DNS error when trying to ﬁnd an IP address for

the next-hop hostname.

Extra Parameters:

rcode:

A String conveying the DNS RCODE that indicates the error type. See

[RFC8499],

.
Section 3

info-code:

An Integer conveying the Extended DNS Error Code INFO-CODE. See

[RFC8914]

.

Recommended HTTP Status Code:

502

Nottingham & Sikora

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9209

Proxy-Status Header

June 2022

Response Only Generated by Intermediaries:

true

Reference:

RFC 9209

2.3.3.  Destination Not Found

Name:

destination_not_found

Description:

The intermediary cannot determine the appropriate next hop to use for this

request; for example, it may not be conﬁgured. Note that this error is speciﬁc to gateways,
which typically require speciﬁc conﬁguration to identify the "backend" server; forward
proxies use in-band information to identify the origin server.

Extra Parameters:

None

Recommended HTTP Status Code:

500

Response Only Generated by Intermediaries:

true

Reference:

RFC 9209

2.3.4.  Destination Unavailable

Name:

destination_unavailable

Description:

The intermediary considers the next hop to be unavailable; e.g., recent attempts to

communicate with it may have failed, or a health check may indicate that it is down.

Extra Parameters:

None

Recommended HTTP Status Code:

503

Response Only Generated by Intermediaries:

true

Reference:

RFC 9209

2.3.5.  Destination IP Prohibited

Name:

destination_ip_prohibited

Description:

The intermediary is conﬁgured to prohibit connections to the next-hop IP address.

Extra Parameters:

None

Recommended HTTP Status Code:

502

Response Only Generated by Intermediaries:

true

Reference:

RFC 9209

2.3.6.  Destination IP Unroutable

Nottingham & Sikora

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9209

Proxy-Status Header

June 2022

Name:

destination_ip_unroutable

Description:

The intermediary cannot ﬁnd a route to the next-hop IP address.

Extra Parameters:

None

Recommended HTTP Status Code:

502

Response Only Generated by Intermediaries:

true

Reference:

RFC 9209

2.3.7.  Connection Refused

Name:

connection_refused

Description:

The intermediary's connection to the next hop was refused.

Extra Parameters:

None

Recommended HTTP Status Code:

502

Response Only Generated by Intermediaries:

true

Reference:

RFC 9209

2.3.8.  Connection Terminated

Name:

connection_terminated

Description:

The intermediary's connection to the next hop was closed before a complete

response was received.

Extra Parameters:

None

Recommended HTTP Status Code:

502

Response Only Generated by Intermediaries:

false

Reference:

RFC 9209

2.3.9.  Connection Timeout

Name:

connection_timeout

Description:

The intermediary's attempt to open a connection to the next hop timed out.

Extra Parameters:

None

Recommended HTTP Status Code:

504

Response Only Generated by Intermediaries:

true

Reference:

RFC 9209

Nottingham & Sikora

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9209

Proxy-Status Header

June 2022

2.3.10.  Connection Read Timeout

Name:

connection_read_timeout

Description:

The intermediary was expecting data on a connection (e.g., part of a response) but

did not receive any new data in a conﬁgured time limit.

Extra Parameters:

None

Recommended HTTP Status Code:

504

Response Only Generated by Intermediaries:

false

Reference:

RFC 9209

2.3.11.  Connection Write Timeout

Name:

connection_write_timeout

Description:

The intermediary was attempting to write data to a connection but was not able to

(e.g., because its buﬀers were full).

Extra Parameters:

None

Recommended HTTP Status Code:

504

Response Only Generated by Intermediaries:

false

Reference:

RFC 9209

2.3.12.  Connection Limit Reached

Name:

connection_limit_reached

Description:

The intermediary is conﬁgured to limit the number of connections it has to the

next hop, and that limit has been exceeded.

Extra Parameters:

None

Recommended HTTP Status Code:

503

Response Only Generated by Intermediaries:

true

Reference:

RFC 9209

2.3.13.  TLS Protocol Error

Name:

tls_protocol_error

Description:

The intermediary encountered a TLS error when communicating with the next

hop, either during the handshake or afterwards.

Nottingham & Sikora

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9209

Proxy-Status Header

June 2022

Extra Parameters:

None

Recommended HTTP Status Code:

502

Response Only Generated by Intermediaries:

false

Reference:

RFC 9209

Notes:

Not appropriate when a TLS alert is received; see tls_alert_received.

2.3.14.  TLS Certiﬁcate Error

Name:

tls_certiﬁcate_error

Description:

The intermediary encountered an error when verifying the certiﬁcate presented by

the next hop.

Extra Parameters:

None

Recommended HTTP Status Code:

502

Response Only Generated by Intermediaries:

true

Reference:

RFC 9209

2.3.15.  TLS Alert Received

Name:

tls_alert_received

Description:

The intermediary received a TLS alert from the next hop.

Extra Parameters:

alert-id:

An Integer containing the applicable value from the "TLS Alerts" registry. See

[TLS]

.

alert-message:

A Token or String containing the applicable description string from the "TLS

Alerts" registry. See

[TLS]

.

Recommended HTTP Status Code:

502

Response Only Generated by Intermediaries:

false

Reference:

RFC 9209

2.3.16.  HTTP Request Error

Name:

http_request_error

Description:

The intermediary is generating a client (4xx) response on the origin's behalf.

Applicable status codes include (but are not limited to) 400, 403, 405, 406, 408, 411, 413, 414, 415,
416, 417, and 429.

Extra Parameters:

Nottingham & Sikora

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9209

Proxy-Status Header

June 2022

status-code:

An Integer containing the generated status code.

status-phrase:

A String containing the generated status phrase.

Recommended HTTP Status Code:

The applicable 4xx status code

Response Only Generated by Intermediaries:

true

Reference:

RFC 9209

Notes:

This type helps distinguish between responses generated by intermediaries from those

generated by the origin.

2.3.17.  HTTP Request Denied

Name:

http_request_denied

Description:

The intermediary rejected the HTTP request based on its conﬁguration and/or

policy settings. The request wasn't forwarded to the next hop.

Extra Parameters:

None

Recommended HTTP Status Code:

403

Response Only Generated by Intermediaries:

true

Reference:

RFC 9209

2.3.18.  HTTP Incomplete Response

Name:

http_response_incomplete

Description:
hop.

The intermediary received an incomplete response to the request from the next

Extra Parameters:

None

Recommended HTTP Status Code:

502

Response Only Generated by Intermediaries:

false

Reference:

RFC 9209

2.3.19.  HTTP Response Header Section Too Large

Name:

http_response_header_section_size

Description:

The intermediary received a response to the request whose header section was

considered too large.

Extra Parameters:

header-section-size:

Nottingham & Sikora

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9209

Proxy-Status Header

June 2022

An Integer indicating how large the received headers were. Note that they might not be
complete; i.e., the intermediary may have discarded or refused additional data.

Recommended HTTP Status Code:

502

Response Only Generated by Intermediaries:

false

Reference:

RFC 9209

2.3.20.  HTTP Response Header Field Line Too Large

Name:

http_response_header_size

Description:

The intermediary received a response to the request containing an individual

header ﬁeld line that was considered too large.

Extra Parameters:

header-name:

A String indicating the name of the header ﬁeld that triggered the error.

header-size:

An Integer indicating the size of the header ﬁeld that triggered the error.

Recommended HTTP Status Code:

502

Response Only Generated by Intermediaries:

false

Reference:

RFC 9209

2.3.21.  HTTP Response Body Too Large

Name:

http_response_body_size

Description:
too large.

The intermediary received a response to the request whose body was considered

Extra Parameters:

body-size:

An Integer indicating how large the received body was. Note that it may not have

been complete; i.e., the intermediary may have discarded or refused additional data.

Recommended HTTP Status Code:

502

Response Only Generated by Intermediaries:

false

Reference:

RFC 9209

2.3.22.  HTTP Response Trailer Section Too Large

Name:

http_response_trailer_section_size

Description:

The intermediary received a response to the request whose trailer section was

considered too large.

Nottingham & Sikora

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9209

Proxy-Status Header

June 2022

Extra Parameters:

trailer-section-size:

An Integer indicating how large the received trailers were. Note that they

might not be complete; i.e., the intermediary may have discarded or refused additional
data.

Recommended HTTP Status Code:

502

Response Only Generated by Intermediaries:

false

Reference:

RFC 9209

2.3.23.  HTTP Response Trailer Field Line Too Large

Name:

http_response_trailer_size

Description:

The intermediary received a response to the request containing an individual

trailer ﬁeld line that was considered too large.

Extra Parameters:

trailer-name:

A String indicating the name of the trailer ﬁeld that triggered the error.

trailer-size:

An Integer indicating the size of the trailer ﬁeld that triggered the error.

Recommended HTTP Status Code:

502

Response Only Generated by Intermediaries:

false

Reference:

RFC 9209

2.3.24.  HTTP Response Transfer-Coding Error

Name:

http_response_transfer_coding

Description:
response.

The intermediary encountered an error decoding the transfer coding of the

Extra Parameters:

coding:

A Token containing the speciﬁc coding (from the "HTTP Transfer Coding Registry")

that caused the error.

Recommended HTTP Status Code:

502

Response Only Generated by Intermediaries:

false

Reference:

RFC 9209

2.3.25.  HTTP Response Content-Coding Error

Name:

http_response_content_coding

Nottingham & Sikora

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9209

Proxy-Status Header

June 2022

Description:
response.

The intermediary encountered an error decoding the content coding of the

Extra Parameters:

coding:

A Token containing the speciﬁc coding (from the "HTTP Content Coding Registry")

that caused the error.

Recommended HTTP Status Code:

502

Response Only Generated by Intermediaries:

false

Reference:

RFC 9209

2.3.26.  HTTP Response Timeout

Name:

http_response_timeout

Description:
response.

The intermediary reached a conﬁgured time limit waiting for the complete

Extra Parameters:

None

Recommended HTTP Status Code:

504

Response Only Generated by Intermediaries:

false

Reference:

RFC 9209

2.3.27.  HTTP Upgrade Failed

Name:

http_upgrade_failed

Description:

The process of negotiating an upgrade of the HTTP version between the

intermediary and the next hop failed.

Extra Parameters:

None

Recommended HTTP Status Code:

502

Response Only Generated by Intermediaries:

true

Reference:

RFC 9209

2.3.28.  HTTP Protocol Error

Name:

http_protocol_error

Description:

The intermediary encountered an HTTP protocol error when communicating with

the next hop. This error should only be used when a more speciﬁc one is not deﬁned.

Extra Parameters:

None

Nottingham & Sikora

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9209

Proxy-Status Header

June 2022

Recommended HTTP Status Code:

502

Response Only Generated by Intermediaries:

false

Reference:

RFC 9209

2.3.29.  Proxy Internal Response

Name:

proxy_internal_response

Description:

The intermediary generated the response itself without attempting to connect to

the next hop.

Extra Parameters:

None

Recommended HTTP Status Code:

The most appropriate status code for the response

Response Only Generated by Intermediaries:

true

Reference:

RFC 9209

2.3.30.  Proxy Internal Error

Name:

proxy_internal_error

Description:

The intermediary encountered an internal error unrelated to the origin.

Extra Parameters:

None

Recommended HTTP Status Code:

500

Response Only Generated by Intermediaries:

true

Reference:

RFC 9209

2.3.31.  Proxy Conﬁguration Error

Name:

proxy_conﬁguration_error

Description:

The intermediary encountered an error regarding its conﬁguration.

Extra Parameters:

None

Recommended HTTP Status Code:

500

Response Only Generated by Intermediaries:

true

Reference:

RFC 9209

2.3.32.  Proxy Loop Detected

Name:

proxy_loop_detected

Nottingham & Sikora

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9209

Proxy-Status Header

June 2022

Description:

The intermediary tried to forward the request to itself, or a loop has been detected

using diﬀerent means (e.g.,

[RFC8586]

).

Extra Parameters:

None

Recommended HTTP Status Code:

502

Response Only Generated by Intermediaries:

true

Reference:

RFC 9209

2.4.  Deﬁning New Proxy Error Types

New proxy error types can be deﬁned by registering them in the "HTTP Proxy Error Types"
registry.

Registration requests are reviewed and approved by Expert Review, per
speciﬁcation document is appreciated but not required.

[RFC8126], Section 4.5

. A

The expert(s) should consider the following factors when evaluating requests:

•

Community feedback

•

If the value is suﬃciently well-deﬁned

•

Generic types are preferred over vendor-speciﬁc, application-speciﬁc, or deployment-speciﬁc
values. If a generic value cannot be agreed upon in the community, the type's name should be
correspondingly speciﬁc (e.g., with a preﬁx that identiﬁes the vendor, application, or
deployment).

•

Extra parameters should not conﬂict with registered Proxy-Status parameters.

Registration requests should use the following template:

Name:

[a name for the proxy error type that is of type Token]

Description:

[a description of the conditions that generate the proxy error type]

Extra Parameters:

[zero or more optional parameters, along with their allowable Structured

Type(s)]

Recommended HTTP Status Code:

[the appropriate HTTP status code for this entry]

Response Only Generated by Intermediaries:

['true' or 'false']

Reference:

[to a speciﬁcation deﬁning this error type; optional]

Notes:

[optional]

Nottingham & Sikora

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9209

Proxy-Status Header

June 2022

If the proxy error type might occur in responses that are not generated by the intermediary -- for
example, when an error is detected as the response is streamed from a forward connection,
causing a Proxy-Status trailer ﬁeld to be appended -- the 'Response only generated by
intermediaries' should be 'false'. If the proxy error type only occurs in responses that are
generated by the intermediary, it should be 'true'.

See the registry at
send registration requests.

<https://www.iana.org/assignments/http-proxy-status>

 for details on where to

3.  IANA Considerations

IANA has created the "HTTP Proxy-Status Parameters" registry and the "HTTP Proxy Error Types"
registry at
 and has populated them with
the types deﬁned in Sections 2.1 and 2.3 respectively; see Sections 2.2 and 2.4 for their associated
procedures.

<https://www.iana.org/assignments/http-proxy-status>

Additionally, the following entry has been added to the "Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) Field
Name Registry":

Proxy-Status

Field name:
Status:
Speciﬁcation document(s):
Comments:

permanent

RFC 9209

4.  Security Considerations

One of the primary security concerns when using Proxy-Status is leaking information that might
aid an attacker. For example, information about the intermediary's conﬁguration and backend
topology can be exposed, allowing attackers to directly target backend services that are not
prepared for high traﬃc volume or malformed inputs. Some information might only be suitable
to reveal to authorized parties.

As a result, care needs to be taken when deciding to generate a Proxy-Status ﬁeld and what
information to include in it. Note that intermediaries are not required to generate a Proxy-Status
ﬁeld in any response and can conditionally generate them based upon request attributes (e.g.,
authentication tokens, IP address).

Likewise, generation of all parameters is optional, as is the generation of the ﬁeld itself. Also, the
ﬁeld's content is not veriﬁed; an intermediary can claim certain actions (e.g., sending a request
over an encrypted channel) but fail to actually do that.

5.  References

5.1.  Normative References

Nottingham & Sikora

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9209

Proxy-Status Header

June 2022

[HTTP]

[RFC2119]

[RFC7301]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8499]

[RFC8914]

,

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
97 RFC 9110 DOI 10.17487/RFC9110
rfc9110>
.

,

,

, and
, June 2022,

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP Semantics" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
,
.
rfc2119>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

Friedl, S. Popov, A. Langley, A.
Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation Extension" RFC 7301 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7301

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7301>

E. Stephan "Transport Layer Security (TLS)

, July 2014,

, and

,

,

,

,
Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

, June

,
,
Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
.
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,
Hoﬀman, P. Sullivan, A.
DOI 10.17487/RFC8499

, and

,
K. Fujiwara "DNS Terminology" BCP 219 RFC 8499
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8499>

,

,

,

, January 2019,

,

,
Kumari, W. Hunt, E. Arends, R. Hardaker, W.
Errors" RFC 8914 DOI 10.17487/RFC8914
.
editor.org/info/rfc8914>

,

,

,

, and
, October 2020,

D. Lawrence "Extended DNS

,
<https://www.rfc-

[STRUCTURED-FIELDS]

Nottingham, M.

 and
,
RFC 8941 DOI 10.17487/RFC8941
.
rfc8941>

,
P-H. Kamp "Structured Field Values for HTTP"
, March 2021,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

[TLS]

,
,
Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>

, August 2018,

,

5.2.  Informative References

[RFC8586]

,

Ludin, S. Nottingham, M.
Networks (CDNs)" RFC 8586 DOI 10.17487/RFC8586
.
editor.org/info/rfc8586>

, and
,

N. Sullivan "Loop Detection in Content Delivery
<https://www.rfc-

, April 2019,

,

,

Authors' Addresses

Mark Nottingham
Fastly
Prahran
Australia
Email:
URI:

 mnot@mnot.net
 https://www.mnot.net/

Nottingham & Sikora

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9209

Proxy-Status Header

June 2022

Piotr Sikora
Google
Email:

 piotrsikora@google.com

Nottingham & Sikora

Standards Track

Page 22

