Stream:
RFC:
STD:
Obsoletes:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9224
95
7484
Standards Track
March 2022
2070-1721
M. Blanchet
Viagenie

RFC 9224
Finding the Authoritative Registration Data Access
Protocol (RDAP) Service

Abstract

This document speciﬁes a method to ﬁnd which Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP) server
is authoritative to answer queries for a requested scope, such as domain names, IP addresses, or
Autonomous System numbers. This document obsoletes RFC 7484.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9224
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

Blanchet

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9224

Finding Authoritative RDAP Service

March 2022

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Conventions Used in This Document

3.  Structure of the RDAP Bootstrap Service Registries

4.  Bootstrap Service Registry for Domain Name Space

5.  Bootstrap Service Registries for Internet Numbers

5.1.  Bootstrap Service Registry for IPv4 Address Space

5.2.  Bootstrap Service Registry for IPv6 Address Space

5.3.  Bootstrap Service Registry for AS Number Space

6.  Entity

7.  Non-existent Entries or RDAP URL Values

8.  Deployment and Implementation Considerations

9.  Limitations

10. Formal Deﬁnition

10.1.  Imported JSON Terms

10.2.  Registry Syntax

11. Security Considerations

12. IANA Considerations

12.1.  Bootstrap Service Registry for IPv4 Address Space

12.2.  Bootstrap Service Registry for IPv6 Address Space

12.3.  Bootstrap Service Registry for AS Number Space

12.4.  Bootstrap Service Registry for Domain Name Space

13. References

13.1.  Normative References

13.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Changes since RFC 7484

Acknowledgements

Author's Address

Blanchet

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9224

Finding Authoritative RDAP Service

March 2022

1.  Introduction

Querying and retrieving registration data from registries are deﬁned in the Registration Data
Access Protocol (RDAP)
. These documents do not
[RFC7480] [RFC7481] [RFC9082] [RFC9083]
specify where to send the queries. This document speciﬁes a method to ﬁnd which server is
authoritative to answer queries for the requested scope.

Top-Level Domains (TLDs), Autonomous System (AS) numbers, and network blocks are delegated
by IANA to Internet registries such as TLD registries and Regional Internet Registries (RIRs) that
then issue further delegations and maintain information about them. Thus, the bootstrap
information needed by RDAP clients is best generated from data and processes already
maintained by IANA; the relevant registries already exist at
[ipv4reg] [ipv6reg] [asreg]
[domainreg]

. This document obsoletes

[RFC7484]

, and

,

,

.

Per this document, IANA has created new registries based on a JSON format speciﬁed in this
document, herein named RDAP Bootstrap Service Registries. These new registries are based on the
existing entries of the above-mentioned registries. An RDAP client fetches the RDAP Bootstrap
Service Registries, extracts the data, and then performs a match with the query data to ﬁnd the
authoritative registration data server and appropriate query base URL.

2.  Conventions Used in This Document

The key words "
", "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
", "
"
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

3.  Structure of the RDAP Bootstrap Service Registries

[RFC8259]

The RDAP Bootstrap Service Registries, as speciﬁed in Section 12 below, have been made available
as JSON
 objects, which can be retrieved via HTTP from locations speciﬁed by IANA. The
JSON object for each registry contains a series of members containing metadata about the
registry such as a version identiﬁer, a timestamp of the publication date of the registry, and a
description. Additionally, a "services" member contains the registry items themselves, as an array.
Each item of the array contains a second-level array, with two elements, each of them being a
third-level array.

Each element of the Services Array is a second-level array with two elements: in order, an Entry
Array and a Service URL Array.

The Entry Array contains all entries that have the same set of base RDAP URLs. The Service URL
Array contains the list of base RDAP URLs usable for the entries found in the Entry Array.
Elements within these two arrays are not ordered in any way.

An example structure of the JSON output of an RDAP Bootstrap Service Registry is illustrated:

Blanchet

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9224

Finding Authoritative RDAP Service

March 2022

{
    "version": "1.0",
    "publication": "YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SSZ",
    "description": "Some text",
    "services": [
      [
        ["entry1", "entry2", "entry3"],
        [
          "https://registry.example.com/myrdap/",
          "http://registry.example.com/myrdap/"
        ]
      ],
      [
        ["entry4"],
        [
          "https://example.org/"
        ]
      ]
    ]
}

The formal syntax is described in Section 10.

The "version" corresponds to the format version of the registry. This speciﬁcation deﬁnes version
"1.0".

The syntax of the "publication" value conforms to the Internet date/time format
value is the latest update date of the registry by IANA.

[RFC3339]

. The

The optional "description" string can contain a comment regarding the content of the bootstrap
object.

, in each array of base RDAP URLs, the secure versions of the transport protocol

 be preferred and tried ﬁrst. For example, if the base RDAP URLs array contains both

[RFC7258]

Per
SHOULD
HTTPS and HTTP URLs, the bootstrap client

SHOULD

 try the HTTPS version ﬁrst.

Base RDAP URLs
segments deﬁned in

MUST

[RFC9082]

.

 have a trailing "/" character because they are concatenated to the various

JSON names
unrecognized JSON object properties or values

 follow the format recommendations of

. Any
Section 6 of [RFC7480]
 be ignored by implementations.

MUST

MUST

Internationalized Domain Name labels used as entries or base RDAP URLs in the registries
deﬁned in this document
 be only represented using their A-label form as deﬁned in
[RFC5890]

MUST

.

All Domain Name labels used as entries or base RDAP URLs in the registries deﬁned in this
document

 be only represented in lowercase.

MUST

Blanchet

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9224

Finding Authoritative RDAP Service

March 2022

4.  Bootstrap Service Registry for Domain Name Space

The JSON output of this registry contains domain label entries attached to the root, grouped by
base RDAP URLs, as shown in this example.

{
    "version": "1.0",
    "publication": "2024-01-07T10:11:12Z",
    "description": "Some text",
    "services": [
      [
        ["net", "com"],
        [
          "https://registry.example.com/myrdap/"
        ]
      ],
      [
        ["org", "mytld"],
        [
          "https://example.org/"
        ]
      ],
      [
        ["xn--zckzah"],
        [
          "https://example.net/rdap/xn--zckzah/",
          "http://example.net/rdap/xn--zckzah/"
        ]
      ]
    ]
}

The domain name's authoritative registration data service is found by doing the label-wise
longest match of the target domain name with the domain values in the Entry Arrays in the IANA
"Bootstrap Service Registry for Domain Name Space". The match is done per label, from right to
left. If the longest match results in multiple entries, then those entries are considered equivalent.
The values contained in the Service URL Array of the matching second-level array are the valid
base RDAP URLs as described in

[RFC9082]

.

For example, a domain RDAP query for a.b.example.com matches the com entry in one of the
arrays of the registry. The base RDAP URL for this query is then taken from the second element of
the array, which is an array of base RDAP URLs valid for this entry. The client chooses one of the
base URLs from this array; in this example, it chooses the only one available, "https://
registry.example.com/myrdap/". The segment speciﬁed in
URL to complete the query. The complete query is then "https://registry.example.com/myrdap/
domain/a.b.example.com".

 is then appended to the base

[RFC9082]

If a domain RDAP query for a.b.example.com matches both com and example.com entries in the
registry, then the longest match applies and the example.com entry is used by the client.

Blanchet

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9224

Finding Authoritative RDAP Service

March 2022

If the registry contains entries such as com and goodexample.com, then a domain RDAP query
for example.com only matches the com entry because matching is done on a per-label basis.

The entry for the root of the domain name space is speciﬁed as "".

5.  Bootstrap Service Registries for Internet Numbers

This section discusses IPv4 and IPv6 address space and Autonomous System numbers.

For IP address space, the authoritative registration data service is found by doing a longest match
of the target address with the values of the arrays in the corresponding RDAP Bootstrap Service
Registry for Address Space. The longest match is done the same way as in packet forwarding: the
addresses are converted in binary form and then the binary strings are compared to ﬁnd the
longest match up to the speciﬁed preﬁx length. The values contained in the second element of the
array are the base RDAP URLs as described in
covering preﬁxes of a larger address space pointing to one base RDAP URL while more speciﬁc
preﬁxes within the covering preﬁx are being served by another base RDAP URL.

. The longest match method enables

[RFC9082]

5.1.  Bootstrap Service Registry for IPv4 Address Space

The JSON output of this registry contains IPv4 preﬁx entries, speciﬁed in Classless Inter-domain
Routing (CIDR) format

 and grouped by RDAP URLs, as shown in this example.

[RFC4632]

{
    "version": "1.0",
    "publication": "2024-01-07T10:11:12Z",
    "description": "RDAP Bootstrap file for example registries.",
    "services": [
      [
        ["198.51.100.0/24", "192.0.0.0/8"],
        [
          "https://rir1.example.com/myrdap/"
        ]
      ],
      [
        ["203.0.113.0/24", "192.0.2.0/24"],
        [
          "https://example.org/"
        ]
      ],
      [
        ["203.0.113.0/28"],
        [
          "https://example.net/rdaprir2/",
          "http://example.net/rdaprir2/"
        ]
      ]
    ]
}

Blanchet

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9224

Finding Authoritative RDAP Service

March 2022

For example, a query for "192.0.2.1/25" matches the "192.0.0.0/8" entry and the "192.0.2.0/24" entry in
the example registry above. The latter is chosen by the client because it is the longest match. The
base RDAP URL for this query is then taken from the second element of the array, which is an
array of base RDAP URLs valid for this entry. The client chooses one of the base URLs from this
array; in this example, it chooses the only one available, "https://example.org/". The {resource}
speciﬁed in
query is then "https://example.org/ip/192.0.2.1/25".

 is then appended to the base URL to complete the query. The complete

[RFC9082]

5.2.  Bootstrap Service Registry for IPv6 Address Space

The JSON output of this registry contains IPv6 preﬁx entries, using
of the address preﬁxes format, grouped by base RDAP URLs, as shown in this example.

[RFC5952]

 text representation

{
    "version": "1.0",
    "publication": "2024-01-07T10:11:12Z",
    "description": "RDAP Bootstrap file for example registries.",
    "services": [
      [
        ["2001:db8::/34"],
        [
          "https://rir2.example.com/myrdap/"
        ]
      ],
      [
        ["2001:db8:4000::/36", "2001:db8:ffff::/48"],
        [
          "https://example.org/"
        ]
      ],
      [
        ["2001:db8:1000::/36"],
        [
          "https://example.net/rdaprir2/",
          "http://example.net/rdaprir2/"
        ]
      ]
    ]
}

For example, a query for "2001:db8:1000::/48" matches the "2001:db8::/34" entry and the
"2001:db8:1000::/36" entry in the example registry above. The latter is chosen by the client because
it is the longest match. The base RDAP URL for this query is then taken from the second element of
the array, which is an array of base RDAP URLs valid for this entry. The client chooses one of the
base URLs from this array; in this example, it chooses "https://example.net/rdaprir2/" because it's
the secure version of the protocol. The segment speciﬁed in
base URL to complete the query. The complete query is therefore "https://example.net/rdaprir2/ip/
2001:db8:1000::/48". If the target RDAP server does not answer, the client can then use another
URL preﬁx from the array.

 is then appended to the

[RFC9082]

Blanchet

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9224

Finding Authoritative RDAP Service

March 2022

5.3.  Bootstrap Service Registry for AS Number Space

The JSON output of this registry contains entries for AS number ranges, grouped by base RDAP
URLs, as shown in this example. The Entry Array is an array containing the list of AS number
ranges served by the base RDAP URLs found in the second element. Each element of the array
contains two AS numbers represented in decimal format, separated by a hyphen, that represents
the range of AS numbers between the two AS numbers (inclusive), where values are in increasing
order (e.g., 100-200, not 200-100). A single AS number is represented as a range of two identical AS
numbers. AS numbers are represented as 'asplain' as deﬁned in
overlap.

[RFC5396]

MUST NOT

. Ranges

{
    "version": "1.0",
    "publication": "2024-01-07T10:11:12Z",
    "description": "RDAP Bootstrap file for example registries.",
    "services": [
      [
        ["64496-64496"],
        [
          "https://rir3.example.com/myrdap/"
        ]
      ],
      [
        ["64497-64510", "65536-65551"],
        [
          "https://example.org/"
        ]
      ],
      [
        ["64512-65534"],
        [
          "http://example.net/rdaprir2/",
          "https://example.net/rdaprir2/"
        ]
      ]
    ]
}

For example, a query for AS 65411 matches the 64512-65534 entry in the example registry above.
The base RDAP URL for this query is then taken from the second element of the array, which is an
array of base RDAP URLs valid for this entry. The client chooses one of the base URLs from this
array; in this example, it chooses "https://example.net/rdaprir2/". The segment speciﬁed in
[RFC9082]
therefore, "https://example.net/rdaprir2/autnum/65411". If the server does not answer, the client
can then use another URL preﬁx from the array.

 is then appended to the base URL to complete the query. The complete query is,

Blanchet

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9224

Finding Authoritative RDAP Service

March 2022

6.  Entity

. Since there is no global name space for entities, this document does not describe how

Entities (such as contacts, registrants, or registrars) can be queried by handle as described in
[RFC9082]
to ﬁnd the authoritative RDAP server for entities. However, it is possible that, if the entity
identiﬁer was received from a previous query, the same RDAP server could be queried for that
entity, or the entity identiﬁer itself is a fully qualiﬁed URL that can be queried. The mechanism
described in

[RFC8521] MAY

 also be used.

7.  Non-existent Entries or RDAP URL Values

The registries may not contain the requested value. In these cases, there is no known RDAP server
 provide an appropriate error message to the user.
for that requested value, and the client

SHOULD

8.  Deployment and Implementation Considerations

This method relies on the fact that RDAP clients are fetching the IANA registries to then ﬁnd the
servers locally. Clients
cache the registry, but use underlying protocol signaling, such as the HTTP Expires header ﬁeld
[RFC7234]

, to identify when it is time to refresh the cached registry.

 fetch the registry on every RDAP request. Clients

SHOULD NOT

SHOULD

Some authorities of registration data may work together on sharing their information for a
common service, including mutual redirection

[REDIRECT-RDAP]

.

When a new object is allocated, such as a new AS range, a new TLD, or a new IP address range,
there is no guarantee that this new object will have an entry in the corresponding bootstrap RDAP
registry, since the setup of the RDAP server for this new entry may become live and registered
later. Therefore, the clients should expect that even if an object, such as TLD, IP address range, or
AS range is allocated, the existence of the entry in the corresponding bootstrap registry is not
guaranteed.

9.  Limitations

This method does not provide a direct way to ﬁnd authoritative RDAP servers for any other
objects than the ones described in this document. In particular, the following objects are not
bootstrapped with the method described in this document:

•

entities

•

queries using search patterns that do not contain a terminating string that matches some
entries in the registries

•

nameservers

•

help

Blanchet

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9224

Finding Authoritative RDAP Service

March 2022

10.  Formal Deﬁnition

This section is the formal deﬁnition of the registries. The structure of JSON objects and arrays
using a set of primitive elements is deﬁned in
JSON structure of the registries.

. Those elements are used to describe the

[RFC8259]

10.1.  Imported JSON Terms

OBJECT:

a JSON object, deﬁned in

Section 4 of [RFC8259]

MEMBER:

a member of a JSON object, deﬁned in

Section 4 of [RFC8259]

MEMBER-NAME:

the name of a MEMBER, deﬁned as a "string" in

Section 4 of [RFC8259]

MEMBER-VALUE:

the value of a MEMBER, deﬁned as a "value" in

Section 4 of [RFC8259]

ARRAY:

an array, deﬁned in

Section 5 of [RFC8259]

ARRAY-VALUE:

an element of an ARRAY, deﬁned in

Section 5 of [RFC8259]

STRING:

a "string", as deﬁned in

Section 7 of [RFC8259]

10.2.  Registry Syntax

Using the above terms for the JSON structures, the syntax of a registry is deﬁned as follows:

rdap-bootstrap-registry:

an OBJECT containing a MEMBER version and a MEMBER publication,

an optional MEMBER description, and a MEMBER services-list

version:

a MEMBER with MEMBER-NAME "version" and MEMBER-VALUE a STRING

publication:

a MEMBER with MEMBER-NAME "publication" and MEMBER-VALUE a STRING

description:

a MEMBER with MEMBER-NAME "description" and MEMBER-VALUE a STRING

services-list:

a MEMBER with MEMBER-NAME "services" and MEMBER-VALUE a services-array

services-array:

an ARRAY, where each ARRAY-VALUE is a service

service:

an ARRAY of 2 elements, where the ﬁrst ARRAY-VALUE is an entry-list and the second

ARRAY-VALUE is a service-uri-list

entry-list:

an ARRAY, where each ARRAY-VALUE is an entry

entry:

a STRING

service-uri-list:

an ARRAY, where each ARRAY-VALUE is a service-uri

service-uri:

a STRING

Blanchet

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9224

Finding Authoritative RDAP Service

March 2022

11.  Security Considerations

By providing a bootstrap method to ﬁnd RDAP servers, this document helps to ensure that the end
users will get the RDAP data from an authoritative source instead of from rogue sources. The
method has the same security properties as the RDAP protocols themselves. The transport used to
access the registries uses TLS

[RFC8446]

.

Additional considerations on using RDAP are described in

[RFC7481]

.

12.  IANA Considerations

IANA has created the RDAP Bootstrap Services Registries listed below and made them available as
JSON objects. The contents of these registries are described in Sections 3, 4, and 5, with the formal
syntax speciﬁed in Section 10. The registries
[RFC8446]

 be accessible only through HTTPS (TLS

) transport.

MUST

The process for adding or updating entries in these registries diﬀers from the normal IANA
registry processes: these registries are generated from the data, processes, and policies
maintained by IANA in their allocation registries (
with the addition of new RDAP server information.

[ipv4reg] [ipv6reg] [asreg]

, and

,

,

[domainreg]

),

IANA updates RDAP Bootstrap Services Registries entries from the allocation registries as those
registries are updated.

This document does not change any policies related to the allocation registries; IANA has
provided a mechanism for collecting the RDAP server information.

IANA has created a new top-level category on the Protocol Registries page:
protocols>
. The group is called "Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP)". Each of the RDAP
Bootstrap Services Registries has been made available for on-demand download in the JSON
format by the general public, and that registry's URI is listed directly on the Protocol Registries
page.

<https://www.iana.org/

Other normal registries will be added to this group by other documents, but the reason the URIs
for these registries are clearly listed on the main page is to make those URIs obvious to
implementers -- these are registries that will be accessed by software, as well as by humans using
them for reference information.

Because these registries will be accessed by software, the download demand for the RDAP
Bootstrap Services Registries may be unusually high compared to normal IANA registries. The
technical infrastructure by which registries are published has been put in place by IANA to
support the load. Since the publication of
load or the service.

, no issues have been reported regarding the

[RFC7484]

Blanchet

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9224

Finding Authoritative RDAP Service

March 2022

As discussed in Section 8, software that accesses these registries will depend on the HTTP Expires
header ﬁeld to limit their query rate. It is, therefore, important for that header ﬁeld to be properly
set to provide timely information as the registries change, while maintaining a reasonable load
on the IANA servers.

The HTTP Content-Type returned to clients accessing these JSON-formatted registries
.
"application/json", as deﬁned in

[RFC8259]

MUST

 be

Because of how information in the RDAP Bootstrap Services Registries is grouped and formatted,
the registry entries may not be sortable. It is, therefore, not required or expected that the entries
be ordered in any way.

12.1.  Bootstrap Service Registry for IPv4 Address Space

Entries in this registry contain at least the following:

•

a CIDR

[RFC4632]

 speciﬁcation of the network block being registered

•

one or more URLs that provide the RDAP service regarding this registration

12.2.  Bootstrap Service Registry for IPv6 Address Space

Entries in this registry contain at least the following:

•

an IPv6 preﬁx

[RFC5952]

 speciﬁcation of the network block being registered

•

one or more URLs that provide the RDAP service regarding this registration

12.3.  Bootstrap Service Registry for AS Number Space

Entries in this registry contain at least the following:

•

a range of Autonomous System numbers being registered

•

one or more URLs that provide the RDAP service regarding this registration

12.4.  Bootstrap Service Registry for Domain Name Space

Entries in this registry contain at least the following:

•

a domain name attached to the root being registered

•

one or more URLs that provide the RDAP service regarding this registration

13.  References

13.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

,

,
Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
rfc2119>
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

Blanchet

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9224

Finding Authoritative RDAP Service

March 2022

[RFC3339]

[RFC4632]

[RFC5396]

[RFC5890]

[RFC5952]

[RFC7258]

[RFC7480]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8259]

Klyne, G.
,
3339 DOI 10.17487/RFC3339
,

 and

C. Newman "Date and Time on the Internet: Timestamps" RFC

,

, July 2002,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3339>
.

 and

T. Li "Classless Inter-domain Routing (CIDR): The Internet Address

Fuller, V.
Assignment and Aggregation Plan" BCP 122 RFC 4632 DOI 10.17487/RFC4632
,
August 2006,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4632>
.

,

,

,

Huston, G.
(AS) Numbers" RFC 5396 DOI 10.17487/RFC5396
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5396>

G. Michaelson "Textual Representation of Autonomous System
 and
,

, December 2008,

<https://

,

,

,

Klensin, J. "Internationalized Domain Names for Applications (IDNA):
Deﬁnitions and Document Framework" RFC 5890 DOI 10.17487/RFC5890
2010,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5890>

,

,

, August

Kawamura, S.
Representation" RFC 5952 DOI 10.17487/RFC5952
.
editor.org/info/rfc5952>

 and
,

,

,

M. Kawashima "A Recommendation for IPv6 Address Text

, August 2010,

<https://www.rfc-

Farrell, S.
,
7258 DOI 10.17487/RFC7258

H. Tschofenig "Pervasive Monitoring Is an Attack" BCP 188 RFC
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7258>

,
, May 2014,

 and

,

,

,
Newton, A. Ellacott, B.
,
Protocol (RDAP)" STD 95 RFC 7480 DOI 10.17487/RFC7480
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7480>

, and
,

,

,

N. Kong "HTTP Usage in the Registration Data Access

, March 2015,

<https://

,
,
Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
.
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,
Bray, T., Ed. "The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data Interchange Format"
STD 90 RFC 8259 DOI 10.17487/RFC8259
.
editor.org/info/rfc8259>

<https://www.rfc-

, December 2017,

,

,

13.2.  Informative References

[asreg]

IANA "Autonomous System (AS) Numbers" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/
,
as-numbers>
.

,

[domainreg]

[ipv4reg]

.
IANA "Root Zone Database" <https://www.iana.org/domains/root/db>

,

,

,

IANA "IANA IPv4 Address Space Registry" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/
.
ipv4-address-space>

,

[ipv6reg]

,

,
IANA "IPv6 Global Unicast Address Assignments" <https://www.iana.org/
.
assignments/ipv6-unicast-address-assignments>

Blanchet

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9224

Finding Authoritative RDAP Service

March 2022

[REDIRECT-RDAP]

,

Martinez, C.M., Ed. Zhou, L., Ed.
,

, and
Registration Data Access Protocol" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-
weirds-redirects-04
.
weirds-redirects-04>

,
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-

G. Rada "Redirection Service for

, July 2014,

,

[RFC7071]

[RFC7234]

[RFC7481]

[RFC7484]

[RFC8446]

[RFC8521]

[RFC9082]

[RFC9083]

 and
Borenstein, N.
RFC 7071 DOI 10.17487/RFC7071
info/rfc7071>
.

,

,
M. Kucherawy "A Media Type for Reputation Interchange"
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, November 2013,

,

,

, and
Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
,
,
Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Caching" RFC 7234 DOI 10.17487/RFC7234
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7234>

,

J. Reschke, Ed. "Hypertext Transfer

, June 2014,

 and
Hollenbeck, S.
,
Protocol (RDAP)" STD 95 RFC 7481 DOI 10.17487/RFC7481
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7481>

N. Kong "Security Services for the Registration Data Access
<https://

, March 2015,

,

,

,

,
Blanchet, M. "Finding the Authoritative Registration Data (RDAP) Service" RFC
,
7484 DOI 10.17487/RFC7484
.
rfc7484>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, March 2015,

,

,
,
Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>

, August 2018,

,

Hollenbeck, S.
Tagging" BCP 221 RFC 8521 DOI 10.17487/RFC8521
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8521>

 and
,

,

,

,

A. Newton "Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP) Object

, November 2018,

<https://

Hollenbeck, S.
Format" STD 95 RFC 9082 DOI 10.17487/RFC9082
.
editor.org/info/rfc9082>

 and
,

,

,

,

A. Newton "Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP) Query

, June 2021,

<https://www.rfc-

 and
Hollenbeck, S.
,
Protocol (RDAP)" STD 95 RFC 9083 DOI 10.17487/RFC9083
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9083>

,

,

,

A. Newton "JSON Responses for the Registration Data Access

, June 2021,

<https://

Appendix A.  Changes since RFC 7484

There are no substantive changes except for minor clariﬁcations. This update is primarily to meet
the requirements for moving to an Internet Standard.

Acknowledgements

The WEIRDS Working Group had multiple discussions on this topic, including a session during
IETF 84, where various methods such as in-DNS and others were debated. The idea of using IANA
registries was discovered by the author during discussions with his colleagues as well as by a
comment from
acknowledged.

Andy Newton
Linlin Zhou Jean-Philippe Dionne John Levine Kim Davies Ernie Dainow Scott

. All the people involved in these discussions are herein

,

,

,

,

,

Blanchet

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9224

Finding Authoritative RDAP Service

March 2022

,

Hollenbeck Arturo Servin Andy Newton Murray Kucherawy Tom Harrison Naoki Kambe
,
Alexander Mayrhofer Edward Lewis Pete Resnick Alessandro Vesely Bert Greevenbosch Barry
,
Leiba Jari Arkko Kathleen Moriaty Stephen Farrell Richard Barnes
provided input and suggestions to the ﬁrst version of this document.

Jean-Francois Tremblay

, and

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

 was a coauthor of this document for some revisions; his support is therein

. This new version [This document] received comments and suggestions from

Guillaume Leclanche
acknowledged and greatly appreciated. The section on formal deﬁnition was inspired by
6.2 of [RFC7071]
,
,
Gavin Brown Patrick Mevzek John Levine Jasdip Singh George Michaelson Scott Hollenbeck
,
,
Russ Housley Joel Halpern Lars Eggert Benjamin Kaduk Scott Kelly Éric Vyncke John Scudder
 and were
, and
Erik Kline
applied to this document.

,
. Errata for RFC 7484 were submitted by
Pieter Vandepitte

Robert Wilton

Section

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Author's Address

Marc Blanchet
Viagenie
246 Aberdeen
Quebec QC G1R 2E1
Canada
Email:
URI:

 https://viagenie.ca

 Marc.Blanchet@viagenie.ca

Blanchet

Standards Track

Page 15

