Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9068
Standards Track
October 2021
2070-1721
V. Bertocci
Auth0

RFC 9068
JSON Web Token (JWT) Proﬁle for OAuth 2.0 Access
Tokens

Abstract

This speciﬁcation deﬁnes a proﬁle for issuing OAuth 2.0 access tokens in JSON Web Token (JWT)
format. Authorization servers and resource servers from diﬀerent vendors can leverage this
proﬁle to issue and consume access tokens in an interoperable manner.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9068
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

Bertocci

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9068

OAuth 2.0 Access Token JWT Proﬁle

October 2021

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Notation and Conventions

1.2.  Terminology

2.  JWT Access Token Header and Data Structure

2.1.  Header

2.2.  Data Structure

2.2.1.  Authentication Information Claims

2.2.2.  Identity Claims

2.2.3.  Authorization Claims

2.2.3.1.  Claims for Authorization Outside of Delegation Scenarios

3.  Requesting a JWT Access Token

4.  Validating JWT Access Tokens

5.  Security Considerations

6.  Privacy Considerations

7.  IANA Considerations

7.1.  Media Type Registration

7.1.1.  Registry Content

7.2.  Claims Registration

7.2.1.  Registry Content

7.2.1.1.  Roles

7.2.1.2.  Groups

7.2.1.3.  Entitlements

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

8.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Author's Address

Bertocci

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9068

OAuth 2.0 Access Token JWT Proﬁle

October 2021

1.  Introduction

OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework [RFC6749]

 speciﬁcation does not mandate any
The original
speciﬁc format for access tokens. While that remains perfectly appropriate for many important
scenarios, in-market use has shown that many commercial OAuth 2.0 implementations elected to
issue access tokens using a format that can be parsed and validated by resource servers directly,
without further authorization server involvement. The approach is particularly common in
topologies where the authorization server and resource server are not co-located, are not run by
the same entity, or are otherwise separated by some boundary. At the time of writing, many
commercial implementations leverage the

JSON Web Token (JWT) [RFC7519]

 format.

Many vendor-speciﬁc JWT access tokens share the same functional layout, using JWT claims to
convey the information needed to support a common set of use cases: token validation,
transporting authorization information in the form of scopes and entitlements, carrying identity
information about the subject, and so on. The diﬀerences are mostly conﬁned to the claim names
and syntax used to represent the same entities, suggesting that interoperability could be easily
achieved by standardizing a common set of claims and validation rules.

The assumption that access tokens are associated with speciﬁc information doesn't appear only
in commercial implementations. Various speciﬁcations in the OAuth 2.0 family (such as
resource
, and others) postulate the presence
indicators [RFC8707] OAuth 2.0 bearer token usage [RFC6750]
of scoping mechanisms, such as an audience, in access tokens. The family of speciﬁcations
associated with introspection also indirectly suggests a fundamental set of information that
access tokens are expected to carry or at least be associated with.

,

This speciﬁcation aims to provide a standardized and interoperable proﬁle as an alternative to
the proprietary JWT access token layouts going forward. Besides deﬁning a common set of
mandatory and optional claims, the proﬁle provides clear indications on how authorization
request parameters determine the content of the issued JWT access token, how an authorization
server can publish metadata relevant to the JWT access tokens it issues, and how a resource
server should validate incoming JWT access tokens.

Finally, this speciﬁcation provides security and privacy considerations meant to prevent
common mistakes and anti-patterns that are likely to occur in naive use of the JWT format to
represent access tokens.

Please note: Although both this document and
of the OAuth2 framework, the two speciﬁcations diﬀer in both intent and mechanics. Whereas
[RFC7523]
document describes how to encode access tokens in JWT format.

 deﬁnes how a JWT Bearer Token can be used to request an access token, this

 use JSON Web Tokens in the context

[RFC7523]

Bertocci

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9068

OAuth 2.0 Access Token JWT Proﬁle

October 2021

1.1.  Requirements Notation and Conventions

The key words "
", "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
", "
"
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

1.2.  Terminology

JWT access token:

An OAuth 2.0 access token encoded in JWT format and complying with the

requirements described in this speciﬁcation.

This speciﬁcation uses the terms "access token", "refresh token", "authorization server", "resource
server", "authorization endpoint", "authorization request", "authorization response", "token
endpoint", "grant type", "access token request", "access token response", and "client" deﬁned by
The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework [RFC6749]

.

2.  JWT Access Token Header and Data Structure

2.1.  Header

 be signed. Although JWT access tokens can use any signing algorithm,

MUST

JWT access tokens
use of asymmetric cryptography is
validation information for resource servers (see Section 4). JWT access tokens
"none" as the signing algorithm. See Section 4 for more details.

RECOMMENDED

 as it simpliﬁes the process of acquiring

MUST NOT

 use

Authorization servers and resource servers conforming to this speciﬁcation
(as deﬁned in

) among their supported signature algorithms.

[RFC7518]

MUST

 include RS256

This speciﬁcation registers the "application/at+jwt" media type, which can be used to indicate that
the content is a JWT access token. JWT access tokens
 include this media type in the "typ"
header parameter to explicitly declare that the JWT represents an access token complying with
this proﬁle. Per the deﬁnition of "typ" in
"application/" preﬁx be omitted. Therefore, the "typ" value used
Security Considerations section for details on the importance of preventing OpenID Connect ID
Tokens (as deﬁned by Section 2 of
resource servers implementing this proﬁle.

) from being accepted as access tokens by

Section 4.1.9 of [RFC7515]

 be "at+jwt". See the

, it is
SHOULD

[OpenID.Core]

RECOMMENDED

 that the

MUST

2.2.  Data Structure

The following claims are used in the JWT access token data structure.

iss

exp

REQUIRED

 - as deﬁned in

Section 4.1.1 of [RFC7519]

.

REQUIRED

 - as deﬁned in

Section 4.1.4 of [RFC7519]

.

Bertocci

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9068

OAuth 2.0 Access Token JWT Proﬁle

October 2021

aud

REQUIRED

 - as deﬁned in

Section 4.1.3 of [RFC7519]

. See Section 3 for indications on how an

authorization server should determine the value of "aud" depending on the request.

sub

REQUIRED

 - as deﬁned in

Section 4.1.2 of [RFC7519]

. In cases of access tokens obtained

SHOULD

through grants where a resource owner is involved, such as the authorization code grant, the
value of "sub"
 correspond to the subject identiﬁer of the resource owner. In cases of
access tokens obtained through grants where no resource owner is involved, such as the client
credentials grant, the value of "sub"
server uses to indicate the client application. See Section 5 for more details on this scenario.
Also, see Section 6 for a discussion about how diﬀerent choices in assigning "sub" values can
impact privacy.

 correspond to an identiﬁer the authorization

SHOULD

client_id

REQUIRED

 - as deﬁned in

Section 4.3 of [RFC8693]

.

iat

jti

REQUIRED

 - as deﬁned in

Section 4.1.6 of [RFC7519]

. This claim identiﬁes the time at which the

JWT access token was issued.

REQUIRED

 - as deﬁned in

Section 4.1.7 of [RFC7519]

.

2.2.1.  Authentication Information Claims

MAY

 be issued in the context of authorization grants involving the

The claims listed in this section
resource owner and reﬂect the types and strength of authentication in the access token that the
authentication server enforced prior to returning the authorization response to the client. Their
values are ﬁxed and remain the same across all access tokens that derive from a given
authorization response, whether the access token was obtained directly in the response (e.g., via
the implicit ﬂow) or after one or more token exchanges (e.g., obtaining a fresh access token using
a refresh token or exchanging one access token for another via

 procedures).

[RFC8693]

auth_time

OPTIONAL

 - as deﬁned in Section 2 of

[OpenID.Core]

.

acr

OPTIONAL

 - as deﬁned in Section 2 of

[OpenID.Core]

.

amr

OPTIONAL

 - as deﬁned in Section 2 of

[OpenID.Core]

.

2.2.2.  Identity Claims

In the context of authorization grants involving the resource owner, commercial authorization
servers will often include resource owner attributes directly in access tokens so that resource
servers can consume them directly for authorization or other purposes without any further
) or UserInfo (
round trips to introspection (
particularly common in scenarios where the client and the resource server belong to the same
entity and are part of the same solution, as is the case for ﬁrst-party clients invoking their own
backend API.

) endpoints. This is

[OpenID.Core]

[RFC7662]

This proﬁle does not introduce any mechanism for a client to directly request the presence of
speciﬁc claims in JWT access tokens, as the authorization server can determine what additional
claims are required by a particular resource server by taking the client_id of the client and the
"scope" and the "resource" parameters included in the request into consideration.

Bertocci

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9068

OAuth 2.0 Access Token JWT Proﬁle

October 2021

Any additional identity attribute whose semantic is well described by an entry in the "JSON Web
Token (JWT)" IANA registry introduced in
claim name, if that attribute is to be included in the JWT access token. Note that the JWT IANA
registry includes the claims found in Section 5.1 of

 be encoded using the corresponding

[RFC7519] SHOULD

[OpenID.Core]

.

MAY

Authorization servers
long as the corresponding claim names are collision resistant or the access tokens are meant to
be used only within a private subsystem. Please refer to Sections 4.2 and 4.3 of
details.

 return arbitrary attributes not deﬁned in any existing speciﬁcation, as

[RFC7519]

 for

Authorization servers including resource owner attributes in JWT access tokens need to exercise
care and verify that all privacy requirements are met, as discussed in Section 6.

2.2.3.  Authorization Claims

If an authorization request includes a scope parameter, the corresponding issued JWT access
token

 include a "scope" claim as deﬁned in

Section 4.2 of [RFC8693]

SHOULD

.

All the individual scope strings in the "scope" claim
 have meaning for the resources
indicated in the "aud" claim. See Section 5 for more considerations about the relationship
between scope strings and resources indicated by the "aud" claim.

MUST

2.2.3.1.  Claims for Authorization Outside of Delegation Scenarios

Many authorization servers embed authorization attributes that go beyond the delegated
scenarios described by
resource owner memberships in roles and groups that are relevant to the resource being
accessed, entitlements assigned to the resource owner for the targeted resource that the
authorization server knows about, and so on.

 in the access tokens they issue. Typical examples include

[RFC7519]

An authorization server wanting to include such attributes in a JWT access token
"groups", "roles", and "entitlements" attributes of the "User" resource schema deﬁned by
4.1.2 of [RFC7643]

) as claim types.

SHOULD

 use the

Section

Authorization servers
deﬁned in
found in
"entitlements".

[RFC7643]

SHOULD

 encode the corresponding claim values according to the guidance

. In particular, a non-normative example of a "groups" attribute can be

Section 8.2 of [RFC7643]

. No speciﬁc vocabulary is provided for "roles" and

Section 7.2.1 of this document provides entries for registering "groups", "roles", and "entitlements"
attributes from

 as claim types to be used in this proﬁle.

[RFC7643]

3.  Requesting a JWT Access Token

An authorization server can issue a JWT access token in response to any authorization grant
deﬁned by

 and subsequent extensions meant to result in an access token.

[RFC6749]

If the request includes a "resource" parameter (as deﬁned in
token "aud" claim

SHOULD

 have the same value as the "resource" parameter in the request.

[RFC8707]

), the resulting JWT access

Bertocci

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9068

OAuth 2.0 Access Token JWT Proﬁle

October 2021

Example request below:

GET /as/authorization.oauth2?response_type=code
        &client_id=s6BhdRkqt3
        &state=xyz
        &scope=openid%20profile%20reademail
        &redirect_uri=https%3A%2F%2Fclient%2Eexample%2Ecom%2Fcb
        &resource=https%3A%2F%2Frs.example.com%2F HTTP/1.1
     Host: authorization-server.example.com

Figure 1: Authorization Request with Resource and Scope Parameters

Once redeemed, the code obtained from the request above will result in a JWT access token in the
form shown below:

Header:

   {"typ":"at+JWT","alg":"RS256","kid":"RjEwOwOA"}

Claims:

   {
     "iss": "https://authorization-server.example.com/",
     "sub": "5ba552d67",
     "aud":   "https://rs.example.com/",
     "exp": 1639528912,
     "iat": 1618354090,
     "jti" : "dbe39bf3a3ba4238a513f51d6e1691c4",
     "client_id": "s6BhdRkqt3",
     "scope": "openid profile reademail"
   }

Figure 2: The Header and JWT Claims Set of a JWT Access Token

The authorization server
token would be ambiguous. See Section 5 for more details about common cases that might lead to
ambiguity and strategies an authorization server can enact to prevent them.

 issue a JWT access token if the authorization granted by the

MUST NOT

If the request does not include a "resource" parameter, the authorization server
default resource indicator in the "aud" claim. If a "scope" parameter is present in the request, the
authorization server
 use it to infer the value of the default resource indicator to be used
in the "aud" claim. The mechanism through which scopes are associated with default resource
indicator values is outside the scope of this speciﬁcation. If the values in the "scope" parameter
refer to diﬀerent default resource indicator values, the authorization server
 reject the
request with "invalid_scope" as described in

Section 4.1.2.1 of [RFC6749]

SHOULD

SHOULD

 use a

MUST

.

Bertocci

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9068

OAuth 2.0 Access Token JWT Proﬁle

October 2021

4.  Validating JWT Access Tokens

For the purpose of facilitating validation data retrieval, it is
authorization servers sign JWT access tokens with an asymmetric algorithm.

RECOMMENDED

 here that

 use

SHOULD

OAuth 2.0 Authorization Server Metadata [RFC8414]

Authorization servers
advertise to resource servers their signing keys via "jwks_uri" and what "iss" claim value to expect
via the "issuer" metadata value. Alternatively, authorization servers implementing OpenID
Connect
OpenID Connect discovery [OpenID.Discovery]
purpose. If an authorization server supports both OAuth 2.0 Authorization Server Metadata and
OpenID Connect discovery, the values provided
methods.

 be consistent across the two publication

 document for the same

 use the

MUST

MAY

 to

MAY

 elect to use diﬀerent keys to sign OpenID Connect ID Tokens and

An authorization server
JWT access tokens. This speciﬁcation does not provide a mechanism for identifying a speciﬁc key
as the one used to sign JWT access tokens. An authorization server can sign JWT access tokens
with any of the keys advertised via authorization server (AS) metadata or OpenID Connect
discovery. See Section 5 for further guidance on security implications.

Resource servers receiving a JWT access token

MUST

 validate it in the following manner.

•

The resource server
MUST
and reject tokens carrying any other value.

 verify that the "typ" header value is "at+jwt" or "application/at+jwt"

•

If the JWT access token is encrypted, decrypt it using the keys and algorithms that the
resource server speciﬁed during registration. If encryption was negotiated with the
authorization server at registration time and the incoming JWT access token is not
encrypted, the resource server

 reject it.

SHOULD

•

The issuer identiﬁer for the authorization server (which is typically obtained during
discovery)

 exactly match the value of the "iss" claim.

MUST

•

MUST

The resource server
 validate that the "aud" claim contains a resource indicator value
corresponding to an identiﬁer the resource server expects for itself. The JWT access token
MUST
as a valid audience.

 be rejected if "aud" does not contain a resource indicator of the current resource server

•

MUST

The resource server
to
server
the keys provided by the authorization server.

[RFC7515]
MUST

 validate the signature of all incoming JWT access tokens according

 using the algorithm speciﬁed in the JWT "alg" Header Parameter. The resource
 reject any JWT in which the value of "alg" is "none". The resource server
MUST

 use

•

The current time
 be before the time represented by the "exp" claim. Implementers
provide for some small leeway, usually no more than a few minutes, to account for clock
skew.

MUST

MAY

Bertocci

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9068

OAuth 2.0 Access Token JWT Proﬁle

October 2021

MUST

 handle errors as described in

The resource server
case of any failure in the validation checks listed above, the authorization server response
include the error code "invalid_token". Please note that this requirement does not prevent JWT
access tokens from using authentication schemes other than "Bearer".

. In particular, in
MUST

Section 3.1 of [RFC6750]

SHOULD

If the JWT access token includes authorization claims as described in Section 2.2.3, the resource
server
determine whether the current call should be authorized or rejected. Details about how a resource
server performs those checks is beyond the scope of this proﬁle speciﬁcation.

 use them in combination with any other contextual information available to

5.  Security Considerations

[OpenID.Core]

The JWT access token data layout described here is very similar to that of the id_token as deﬁned
by
. The explicit typing required in this proﬁle, in line with the recommendations in
[RFC8725]
Connect ID Tokens.

, helps the resource server to distinguish between JWT access tokens and OpenID

Authorization servers should prevent scenarios where clients can aﬀect the value of the "sub"
claim in ways that could confuse resource servers. For example, if the authorization server elects
to use the client_id as the "sub" value for access tokens issued using the client credentials grant,
the authorization server should prevent clients from registering an arbitrary client_id value, as
this would allow malicious clients to select the sub of a high-privilege resource owner and confuse
any authorization logic on the resource server relying on the "sub" value. For more details, please
refer to

Section 4.14 of [OAuth2.Security.BestPractices]

.

To prevent cross-JWT confusion, authorization servers
claim value to uniquely identify access tokens issued by the same issuer for distinct resources. For
more details on cross-JWT confusion, please refer to

 use a distinct identiﬁer as an "aud"

Section 2.8 of [RFC8725]

MUST

.

Authorization servers should use particular care when handling requests that might lead to
ambiguous authorization grants. For example, if a request includes multiple resource indicators,
the authorization server should ensure that each scope string included in the resulting JWT access
token, if any, can be unambiguously correlated to a speciﬁc resource among the ones listed in the
"aud" claim. The details on how to recognize and mitigate this and other ambiguous situations is
highly scenario dependent and hence is out of scope for this proﬁle.

Authorization servers cannot rely on the use of diﬀerent keys for signing OpenID Connect ID
Tokens and JWT tokens as a method to safeguard against the consequences of leaking speciﬁc
keys. Given that resource servers have no way of knowing what key should be used to validate
JWT access tokens in particular, they have to accept signatures performed with any of the keys
published in AS metadata or OpenID Connect discovery; consequently, an attacker just needs to
compromise any key among the ones published to be able to generate and sign JWTs that will be
accepted as valid by the resource server.

Bertocci

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9068

OAuth 2.0 Access Token JWT Proﬁle

October 2021

6.  Privacy Considerations

As JWT access tokens carry information by value, it now becomes possible for clients and
potentially even end users to directly peek inside the token claims collection of unencrypted
tokens.

MUST NOT

 inspect the content of the access token: the authorization server and the

The client
resource server might decide to change the token format at any time (for example, by switching
from this proﬁle to opaque tokens); hence, any logic in the client relying on the ability to read the
access token content would break without recourse. The OAuth 2.0 framework assumes that
access tokens are treated as opaque by clients. Administrators of authorization servers should
also take into account that the content of an access token is visible to the client. Whenever client
access to the access token content presents privacy issues for a given scenario, the authorization
server needs to take explicit steps to prevent them.

In scenarios in which JWT access tokens are accessible to the end user, it should be evaluated
whether the information can be accessed without privacy violations (for example, if an end user
would simply access his or her own personal information) or if steps must be taken to enforce
conﬁdentiality.

Possible measures to prevent leakage of information to clients and end users include: encrypting
the access token, encrypting the sensitive claims, omitting the sensitive claims or not using this
proﬁle, and falling back on opaque access tokens.

In every scenario, the content of the JWT access token will eventually be accessible to the
resource server. It's important to evaluate whether the resource server gained the proper
entitlement to have access to any content received in the form of claims, for example, through
user consent in some form, policies and agreements with the organization running the
authorization servers, and so on. For example, a user might not wish to consent to granting given
resource server information about any of the non-mandatory claims enumerated in Section 2
(and its subsections).

Bertocci

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9068

OAuth 2.0 Access Token JWT Proﬁle

October 2021

This proﬁle mandates the presence of the "sub" claim in every JWT access token, making it
possible for resource servers to rely on that information for correlating incoming requests with
data stored locally for the authenticated principal. Although the ability to correlate requests
might be required by design in many scenarios, there are scenarios where the authorization
server might want to prevent correlation. The "sub" claim should be populated by the
authorization servers according to a privacy impact assessment. For instance, if a solution
requires preventing tracking of principal activities across multiple resource servers, the
authorization server should ensure that JWT access tokens meant for diﬀerent resource servers
have distinct "sub" values that cannot be correlated in the event of resource server collusion.
Similarly, if a solution requires preventing a resource server from correlating the principal's
activity within the resource itself, the authorization server should assign diﬀerent "sub" values for
every JWT access token issued. In turn, the client should obtain a new JWT access token for every
call to the resource server to ensure that the resource server receives diﬀerent "sub" and "jti"
values at every call, thus preventing correlation between distinct requests.

7.  IANA Considerations

7.1.  Media Type Registration

7.1.1.  Registry Content

This section registers "application/at+jwt", a new media type
registry
the content is an access token encoded in JWT format.

 in the manner described in

[IANA.MediaTypes]

[RFC2046]

 in the "Media Types"
. It can be used to indicate that

[RFC6838]

Type name:

Application

Subtype name:

at+jwt

Required parameters:

N/A

Optional parameters:

N/A

Encoding considerations:

Binary; JWT values are encoded as a series of base64url-encoded

values (with trailing '=' characters removed), some of which may be the empty string,
separated by period ('.') characters.

Security considerations:

See the Security Considerations section of RFC 9068.

Interoperability considerations:

N/A

Published speciﬁcation:

RFC 9068

Applications that use this media type:

Applications that access resource servers using OAuth 2.0

access tokens encoded in JWT format

Fragment identiﬁer considerations:

N/A

Additional information:

Bertocci

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9068

OAuth 2.0 Access Token JWT Proﬁle

October 2021

Magic number(s):
File extension(s):
Macintosh ﬁle type code(s):

N/A
N/A

N/A

Person & email address to contact for further information:

Vittorio Bertocci <vittorio@auth0.com>

Intended usage:

COMMON

Restrictions on usage:

None

Author:

Vittorio Bertocci <vittorio@auth0.com>

Change controller:

IETF

Provisional registration?

No

7.2.  Claims Registration

Section 2.2.3.1 of this speciﬁcation refers to the attributes "roles", "groups", "entitlements" deﬁned
in
those attributes as claims in the "JSON Web Token (JWT)" IANA registry introduced in

 to express authorization information in JWT access tokens. This section registers

[RFC7643]

[RFC7519]

.

7.2.1.  Registry Content

7.2.1.1.  Roles

roles

Claim Name:
Claim Description:
Change Controller:
Speciﬁcation Document(s):

Roles
IETF

7.2.1.2.  Groups

groups

Claim Name:
Claim Description:
Change Controller:
Speciﬁcation Document(s):

Groups
IETF

7.2.1.3.  Entitlements

Section 4.1.2 of [RFC7643]

 and Section 2.2.3.1 of RFC 9068

Section 4.1.2 of [RFC7643]

 and Section 2.2.3.1 of RFC 9068

entitlements

Claim Name:
Claim Description:
Change Controller:
Speciﬁcation Document(s):

Entitlements
IETF

Section 4.1.2 of [RFC7643]

 and Section 2.2.3.1 of RFC 9068

Bertocci

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9068

OAuth 2.0 Access Token JWT Proﬁle

October 2021

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

[OpenID.Core]

,

Sakimura, N. Bradley, J. Jones, M. de Medeiros, B.
,
Connect Core 1.0 incorporating errata set 1"
specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html>
.

, and
, November 2014,

,

C. Mortimore "OpenID

,

<https://openid.net/

[OpenID.Discovery]

Sakimura, N. Bradley, J. Jones, M.

,
, November 2014,
1.0 incorporating errata set 1"
.
connect-discovery-1_0.html>

, and

,

,

E. Jay "OpenID Connect Discovery
<https://openid.net/specs/openid-

[RFC2046]

[RFC2119]

[RFC6749]

[RFC6838]

[RFC7515]

[RFC7518]

[RFC7519]

[RFC7643]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8414]

N. Borenstein "Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME) Part

 and

Freed, N.
Two: Media Types" RFC 2046 DOI 10.17487/RFC2046
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2046>

,

,

,

, November 1996,

<https://

,

,
Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
.
rfc2119>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

Hardt, D., Ed. "The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework" RFC 6749 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6749

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6749>

, October 2012,

,

,

,

,
Freed, N. Klensin, J.
Procedures" BCP 13 RFC 6838 DOI 10.17487/RFC6838
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6838>

, and
,

,

,

,

T. Hansen "Media Type Speciﬁcations and Registration

, January 2013,

<https://

,
Jones, M. Bradley, J.
DOI 10.17487/RFC7515

, and

,
N. Sakimura "JSON Web Signature (JWS)" RFC 7515

,

,

, May 2015,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7515>

Jones, M. "JSON Web Algorithms (JWA)" RFC 7518 DOI 10.17487/RFC7518
2015,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7518>

,

,

,

, May

,
Jones, M. Bradley, J.
10.17487/RFC7519

, and
, May 2015,

N. Sakimura "JSON Web Token (JWT)" RFC 7519 DOI

,

,

,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7519>

,

Hunt, P., Ed. Grizzle, K. Wahlstroem, E.
,
domain Identity Management: Core Schema" RFC 7643 DOI 10.17487/RFC7643
September 2015,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7643>

C. Mortimore "System for Cross-

, and

,

,

,

,

,
,
Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
.
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

Jones, M. Sakimura, N.
,
,
Metadata" RFC 8414 DOI 10.17487/RFC8414
.
editor.org/info/rfc8414>

, and

,

J. Bradley "OAuth 2.0 Authorization Server
, June 2018,
<https://www.rfc-

Bertocci

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9068

OAuth 2.0 Access Token JWT Proﬁle

October 2021

[RFC8693]

[RFC8707]

[RFC8725]

,

Jones, M. Nadalin, A. Campbell, B., Ed. Bradley, J.
Token Exchange" RFC 8693 DOI 10.17487/RFC8693
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8693>
.

,

,

,

,

C. Mortimore "OAuth 2.0

, and
, January 2020,

,
<https://

,

Campbell, B. Bradley, J.
,
RFC 8707 DOI 10.17487/RFC8707
.
rfc8707>

, and

,
H. Tschofenig "Resource Indicators for OAuth 2.0"
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, February 2020,

,

,
Sheﬀer, Y. Hardt, D.
,
225 RFC 8725 DOI 10.17487/RFC8725
.
info/rfc8725>

, and

,

,

M. Jones "JSON Web Token Best Current Practices" BCP
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, February 2020,

,

8.2.  Informative References

[IANA.MediaTypes]

IANA "Media Types" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/media-types/>
.

,

,

[OAuth2.Security.BestPractices]

D. Fett "OAuth
,
Lodderstedt, T. Bradley, J. Labunets, A.
2.0 Security Best Current Practice" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-
oauth-security-topics-18
.
draft-ietf-oauth-security-topics-18>

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/

, 13 April 2021,

, and

,
,

,

,

[RFC6750]

[RFC7523]

[RFC7662]

 and

Jones, M.
Usage" RFC 6750 DOI 10.17487/RFC6750
.
editor.org/info/rfc6750>

D. Hardt "The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework: Bearer Token
, October 2012,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

,

,

Jones, M. Campbell, B.
OAuth 2.0 Client Authentication and Authorization Grants" RFC 7523 DOI
10.17487/RFC7523

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7523>

C. Mortimore "JSON Web Token (JWT) Proﬁle for

, May 2015,

, and

,

,

,
,
Richer, J., Ed. "OAuth 2.0 Token Introspection" RFC 7662 DOI 10.17487/RFC7662
October 2015,

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7662>

,

Acknowledgements

Brian Campbell

The initial set of requirements informing this speciﬁcation was extracted by numerous examples
of access tokens issued in JWT format by production systems. Thanks to
(IdentityServer),
(Okta) for providing sample tokens issued by their products and services.
Filip Skokan
was discussed at length during the OAuth Security Workshop 2019, with several individuals
contributing ideas and feedback. The author would like to acknowledge the contributions of:

 and
 provided early feedback that shaped the direction of the speciﬁcation. This proﬁle

 (Microsoft), and

Daniel Dobalian

 (Ping Identity),

Dominick Baier

Brian Campbell

Karl Guinness

John Bradley Brian Campbell Vladimir Dzhuvinov Torsten Lodderstedt Nat Sakimura Hannes
Tschofenig
, and everyone who actively participated in the unconference discussions.

,

,

,

,

,

The following individuals contributed useful feedback and insights on the drafts, both at the IETF
OAuth 2.0 WG mailing list and during the 28th Internet Identity Workshop (IIW 28):

Bertocci

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9068

OAuth 2.0 Access Token JWT Proﬁle

October 2021

,

,

,

,

,

,

Dale Olds George Fletcher David Waite Michael Engan Mike Jones Hans Zandbelt Vladimir
Dzhuvinov Martin Schanzenbach Aaron Parecki Annabelle Richard Backman Dick Hardt
,
Denis Pinkas Benjamin Kaduk Dominick Baier Andrii Deinega Mike Jones
, and everyone who
,
actively participated in the IIW 28 unconference discussions and the IETF OAuth 2.0 WG mailing
 for
list discussions. Thanks to
the SECDIR and GENART reviews; and
Roberto Polli Martin Duke Benjamin Kaduk

Francesca Palomini Lars Eggert Murray Kucherawy

Roni Even
,

 for the IESG reviews.

 for the AD review;

Roman Danyliw

Joseph Salowey

 and

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Author's Address

Vittorio Bertocci
Auth0
Email:

 vittorio@auth0.com

Bertocci

Standards Track

Page 15

