Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9157
5155, 6014, 8624
Standards Track
November 2021
2070-1721
P. Hoﬀman
ICANN

RFC 9157
Revised IANA Considerations for DNSSEC

Abstract

This document changes the review requirements needed to get DNSSEC algorithms and resource
records added to IANA registries. It updates RFC 6014 to include hash algorithms for Delegation
Signer (DS) records and NextSECure version 3 (NSEC3) parameters (for Hashed Authenticated
Denial of Existence). It also updates RFCs 5155 and 6014, which have requirements for DNSSEC
algorithms, and updates RFC 8624 to clarify the implementation recommendation related to the
algorithms described in RFCs that are not on the standards track. The rationale for these changes
is to bring the requirements for DS records and hash algorithms used in NSEC3 in line with the
requirements for all other DNSSEC algorithms.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

.
https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9157

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Hoﬀman

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9157

IANA Revisions for DNSSEC

November 2021

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

2.  Update to RFC 6014

3.  Update to RFC 8624

4.  IANA Considerations

5.  Security Considerations

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

6.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

DNSSEC is primarily described in
another resource record beyond those deﬁned in
records were originally deﬁned in

, and
[RFC4034]

[RFC4035]
: NSEC3
, and that deﬁnition was obsoleted by

[RFC4033] [RFC4034]
,

[RFC5155]

[RFC3658]

. DS resource

[RFC4034]

.

. DNSSEC commonly uses

 updates the requirements for how DNSSEC cryptographic algorithm identiﬁers in the

[RFC6014]
IANA registries are assigned, reducing the requirements from "Standards Action" to "RFC
Required". However, the IANA registry requirements for hash algorithms for DS records
and for the hash algorithms used in NSEC3 records
document updates those IANA registry requirements. (For a reference on how IANA registries can
be updated in general, see

 are still "Standards Action". This

[RFC5155]

[RFC8126]

[RFC3658]

.)

1.1.  Requirements Language

", "
The key words "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
"
", "
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

Hoﬀman

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9157

IANA Revisions for DNSSEC

November 2021

2.  Update to RFC 6014

[RFC6014]

 to bring the requirements for DS records and NSEC3 hash algorithms
Section 4 updates
in line with the rest of the DNSSEC cryptographic algorithms by allowing any DS hash algorithms,
NSEC3 hash algorithms, NSEC3 parameters, and NSEC3 ﬂags that are fully described in an RFC to
have identiﬁers assigned in the IANA registries. This is an addition to the IANA considerations in
[RFC6014]

.

3.  Update to RFC 8624

This document updates
track.

[RFC8624]

 for all DNSKEY and DS algorithms that are not on the standards

The second paragraph of

Section 1.2 of [RFC8624]

 currently says:

This document only provides recommendations with respect to mandatory-to-
implement algorithms or algorithms so weak that they cannot be recommended. Any
algorithm listed in the [DNSKEY-IANA] and [DS-IANA] registries that are not mentioned
 be implemented. For clariﬁcation and consistency, an algorithm
in this document
will be speciﬁed as
 in this document only when it has been downgraded from a
MUST

RECOMMENDED

MAY

MAY

 or a

 to a

.
MAY

That paragraph is now replaced with the following:

This document provides recommendations with respect to mandatory-to-implement
algorithms, algorithms so weak that they cannot be recommended, and algorithms
deﬁned in RFCs that are not on the standards track. Any algorithm listed in the [DNSKEY-
IANA] and [DS-IANA] registries that are not mentioned in this document
implemented. For clariﬁcation and consistency, an algorithm will be speciﬁed as
this document only when it has been downgraded from a
.
MAY

RECOMMENDED

 in
 to a

 or a

MUST

MAY

MAY

 be

This update is also reﬂected in the IANA considerations in Section 4.

4.  IANA Considerations

In the "Domain Name System Security (DNSSEC) NextSECure3 (NSEC3) Parameters" registry, the
registration procedure for "DNSSEC NSEC3 Flags", "DNSSEC NSEC3 Hash Algorithms", and "DNSSEC
NSEC3PARAM Flags" has been changed from "Standards Action" to "RFC Required", and this
document has been added as a reference.

Hoﬀman

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9157

IANA Revisions for DNSSEC

November 2021

In the "DNSSEC Delegation Signer (DS) Resource Record (RR) Type Digest Algorithms" registry, the
registration procedure for "Digest Algorithms" has been changed from "Standards Action" to "RFC
Required", and this document has been added as a reference.

5.  Security Considerations

Changing the requirements for adding security algorithms to IANA registries as described in this
document will make it easier to add both good and bad algorithms to the registries. It is
impossible to weigh the security impact of those two changes.

Administrators of DNSSEC-signed zones and validating resolvers may have been making security
decisions based on the contents of the IANA registries. This was a bad idea in the past, and now it
is an even worse idea because there will be more algorithms in those registries that may not have
gone through IETF review. Security decisions about which algorithms are safe and not safe should
be made by reading the security literature, not by looking in IANA registries.

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC4033]

[RFC4034]

[RFC4035]

[RFC5155]

[RFC6014]

[RFC8126]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
,
.
rfc2119>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

,
,
Arends, R. Austein, R. Larson, M. Massey, D.
,
,
Introduction and Requirements" RFC 4033 DOI 10.17487/RFC4033
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4033>

, and

,

S. Rose "DNS Security

, March 2005,

,

,
Arends, R. Austein, R. Larson, M. Massey, D.
the DNS Security Extensions" RFC 4034 DOI 10.17487/RFC4034
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4034>

, and

,

,

,

,

S. Rose "Resource Records for

, March 2005,

,

,
Arends, R. Austein, R. Larson, M. Massey, D.
,
Modiﬁcations for the DNS Security Extensions" RFC 4035 DOI 10.17487/RFC4035
March 2005,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4035>

,
S. Rose "Protocol
,

, and
,

,

,

, and
Laurie, B. Sisson, G. Arends, R.
,
Authenticated Denial of Existence" RFC 5155 DOI 10.17487/RFC5155
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5155>

,
,

D. Blacka "DNS Security (DNSSEC) Hashed

, March 2008,

,

,

Hoﬀman, P. "Cryptographic Algorithm Identiﬁer Allocation for DNSSEC" RFC
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
6014 DOI 10.17487/RFC6014
.
rfc6014>

, November 2010,

,

,
Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

, June

Hoﬀman

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9157

IANA Revisions for DNSSEC

November 2021

[RFC8174]

[RFC8624]

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
,
rfc8174>
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

O. Sury "Algorithm Implementation Requirements and Usage

 and

Wouters, P.
Guidance for DNSSEC" RFC 8624 DOI 10.17487/RFC8624
,
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8624>

,
,

, June 2019,

<https://

6.2.  Informative References

[RFC3658]

Gudmundsson, O. "Delegation Signer (DS) Resource Record (RR)" RFC 3658 DOI
10.17487/RFC3658

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3658>
.

,
, December 2003,

,

Acknowledgements

Donald Eastlake Murray Kucherawy Dan Harkins Martin Duke
contributed to this document.

,

,

,

, and

Benjamin Kaduk

Author's Address

Paul Hoﬀman
ICANN
Email:

 paul.hoﬀman@icann.org

Hoﬀman

Standards Track

Page 5

