Stream:
RFC:
Obsoletes:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9457
7807
Standards Track
July 2023
2070-1721
M. Nottingham E. Wilde

S. Dalal

RFC 9457
Problem Details for HTTP APIs

Abstract

This document defines a "problem detail" to carry machine-readable details of errors in HTTP
response content to avoid the need to define new error response formats for HTTP APIs.

This document obsoletes RFC 7807.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9457
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Nottingham, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9457

Problem Details for HTTP APIs

July 2023

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Requirements Language

3.  The Problem Details JSON Object

3.1.  Members of a Problem Details Object

3.1.1.  "type"

3.1.2.  "status"

3.1.3.  "title"

3.1.4.  "detail"

3.1.5.  "instance"

3.2.  Extension Members

4.  Defining New Problem Types

4.1.  Example

4.2.  Registered Problem Types

4.2.1.  about:blank

5.  Security Considerations

6.  IANA Considerations

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  JSON Schema for HTTP Problems

Appendix B.  HTTP Problems and XML

Appendix C.  Using Problem Details with Other Formats

Appendix D.  Changes from RFC 7807

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

3

4

4

5

6

6

7

7

7

8

8

9

9

10

10

11

11

11

12

12

13

15

15

16

16

Nottingham, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9457

Problem Details for HTTP APIs

July 2023

1.  Introduction

HTTP status codes (
to be helpful. While humans using web browsers can often understand an HTML
response content, non-human consumers of HTTP APIs have difficulty doing so.

Section 15 of [HTTP]

) cannot always convey enough information about errors

[HTML5]

[XML]
To address that shortcoming, this specification defines simple JSON
document formats to describe the specifics of a problem encountered -- "problem details".

 and XML

[JSON]

For example, consider a response indicating that the client's account doesn't have enough credit.
The API's designer might decide to use the 403 Forbidden status code to inform generic HTTP
software (such as client libraries, caches, and proxies) of the response's general semantics. API-
specific problem details (such as why the server refused the request and the applicable account
balance) can be carried in the response content so that the client can act upon them
appropriately (for example, triggering a transfer of more credit into the account).

This specification identifies the specific "problem type" (e.g., "out of credit") with a URI
HTTP APIs can use URIs under their control to identify problems specific to them or can reuse
existing ones to facilitate interoperability and leverage common semantics (see Section 4.2).

[URI]
.

Problem details can contain other information, such as a URI identifying the problem's specific
occurrence (effectively giving an identifier to the concept "The time Joe didn't have enough credit
last Thursday"), which can be useful for support or forensic purposes.

The data model for problem details is a JSON
it uses the "application/problem+json" media type. Appendix B defines an equivalent XML
format, which uses the "application/problem+xml" media type.

 object; when serialized as a JSON document,

[JSON]

When they are conveyed in an HTTP response, the contents of problem details can be negotiated
using proactive negotiation; see
. In particular, the language used for
human-readable strings (such as those in title and description) can be negotiated using the
Accept-Language request header field (
still result in a non-preferred, default representation being returned.

), although that negotiation may

Section 12.5.4 of [HTTP]

Section 12.1 of [HTTP]

Problem details can be used with any HTTP status code, but they most naturally fit the semantics
of 4xx and 5xx responses. Note that problem details are (naturally) not the only way to convey
the details of a problem in HTTP. If the response is still a representation of a resource, for
example, it's often preferable to describe the relevant details in that application's format.
Likewise, defined HTTP status codes cover many situations with no need to convey extra detail.

This specification's aim is to define common error formats for applications that need one so that
they aren't required to define their own or, worse, tempted to redefine the semantics of existing
HTTP status codes. Even if an application chooses not to use it to convey errors, reviewing its
design can help guide the design decisions faced when conveying errors in an existing format.

See Appendix D for a list of changes from

[RFC7807]
.

Nottingham, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9457

Problem Details for HTTP APIs

July 2023

2.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  The Problem Details JSON Object

The canonical model for problem details is a JSON
document, that format is identified with the "application/problem+json" media type.

 object. When serialized in a JSON

[JSON]

For example:

POST /purchase HTTP/1.1
Host: store.example.com
Content-Type: application/json
Accept: application/json, application/problem+json

{
  "item": 123456,
  "quantity": 2
}

HTTP/1.1 403 Forbidden
Content-Type: application/problem+json
Content-Language: en

{
 "type": "https://example.com/probs/out-of-credit",
 "title": "You do not have enough credit.",
 "detail": "Your current balance is 30, but that costs 50.",
 "instance": "/account/12345/msgs/abc",
 "balance": 30,
 "accounts": ["/account/12345",
              "/account/67890"]
}

Here, the out-of-credit problem (identified by its type) indicates the reason for the 403 in "title",
identifies the specific problem occurrence with "instance", gives occurrence-specific details in
"detail", and adds two extensions: "balance" conveys the account's balance, and "accounts" lists
links where the account can be topped up.

When designed to accommodate it, problem-specific extensions can convey more than one
instance of the same problem type. For example:

Nottingham, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9457

Problem Details for HTTP APIs

July 2023

POST /details HTTP/1.1
Host: account.example.com
Accept: application/json

{
  "age": 42.3,
  "profile": {
    "color": "yellow"
  }
}

HTTP/1.1 422 Unprocessable Content
Content-Type: application/problem+json
Content-Language: en

{
 "type": "https://example.net/validation-error",
 "title": "Your request is not valid.",
 "errors": [
             {
               "detail": "must be a positive integer",
               "pointer": "#/age"
             },
             {
               "detail": "must be 'green', 'red' or 'blue'",
               "pointer": "#/profile/color"
             }
          ]
}

The fictional problem type here defines the "errors" extension, an array that describes the details
of each validation error. Each member is an object containing "detail" to describe the issue and
"pointer" to locate the problem within the request's content using a JSON Pointer
POINTER]
.

[JSON-

When an API encounters multiple problems that do not share the same type, it is
that the most relevant or urgent problem be represented in the response. While it is possible to
create generic "batch" problem types that convey multiple, disparate types, they do not map well
into HTTP semantics.

RECOMMENDED

Note also that the API has responded with the "application/problem+json" type, even though the
client did not list it in Accept, as is allowed by HTTP (see

Section 12.5.1 of [HTTP]

).

3.1.  Members of a Problem Details Object

Problem detail objects can have the following members. If a member's value type does not match
the specified type, the member
 be ignored -- i.e., processing will continue as if the member
had not been present.

MUST

Nottingham, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9457

Problem Details for HTTP APIs

July 2023

3.1.1.  "type"

The "type" member is a JSON string containing a URI reference
type. Consumers
primary identifier.

MUST

 use the "type" URI (after resolution, if necessary) as the problem type's

[URI]

 that identifies the problem

When this member is not present, its value is assumed to be "about:blank".

If the type URI is a locator (e.g., those with an "http" or "https" scheme), dereferencing it
provide human-readable documentation for the problem type (e.g., using HTML
However, consumers
when providing information to developers (e.g., when a debugging tool is in use).

 automatically dereference the type URI, unless they do so

SHOULD NOT

[HTML5]

).

SHOULD

When "type" contains a relative URI, it is resolved relative to the document's base URI, as per
[URI], Section 5
handled correctly by all implementations.

. However, using relative URIs can cause confusion, and they might not be

For example, if the two resources "https://api.example.org/foo/bar/123" and "https://
api.example.org/widget/456" both respond with a "type" equal to the relative URI reference
"example-problem", when resolved they will identify different resources ("https://
api.example.org/foo/bar/example-problem" and "https://api.example.org/widget/example-
problem", respectively). As a result, it is
RECOMMENDED
when possible and that when relative URIs are used, they include the full path (e.g., "/types/123").

 that absolute URIs be used in "type"

The type URI is allowed to be a non-resolvable URI. For example, the tag URI scheme
used to uniquely identify problem types:

[TAG]

 can be

tag:example@example.org,2021-09-17:OutOfLuck

However, resolvable type URIs are encouraged by this specification because it might become
desirable to resolve the URI in the future. For example, if an API designer used the URI above and
later adopted a tool that resolves type URIs to discover information about the error, taking
advantage of that capability would require switching to a resolvable URI, creating a new identity
for the problem type and thus introducing a breaking change.

3.1.2.  "status"

The "status" member is a JSON number indicating the HTTP status code (
generated by the origin server for this occurrence of the problem.

[HTTP], Section 15
)

The "status" member, if present, is only advisory; it conveys the HTTP status code used for the
convenience of the consumer. Generators
response, to assure that generic HTTP software that does not understand this format still behaves
correctly. See Section 5 for further caveats regarding its use.

 use the same status code in the actual HTTP

MUST

Nottingham, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9457

Problem Details for HTTP APIs

July 2023

Consumers can use the status member to determine what the original status code used by the
generator was when it has been changed (e.g., by an intermediary or cache) and when a
message's content is persisted without HTTP information. Generic HTTP software will still use
the HTTP status code.

3.1.3.  "title"

The "title" member is a JSON string containing a short, human-readable summary of the problem
type.

SHOULD NOT

It
(e.g., using proactive content negotiation; see

[HTTP], Section 12.1

).

 change from occurrence to occurrence of the problem, except for localization

The "title" string is advisory and is included only for users who are unaware of and cannot
discover the semantics of the type URI (e.g., during offline log analysis).

3.1.4.  "detail"

The "detail" member is a JSON string containing a human-readable explanation specific to this
occurrence of the problem.

The "detail" string, if present, ought to focus on helping the client correct the problem, rather
than giving debugging information.

Consumers
suitable and less error-prone ways to obtain such information.

SHOULD NOT

 parse the "detail" member for information; extensions are more

3.1.5.  "instance"

The "instance" member is a JSON string containing a URI reference that identifies the specific
occurrence of the problem.

When the "instance" URI is dereferenceable, the problem details object can be fetched from it. It
might also return information about the problem occurrence in other formats through use of
proactive content negotiation (see

[HTTP], Section 12.5.1

).

When the "instance" URI is not dereferenceable, it serves as a unique identifier for the problem
occurrence that may be of significance to the server but is opaque to the client.

When "instance" contains a relative URI, it is resolved relative to the document's base URI, as per
[URI], Section 5
handled correctly by all implementations.

. However, using relative URIs can cause confusion, and they might not be

For example, if the two resources "https://api.example.org/foo/bar/123" and "https://
api.example.org/widget/456" both respond with an "instance" equal to the relative URI reference
"example-instance", when resolved they will identify different resources ("https://
api.example.org/foo/bar/example-instance" and "https://api.example.org/widget/example-
instance", respectively). As a result, it is
 that absolute URIs be used in "instance"
RECOMMENDED
when possible, and that when relative URIs are used, they include the full path (e.g., "/instances/
123").

Nottingham, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9457

Problem Details for HTTP APIs

July 2023

3.2.  Extension Members

Problem type definitions
are specific to that problem type.

MAY

 extend the problem details object with additional members that

For example, our out-of-credit problem above defines two such extensions -- "balance" and
"accounts" to convey additional, problem-specific information.

Similarly, the "validation error" example defines an "errors" extension that contains a list of
individual error occurrences found, with details and a pointer to the location of each.

Clients consuming problem details
this allows problem types to evolve and include additional information in the future.

 ignore any such extensions that they don't recognize;

MUST

When creating extensions, problem type authors should choose their names carefully. To be used
Section 2.3 of
in the XML format (see Appendix B), they will need to conform to the Name rule in
[XML]
.

4.  Defining New Problem Types

When an HTTP API needs to define a response that indicates an error condition, it might be
appropriate to do so by defining a new problem type.

Before doing so, it's important to understand what they are good for and what is better left to
other mechanisms.

Problem details are not a debugging tool for the underlying implementation; rather, they are a
way to expose greater detail about the HTTP interface itself. Designers of new problem types
need to carefully take into account the
of exposing attack vectors by exposing implementation internals through error messages.

Security Considerations (Section 5)

, in particular, the risk

Likewise, truly generic problems -- i.e., conditions that might apply to any resource on the Web --
are usually better expressed as plain status codes. For example, a "write access disallowed"
problem is probably unnecessary, since a 403 Forbidden status code in response to a PUT request
is self-explanatory.

Finally, an application might have a more appropriate way to carry an error in a format that it
already defines. Problem details are intended to avoid the necessity of establishing new "fault" or
"error" document formats, not to replace existing domain-specific formats.

That said, it is possible to add support for problem details to existing HTTP APIs using HTTP
content negotiation (e.g., using the Accept request header to indicate a preference for this format;
see

[HTTP], Section 12.5.1

).

New problem type definitions

MUST

 document:

1.

a type URI (typically, with the "http" or "https" scheme)

Nottingham, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9457

Problem Details for HTTP APIs

July 2023

2.

a title that appropriately describes it (think short)

3.

the HTTP status code for it to be used with

Problem type definitions
10.2.3

) in appropriate circumstances.

MAY

 specify the use of the Retry-After response header (

[HTTP], Section

A problem type URI
resolve the problem.

SHOULD

 resolve to HTML

[HTML5]

 documentation that explains how to

A problem type definition
example, an extension might use typed links
can use to resolve the problem.

MAY

 specify additional members on the problem details object. For

[WEB-LINKING]

 to another resource that machines

SHOULD
 comprise characters from ALPHA, DIGIT (
), and "_" (so that it can be serialized in formats other than JSON), and they

If such additional members are defined, their names
[ABNF], Appendix B.1
B.1
characters or longer.

 start with a letter (ALPHA, as per
[ABNF], Appendix
 be three
SHOULD

SHOULD

) and

4.1.  Example

For example, if you are publishing an HTTP API to your online shopping cart, you might need to
indicate that the user is out of credit (our example from above) and therefore cannot make the
purchase.

If you already have an application-specific format that can accommodate this information, it's
probably best to do that. However, if you don't, you might use one of the problem detail formats
-- JSON if your API is JSON-based or XML if it uses that format.

To do so, you might look in the registry (Section 4.2) for an already-defined type URI that suits
your purposes. If one is available, you can reuse that URI.

If one isn't available, you could mint and document a new type URI (which ought to be under
your control and stable over time), an appropriate title and the HTTP status code that it will be
used with, along with what it means and how it should be handled.

4.2.  Registered Problem Types

This specification defines the "HTTP Problem Types" registry for common, widely used problem
type URIs, to promote reuse.

The policy for this registry is Specification Required, per

[RFC8126], Section 4.6
.

When evaluating requests, the designated expert(s) should consider community feedback, how
well-defined the problem type is, and this specification's requirements. Vendor-specific,
application-specific, and deployment-specific values are unable to be registered. Specification
documents should be published in a stable, freely available manner (ideally located with a URL)
but need not be standards.

Nottingham, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9457

Problem Details for HTTP APIs

July 2023

Registrations
URI. Note that those URIs may not be able to be resolved.

 use the prefix "

MAY

https://iana.org/assignments/http-problem-types#

" for the type

The following template should be used for registration requests:

[a short description of the problem type]

[a URI for the problem type]

Type URI:
Title:
Recommended HTTP status code:
Reference:

[to a specification defining the type]

[what status code is most appropriate to use with the type]

See the registry at
registration requests.

<https://iana.org/assignments/http-problem-types>

 for details on where to send

4.2.1.  about:blank

This specification registers one Problem Type, "about:blank", as follows.

about:blank
See HTTP Status Code

Type URI:
Title:
Recommended HTTP status code:
RFC 9457
Reference:

N/A

The "about:blank" URI
additional semantics beyond that of the HTTP status code.

[ABOUT]

, when used as a problem type, indicates that the problem has no

When "about:blank" is used, the title
phrase for that code (e.g., "Not Found" for 404, and so on), although it
client preferences (expressed with the Accept-Language request header).

SHOULD

MAY

 be the same as the recommended HTTP status

 be localized to suit

Please note that according to how the "type" member is defined (Section 3.1), the "about:blank"
URI is the default value for that member. Consequently, any problem details object not carrying
an explicit "type" member implicitly uses this URI.

5.  Security Considerations

When defining a new problem type, the information included must be carefully vetted. Likewise,
when actually generating a problem -- however it is serialized -- the details given must also be
scrutinized.

Risks include leaking information that can be exploited to compromise the system, access to the
system, or the privacy of users of the system.

Generators providing links to occurrence information are encouraged to avoid making
implementation details such as a stack dump available through the HTTP interface, since this can
expose sensitive details of the server implementation, its data, and so on.

Nottingham, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9457

Problem Details for HTTP APIs

July 2023

The "status" member duplicates the information available in the HTTP status code itself, bringing
the possibility of disagreement between the two. Their relative precedence is not clear, since a
disagreement might indicate that (for example) an intermediary has changed the HTTP status
code in transit (e.g., by a proxy or cache). Generic HTTP software (such as proxies, load
balancers, firewalls, and virus scanners) are unlikely to know of or respect the status code
conveyed in this member.

6.  IANA Considerations

In the "application" registry under the "Media Types" registry, IANA has updated the "application/
problem+json" and "application/problem+xml" registrations to refer to this document.

IANA has created the "HTTP Problem Types" registry as specified in Section 4.2 and populated it
with "about:blank" as per Section 4.2.1.

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[ABNF]

[HTTP]

[JSON]

[RFC2119]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

[URI]

Crocker, D., Ed.
 and
ABNF" STD 68 RFC 5234 DOI 10.17487/RFC5234
,
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5234>

,

,

.

P. Overell "Augmented BNF for Syntax Specifications:

, January 2008,

<https://

,

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
97 RFC 9110 DOI 10.17487/RFC9110
rfc9110>

,

,

.

, and
, June 2022,

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP Semantics" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

,

Bray, T., Ed. "The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data Interchange Format"
STD 90 RFC 8259 DOI 10.17487/RFC8259
editor.org/info/rfc8259>

, December 2017,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

.

,

,

, June

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Berners-Lee, T. Fielding, R.
, and
Generic Syntax" STD 66 RFC 3986 DOI 10.17487/RFC3986
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3986>

,

,

,

.

L. Masinter "Uniform Resource Identifier (URI):

,

, January 2005,

Nottingham, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9457

Problem Details for HTTP APIs

July 2023

[XML]

,

,

Bray, T. Paoli, J. Sperberg-McQueen, C. M. Maler, E.
Markup Language (XML) 1.0 (Fifth Edition)" W3C Recommendation REC-
xml-20081126
xml-20081126/>

<https://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-

, November 2008,

, and

,

,

.

F. Yergeau "Extensible
,

7.2.  Informative References

[ABOUT]

[HTML5]

[ISO-19757-2]

Moonesamy, S., Ed. "The "about" URI Scheme" RFC 6694 DOI 10.17487/RFC6694
,
August 2012,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6694>

,

,

,

.

WHATWG "HTML: Living Standard" <https://html.spec.whatwg.org>

,

,

.

,

ISO "Information technology -- Document Schema Definition Language (DSDL) --
Part 2: Regular-grammar-based validation -- RELAX NG" ISO/IEC 19757-2:2008
<https://www.iso.org/standard/52348.html>
December 2008,

.

,

,

[JSON-POINTER]

Bryan, P., Ed. Zyp, K.

,
(JSON) Pointer" RFC 6901 DOI 10.17487/RFC6901
, April 2013,
editor.org/info/rfc6901>
.

, and
,

,
,

M. Nottingham, Ed. "JavaScript Object Notation

<https://www.rfc-

[JSON-SCHEMA]

Wright, A., Ed. Andrews, H., Ed. Hutton, B., Ed.

,

,

A Media Type for Describing JSON Documents" Work in Progress Internet-
Draft, draft-bhutton-json-schema-01
doc/html/draft-bhutton-json-schema-01>

, 10 June 2022,

,

.

, and

G. Dennis "JSON Schema:

,
,
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/

[RDFA]

[RFC7807]

[TAG]

,
,

Adida, B. Birbeck, M. McCarron, S.
Edition" W3C Recommendation
rdfa-core-20150317/>

,

.

, and

I. Herman "RDFa Core 1.1 - Third

,

, March 2015,

<https://www.w3.org/TR/2015/REC-

Nottingham, M.
10.17487/RFC7807

E. Wilde "Problem Details for HTTP APIs" RFC 7807 DOI

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7807>
.

, March 2016,

,

,

 and

Kindberg, T.
RFC4151

 and

S. Hawke "The 'tag' URI Scheme" RFC 4151 DOI 10.17487/

,

,

,

, October 2005,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4151>

.

[WEB-LINKING]

Nottingham, M. "Web Linking" RFC 8288 DOI 10.17487/RFC8288
,

,

,

, October

2017,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8288>

.

[XSLT]

Clark, J. Pieters, S.
,
documents 1.0 (Second Edition)" W3C Recommendation
www.w3.org/TR/2010/REC-xml-stylesheet-20101028/>

, and

,

,

.

H. Thompson "Associating Style Sheets with XML

, October 2010,

<https://

Appendix A.  JSON Schema for HTTP Problems

This section presents a non-normative JSON Schema
there is any disagreement between it and the text of the specification, the latter prevails.

[JSON-SCHEMA]

 for HTTP problem details. If

Nottingham, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9457

Problem Details for HTTP APIs

July 2023

# NOTE: '\' line wrapping per RFC 8792
{
  "$schema": "https://json-schema.org/draft/2020-12/schema",
  "title": "An RFC 7807 problem object",
  "type": "object",
  "properties": {
    "type": {
      "type": "string",
      "format": "uri-reference",
      "description": "A URI reference that identifies the \
problem type."
    },
    "title": {
      "type": "string",
      "description": "A short, human-readable summary of the \
problem type."
    },
    "status": {
      "type": "integer",
      "description": "The HTTP status code \
generated by the origin server for this occurrence of the problem.",
      "minimum": 100,
      "maximum": 599
    },
    "detail": {
      "type": "string",
      "description": "A human-readable explanation specific to \
this occurrence of the problem."
    },
    "instance": {
      "type": "string",
      "format": "uri-reference",
      "description": "A URI reference that identifies the \
specific occurrence of the problem. It may or may not yield \
further information if dereferenced."
    }
  }
}

Appendix B.  HTTP Problems and XML

HTTP-based APIs that use XML
this appendix.

[XML]

 can express problem details using the format defined in

The RELAX NG schema

[ISO-19757-2]

 for the XML format is:

Nottingham, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9457

Problem Details for HTTP APIs

July 2023

   default namespace ns = "urn:ietf:rfc:7807"

   start = problem

   problem =
     element problem {
       (  element  type            { xsd:anyURI }?
        & element  title           { xsd:string }?
        & element  detail          { xsd:string }?
        & element  status          { xsd:positiveInteger }?
        & element  instance        { xsd:anyURI }? ),
       anyNsElement
     }

   anyNsElement =
     (  element    ns:*  { anyNsElement | text }
      | attribute  *     { text })*

Note that this schema is only intended as documentation and not as a normative schema that
captures all constraints of the XML format. It is possible to use other XML schema languages to
define a similar set of constraints (depending on the features of the chosen schema language).

The media type for this format is "application/problem+xml".

Extension arrays and objects are serialized into the XML format by considering an element
containing a child or children to represent an object, except for elements containing only one or
more child elements named "i", which are considered arrays. For example, the example above
appears in XML as follows:

HTTP/1.1 403 Forbidden
Content-Type: application/problem+xml
Content-Language: en

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<problem xmlns="urn:ietf:rfc:7807">
  <type>https://example.com/probs/out-of-credit</type>
  <title>You do not have enough credit.</title>
  <detail>Your current balance is 30, but that costs 50.</detail>
  <instance>https://example.net/account/12345/msgs/abc</instance>
  <balance>30</balance>
  <accounts>
    <i>https://example.net/account/12345</i>
    <i>https://example.net/account/67890</i>
  </accounts>
</problem>

This format uses an XML namespace, primarily to allow embedding it into other XML-based
formats; it does not imply that it can or should be extended with elements or attributes in other
namespaces. The RELAX NG schema explicitly only allows elements from the one namespace
used in the XML format. Any extension arrays and objects
using only that namespace.

 be serialized into XML markup

MUST

Nottingham, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9457

Problem Details for HTTP APIs

July 2023

[XSLT]

When using the XML format, it is possible to embed an XML processing instruction in the XML
that instructs clients to transform the XML, using the referenced XSL Transformations (XSLT)
code
. If this code is transforming the XML into (X)HTML, then it is possible to serve the
XML format, and yet have clients capable of performing the transformation display human-
friendly (X)HTML that is rendered and displayed at the client. Note that when using this method,
it is advisable to use XSLT 1.0 in order to maximize the number of clients capable of executing
the XSLT code.

Appendix C.  Using Problem Details with Other Formats

In some situations, it can be advantageous to embed problem details in formats other than those
described here. For example, an API that uses HTML
expressing its problem details.

 might want to also use HTML for

[HTML5]

Problem details can be embedded in other formats either by encapsulating one of the existing
serializations (JSON or XML) into that format or by translating the model of a problem detail (as
specified in Section 3) into the format's conventions.

For example, in HTML, a problem could be embedded by encapsulating JSON in a script tag:

<script type="application/problem+json">
  {
   "type": "https://example.com/probs/out-of-credit",
   "title": "You do not have enough credit.",
   "detail": "Your current balance is 30, but that costs 50.",
   "instance": "/account/12345/msgs/abc",
   "balance": 30,
   "accounts": ["/account/12345",
                "/account/67890"]
  }
</script>

or by defining a mapping into a Resource Description Framework in Attributes (RDFa)

[RDFA]
.

This specification does not make specific recommendations regarding embedding problem
details in other formats; the appropriate way to embed them depends both upon the format in
use and application of that format.

Appendix D.  Changes from RFC 7807

This revision has made the following changes:

•

Section 4.2 introduces a registry of common problem type URIs

•

Section 3 clarifies how multiple problems should be treated

•

Section 3.1.1 provides guidance for using type URIs that cannot be dereferenced

Nottingham, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9457

Problem Details for HTTP APIs

July 2023

Acknowledgements

The authors would like to thank
Fielding Eran Hammer Sam Johnston Mike McCall Julian Reschke
comments and suggestions.

,

,

,

,

,
, and

Jan Algermissen Subbu Allamaraju Mike Amundsen Roy

,

,

James Snell

 for their

Authors' Addresses

Mark Nottingham
Prahran
Australia
Email:
URI:

 mnot@mnot.net
 https://www.mnot.net/

Erik Wilde
Email:
URI:

 erik.wilde@dret.net
 http://dret.net/netdret/

Sanjay Dalal
United States of America
Email:
URI:

 sanjay.dalal@cal.berkeley.edu

 https://github.com/sdatspun2

Nottingham, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

