Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9353
5088, 5089, 8231, 8306
Standards Track
January 2023
2070-1721
D. Lopez
Telefonica I+D

D. Dhody
Huawei

Q. Wu
Huawei

Q. Ma
Huawei

D. King
Old Dog Consulting

RFC 9353
IGP Extension for Path Computation Element
Communication Protocol (PCEP) Security Capability
Support in PCE Discovery (PCED)

Abstract

When a Path Computation Element (PCE) is a Label Switching Router (LSR) or a server
participating in the Interior Gateway Protocol (IGP), its presence and path computation
capabilities can be advertised using IGP flooding. The IGP extensions for PCE Discovery (PCED)
(RFCs 5088 and 5089) define a method to advertise path computation capabilities using IGP
flooding for OSPF and IS-IS, respectively. However, these specifications lack a method to
advertise Path Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) security (e.g., Transport
Layer Security (TLS) and TCP Authentication Option (TCP-AO)) support capability.

This document defines capability flag bits for the PCE-CAP-FLAGS sub-TLV that can be announced
as an attribute in the IGP advertisement to distribute PCEP security support information. In
addition, this document updates RFCs 5088 and 5089 to allow advertisement of a Key ID or KEY-
CHAIN-NAME sub-TLV to support TCP-AO security capability. This document also updates RFCs
8231 and 8306.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9353
.

Lopez, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9353

IGP Extension: PCEP Security in PCED

January 2023

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in effect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Conventions Used in This Document

3.  IGP Extension for PCEP Security Capability Support

3.1.  Use of PCEP Security Capability Support for PCED

3.2.  KEY-ID Sub-TLV

3.2.1.  IS-IS

3.2.2.  OSPF

3.3.  KEY-CHAIN-NAME Sub-TLV

3.3.1.  IS-IS

3.3.2.  OSPF

4.  Updates to RFCs

5.  Backward Compatibility Considerations

6.  Management Considerations

6.1.  Control of Policy and Functions

6.2.  Information and Data Model

6.3.  Liveness Detection and Monitoring

6.4.  Verification of Correct Operations

6.5.  Requirements on Other Protocols and Functional Components

6.6.  Impact on Network Operations

7.  Security Considerations

Lopez, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9353

IGP Extension: PCEP Security in PCED

January 2023

8.  IANA Considerations

8.1.  PCE Capability Flags

8.2.  PCED Sub-TLV Type Indicators

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

[RFC5440]

, privacy and integrity are important issues for communication using

As described in
the Path Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP); an attacker that intercepts a
PCEP message could obtain sensitive information related to computed paths and resources.
Authentication and integrity checks allow the receiver of a PCEP message to know that the
message genuinely comes from the node that purports to have sent it and whether the message
has been modified.

Among the possible solutions mentioned in
provides support for peer authentication, message encryption, and integrity while TCP-AO)
[RFC5925]
 offer significantly improved
security for applications using TCP. As specified in
whether the PCE server supports TLS or TCP-AO as a secure transport in order for a Path
Computation Client (PCC) to establish a connection with a PCE server using TLS or TCP-AO.

 and Cryptographic Algorithms for TCP-AO

, Transport Layer Security (TLS)

Section 4 of [RFC8253]

[RFC5926]

[RFC5440]

, the PCC needs to know

[RFC8446]

 and

[RFC5089]

[RFC5088]
flooding for OSPF and IS-IS, respectively. However, these specifications lack a method to
advertise PCEP security (e.g., TLS and TCP-AO) support capability.

 define a method to advertise path computation capabilities using IGP

This document defines capability flag bits for the PCE-CAP-FLAGS sub-TLV that can be announced
as attributes in the IGP advertisement to distribute PCEP security support information. In
 and
addition, this document updates
KEY-CHAIN-NAME sub-TLV to support TCP-AO security capability.

 to allow advertisement of a KeyID or

[RFC5089]

[RFC5088]

IANA created a top-level registry titled "Path Computation Element (PCE) Capability Flags" per
[RFC5088]
[RFC5088]
. This document updates
Gateway Protocol (IGP) Parameters" registry.
TLV uses the same registry as OSPF. This document updates
registry. Further, this document updates
the "Open Shortest Path First v2 (OSPFv2) Parameters" registry to the "Interior Gateway Protocol

 and moves it to follow the heading of the "Interior
[RFC5089]
 states that the IS-IS PCE-CAP-FLAGS sub-

 where it references the registry location as

 to refer to the new IGP

[RFC5089]

[RFC8231]

Lopez, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9353

IGP Extension: PCEP Security in PCED

January 2023

 by changing the term "OSPF
(IGP) Parameters" registry. This document also updates
PCE Capability Flag" to read as "Path Computation Element (PCE) Capability Flags" and to note
the corresponding registry now exists in the "Interior Gateway Protocol (IGP) Parameters"
registry.

[RFC8306]

Note that
whereas
Parameters".

[RFC5557]
[RFC8623]

 uses the term "OSPF registry" instead of the "IGP registry",
 and

 use the term "OSPF Parameters" instead of "IGP

[RFC9168]

Note that the PCEP Open message exchange is another way to discover PCE
capabilities information; however, in this instance, the TCP-security-related key
parameters need to be known before the PCEP session is established and the PCEP
Open messages are exchanged. Thus, the IGP advertisement and flooding
mechanisms need to be leveraged for PCE discovery and capabilities advertisement.

2.  Conventions Used in This Document

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  IGP Extension for PCEP Security Capability Support

 defines a PCE Discovery (PCED) TLV carried in an OSPF Router Information Link State

[RFC5088]
Advertisement (LSA) as defined in
defines two capability flag bits in the OSPF PCE Capability Flags to indicate TCP-AO support
[RFC5925] [RFC5926]

 to facilitate PCED using OSPF. This document

 and PCEP over TLS support

, respectively.

[RFC8253]

[RFC7770]

[RFC5089]

Similarly,
use the same flag for the OSPF PCE Capability Flags sub-TLV to allow IS-IS to indicate TCP-AO
support and PCEP over TLS support, respectively.

 defines the PCED sub-TLV for use in PCED using IS-IS. This document will

The IANA assignments for shared OSPF and IS-IS Security Capability Flags are documented in
Section 8.1 of this document.

3.1.  Use of PCEP Security Capability Support for PCED

TCP-AO and PCEP over TLS support flag bits are advertised using IGP flooding.

•

PCE supports TCP-AO: IGP advertisement

SHOULD

 include a TCP-AO support flag bit.

•

PCE supports TLS: IGP advertisement

SHOULD

 include PCEP over TLS support flag bit.

If the PCE supports multiple security mechanisms, it
in its IGP advertisement.

SHOULD

 include all corresponding flag bits

Lopez, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9353

IGP Extension: PCEP Security in PCED

January 2023

MAY

 indicate that support for a given security capability is required. If a

A client's configuration
client is configured to require that its PCE server supports TCP-AO, the client
TCP-AO flag bit in the PCE-CAP-FLAGS sub-TLV for a given server is set before it opens a
connection to that server. Similarly, if the client is configured to require that its PCE server
 verify that the PCEP over TLS support flag bit in the PCE-CAP-
supports TLS, the client
FLAGS sub-TLV for a given server is set before it opens a connection to that server.

 verify that the

MUST

MUST

3.2.  KEY-ID Sub-TLV

The KEY-ID sub-TLV specifies an identifier that can be used by the PCC to identify the TCP-AO key
(referred to as "KeyID" in

[RFC5925]

).

3.2.1.  IS-IS

The KEY-ID sub-TLV
CAPABILITY TLV when the capability flag bit of the PCE-CAP-FLAGS sub-TLV in IS-IS is set to
indicate TCP-AO support.

 be present in the PCED sub-TLV carried within the IS-IS Router

MAY

The KEY-ID sub-TLV has the following format:

Type:

6

Length:

1

KeyID:

The one-octet KeyID as per

[RFC5925]

 to uniquely identify the Master Key Tuple (MKT).

3.2.2.  OSPF

Similarly, this sub-TLV
Information LSA when the capability flag bit of the PCE-CAP-FLAGS sub-TLV in OSPF is set to
indicate TCP-AO support.

 be present in the PCED TLV carried within the OSPF Router

MAY

The format of the KEY-ID sub-TLV is as follows:

                     1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|              Type = 6         |             Length            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|    KeyID      |                 Reserved                      |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Type:

6

Length:

4

KeyID:

The one octet KeyID as per

[RFC5925]

 to uniquely identify the MKT.

Reserved:

MUST

 be set to zero while sending and ignored on receipt.

Lopez, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9353

IGP Extension: PCEP Security in PCED

January 2023

3.3.  KEY-CHAIN-NAME Sub-TLV

The KEY-CHAIN-NAME sub-TLV specifies a key chain name that can be used by the PCC to
identify the key chain. The key chain name could be manually configured via command-line
interface (CLI) or installed in the YANG datastore (see

) at the PCC.

[RFC8177]

3.3.1.  IS-IS

The KEY-CHAIN-NAME sub-TLV
Router CAPABILITY TLV when the capability flag bit of the PCE-CAP-FLAGS sub-TLV in IS-IS is set
to indicate TCP-AO support.

 be present in the PCED sub-TLV carried within the IS-IS

MAY

The KEY-CHAIN-NAME sub-TLV has the following format:

Type:

7

Length:

Variable, encodes the length of the value field.

Key Chain Name:

The Key Chain Name contains a string of 1 to 255 octets to be used to identify
 interpret invalid
MUST

the key chain. It
UTF-8 sequences and ignore them. This field is not NULL terminated. UTF-8 "Shortest Form"
 to guard against the technical issues outlined in
encoding is

 be encoded using UTF-8. A receiving entity

REQUIRED

MUST NOT

[UTR36]

.

3.3.2.  OSPF

MAY

Similarly, this sub-TLV
Information LSA when the capability flag bit of the PCE-CAP-FLAGS sub-TLV in OSPF is set to
indicate TCP-AO support. The sub-TLV
aligned.

 be present in the PCED TLV carried within the OSPF Router

 be zero-padded so that the sub-TLV is 4-octet

MUST

The format of KEY-CHAIN-NAME sub-TLV is as follows:

                     1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|              Type = 7         |             Length            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                                                               |
//                     Key Chain Name                          //
|                                                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Type:

7

Length:

Variable, padding is not included in the Length field.

Lopez, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9353

IGP Extension: PCEP Security in PCED

January 2023

Key Chain Name: The Key Chain Name contains a string of 1 to 255 octets to be used to identify
 interpret invalid
 be encoded using UTF-8. A receiving entity

the key chain. It
UTF-8 sequences and ignore them. This field is not NULL terminated. UTF-8 "Shortest Form"
encoding is
 to guard against the technical issues outlined in
MUST

 be zero-padded so that the sub-TLV is 4-octet aligned.

. The sub-TLV

REQUIRED

MUST NOT

[UTR36]

MUST

4.  Updates to RFCs

 states that no new sub-TLVs will be added to the PCED TLV and no new

Section 4 of [RFC5088]
PCE information will be carried in the Router Information LSA. This document updates
[RFC5088]
advertised in the Router Information LSA.

 by allowing the two sub-TLVs defined in this document to be carried in the PCED TLV

 states that no new sub-TLVs will be added to the PCED TLV and no new

Section 4 of [RFC5089]
PCE information will be carried in the Router CAPABILITY TLV. This document updates
[RFC5089]
advertised in the Router CAPABILITY TLV.

 by allowing the two sub-TLVs defined in this document to be carried in the PCED TLV

 and

[RFC5089]

This introduction of additional sub-TLVs should be viewed as an exception to the policies in
[RFC5088]
, which is justified by the requirement to discover the PCEP security
support prior to establishing a PCEP session. The restrictions defined in
should still be considered to be in place. If new advertisements are required in the future,
alternative mechanisms such as using
considered.

[LSR-OSPF-TRANSPORT-INSTANCE]

[RFC5088]

[RFC6823]

 and

 or

[RFC5089]

 should be

The registry for the PCE Capability Flags assigned in
[RFC8231] Section 6.9 of [RFC8306] Section 11.1 of [RFC8623]
changed to the IGP Parameters "Path Computation Element (PCE) Capability Flags" registry
created in this document.

Section 8.3 of [RFC5557] Section 8.1 of

Section 10.5 of [RFC9168]

, and

,

,

,

 has

5.  Backward Compatibility Considerations

An LSR that does not support the IGP PCE capability bits specified in this document silently
ignores those bits.

An LSR that does not support the KEY-ID and KEY-CHAIN-NAME sub-TLVs specified in this
document silently ignores those sub-TLVs.

IGP extensions defined in this document do not introduce any new interoperability issues.

6.  Management Considerations

Manageability considerations for PCED are addressed in
[RFC5088]

Section 9 of [RFC5089]
.

, and

Section 4.10 of [RFC4674] Section 9 of

,

Lopez, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9353

IGP Extension: PCEP Security in PCED

January 2023

6.1.  Control of Policy and Functions

A PCE implementation

SHOULD

 allow the following parameters to be configured on the PCE:

•

support for TCP-AO

•

the KeyID used by TCP-AO

•

Key Chain Name

•

support for TLS

6.2.  Information and Data Model

The YANG module for PCEP
and TLS).

[PCE-PCEP-YANG]

 supports PCEP security parameters (key, key chain,

6.3.  Liveness Detection and Monitoring

Normal operations of the IGP meet the requirements for liveness detection and monitoring.

6.4.  Verification of Correct Operations

The correlation of PCEP security information advertised against information received can be
achieved by comparing the information in the PCED sub-TLV received by the PCC with that
stored at the PCE using the PCEP YANG.

6.5.  Requirements on Other Protocols and Functional Components

There are no new requirements on other protocols.

6.6.  Impact on Network Operations

Frequent changes in PCEP security information advertised in the PCED sub-TLV may have a
significant impact on IGP and might destabilize the operation of the network by causing the PCCs
to reconnect sessions with PCEs.
Section
9.6 of [RFC5089]

 list techniques that are applicable to this document as well.

Section 4.10.4 of [RFC4674] Section 9.6 of [RFC5088]

, and

,

7.  Security Considerations

Security considerations as specified by

[RFC5088]

 and

[RFC5089]

 are applicable to this document.

, a PCEP speaker

Section 10.2 of [RFC5440]

As described in
no capability advertisement is needed to indicate support. However, as noted in
[RFC5925]
MD5 has been obsoleted by TCP-AO
implemented; therefore, it is
RECOMMENDED
). An implementation
(which updates
capabilities defined in this document.

[RFC5440]

SHOULD

 support TCP MD5

MUST

 because of security concerns. TCP-AO is not widely
 that PCEP be secured using TLS per

[RFC8253]

 offer at least one of the two security

, so
, TCP

[RFC6952]

[RFC2385]

Lopez, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9353

IGP Extension: PCEP Security in PCED

January 2023

The information related to PCEP security is sensitive and due care needs to be taken by the
operator. This document defines new capability bits that are susceptible to a downgrade attack
by setting them to zero. The content of the Key-ID or KEY-CHAIN-NAME sub-TLV can be altered to
enable an on-path attack. Thus, before advertising the PCEP security parameters by using the
mechanism described in this document, the IGP
integrity for the PCED TLV using the mechanisms defined in

 be known to provide authentication and
[RFC5709]
.

[RFC5304] [RFC5310]
,

MUST

, or

Moreover, as stated in the security considerations of
, there are no
mechanisms defined in OSPF or IS-IS to protect the confidentiality of the PCED TLV. For this
reason, the operator must ensure that no private data is carried in the TLV. For example, the
operator must ensure that KeyIDs or key chain names do not reveal sensitive information about
the network.

[RFC5088]

[RFC5089]

 and

8.  IANA Considerations

8.1.  PCE Capability Flags

IANA has moved the "Path Computation Element (PCE) Capability Flags" registry from the "Open
Shortest Path First v2 (OSPFv2) Parameters" grouping to the "Interior Gateway Protocol (IGP)
Parameters" grouping.

IANA has made the following additional assignments from the "Path Computation Element (PCE)
Capability Flags" registry:

Bit

Capability Description

Reference

17

18

TCP-AO Support

RFC 9353

PCEP over TLS support

RFC 9353

Table 1: Path Computation Element (PCE)
Capability Flags Registrations

The grouping is located at:

<https://www.iana.org/assignments/igp-parameters/>
.

8.2.  PCED Sub-TLV Type Indicators

The PCED sub-TLVs are defined in
 and
was not created. IANA has created a new registry called "PCE Discovery (PCED) Sub-TLV Type
Indicators" under the "Interior Gateway Protocol (IGP) Parameters" registry. The registration
policy for this registry is "Standards Action"
. Values in this registry come from the
range 0-65535.

, but a corresponding IANA registry

[RFC8126]

[RFC5089]

[RFC5088]

This registry is initially populated as follows:

Lopez, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9353

IGP Extension: PCEP Security in PCED

January 2023

Value Description

Reference

0

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

Reserved

RFC 9353, RFC 5088

PCE-ADDRESS

RFC 9353, RFC 5088

PATH-SCOPE

RFC 9353, RFC 5088

PCE-DOMAIN

RFC 9353, RFC 5088

NEIG-PCE-DOMAIN RFC 9353, RFC 5088

PCE-CAP-FLAGS

RFC 9353, RFC 5088

KEY-ID

RFC 9353

KEY-CHAIN-NAME

RFC 9353

Table 2: Initial Contents of the PCED Sub-TLV Type
Indicators Registry

This registry is used by both the OSPF PCED TLV and the IS-IS PCED sub-TLV.

This grouping is located at:

<https://www.iana.org/assignments/igp-parameters/>
.

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC5088]

[RFC5089]

[RFC5304]

[RFC5310]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Le Roux, JL., Ed. Vasseur, JP., Ed. Ikejiri, Y.
Extensions for Path Computation Element (PCE) Discovery" RFC 5088 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5088>
10.17487/RFC5088

R. Zhang "OSPF Protocol
,

, January 2008,

, and

,

,

,

.

,

Le Roux, JL., Ed. Vasseur, JP., Ed. Ikejiri, Y.
Extensions for Path Computation Element (PCE) Discovery" RFC 5089 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5089>
10.17487/RFC5089

R. Zhang "IS-IS Protocol
,

, January 2008,

, and

,

,

,

.

 and

Li, T.
10.17487/RFC5304

R. Atkinson "IS-IS Cryptographic Authentication" RFC 5304 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5304>

, October 2008,

,

,

,

.

,

Bhatia, M. Manral, V. Li, T. Atkinson, R. White, R.
,
Cryptographic Authentication" RFC 5310 DOI 10.17487/RFC5310
,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5310>
.

, and

,

,

M. Fanto "IS-IS Generic

,
, February 2009,

Lopez, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9353

IGP Extension: PCEP Security in PCED

January 2023

[RFC5557]

[RFC5709]

[RFC5925]

[RFC7770]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8177]

[RFC8231]

[RFC8253]

[RFC8306]

[RFC8623]

[RFC9168]

,

,

Lee, Y. Le Roux, JL. King, D.
Communication Protocol (PCEP) Requirements and Protocol Extensions in
Support of Global Concurrent Optimization" RFC 5557 DOI 10.17487/RFC5557
July 2009,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5557>

E. Oki "Path Computation Element

, and

,

,

,

.

,

,

Bhatia, M. Manral, V. Fanto, M. White, R. Barnes, M. Li, T.
R. Atkinson
,
"OSPFv2 HMAC-SHA Cryptographic Authentication" RFC 5709 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5709

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5709>

, October 2009,

, and
,

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

Touch, J. Mankin, A.
DOI 10.17487/RFC5925

, and

R. Bonica "The TCP Authentication Option" RFC 5925

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5925>

, June 2010,

,

.

,

,

Lindem, A., Ed. Shen, N. Vasseur, JP. Aggarwal, R.
,
,
OSPF for Advertising Optional Router Capabilities" RFC 7770 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7770

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7770>

, February 2016,

, and
,

S. Shaffer "Extensions to

,

,

.

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

, June

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Lindem, A., Ed. Qu, Y. Yeung, D. Chen, I.
,
, and
Key Chains" RFC 8177 DOI 10.17487/RFC8177
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc8177>

,

.

,

J. Zhang "YANG Data Model for
, June 2017,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Crabbe, E. Minei, I. Medved, J.
Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for Stateful PCE" RFC 8231 DOI
10.17487/RFC8231

R. Varga "Path Computation Element

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8231>

, September 2017,

, and

,

,

,

,

.

,

Lopez, D. Gonzalez de Dios, O. Wu, Q.
Provide a Secure Transport for the Path Computation Element Communication
Protocol (PCEP)" RFC 8253 DOI 10.17487/RFC8253
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8253>

D. Dhody "PCEPS: Usage of TLS to

, October 2017,

<https://

, and

,

,

,

.

,

,

Zhao, Q. Dhody, D., Ed. Palleti, R.
Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) for Point-to-Multipoint
Traffic Engineering Label Switched Paths" RFC 8306 DOI 10.17487/RFC8306
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8306>
November 2017,

D. King "Extensions to the Path

, and

,

,

,

.

,

,

Palle, U. Dhody, D. Tanaka, Y.
Element (PCE) Protocol Extensions for Usage with Point-to-Multipoint TE Label
Switched Paths (LSPs)" RFC 8623 DOI 10.17487/RFC8623
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8623>
.

V. Beeram "Stateful Path Computation

, June 2019,

<https://

, and

,

,

Dhody, D. Farrel, A.
Z. Li "Path Computation Element Communication
,
Protocol (PCEP) Extension for Flow Specification" RFC 9168 DOI 10.17487/
,
RFC9168

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9168>

, January 2022,

, and

,

,

.

Lopez, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9353

IGP Extension: PCEP Security in PCED

January 2023

9.2.  Informative References

[LSR-OSPF-TRANSPORT-INSTANCE]

Lindem, A. Qu, Y. Roy, A.

,

,

, and

S. Mirtorabi "OSPF-GT

,

(Generalized Transport)" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-lsr-ospf-
transport-instance-04
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/
draft-ietf-lsr-ospf-transport-instance-04>

, 3 January 2023,

,

,

.

[PCE-PCEP-YANG]

Dhody, D., Ed. Beeram, V. Hardwick, J.

,

,

, and

J. Tantsura "A YANG Data Model

,

for Path Computation Element Communications Protocol (PCEP)" Work in
Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-pce-pcep-yang-20
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-pce-pcep-yang-20>

, 23 October 2022,

,

,

.

<https://

,

Heffernan, A. "Protection of BGP Sessions via the TCP MD5 Signature Option"
RFC 2385 DOI 10.17487/RFC2385
rfc2385>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, August 1998,

,
.

,

,

Le Roux, J.L., Ed. "Requirements for Path Computation Element (PCE)
Discovery" RFC 4674 DOI 10.17487/RFC4674
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc4674>

, October 2006,

.

<https://www.rfc-

 and

Vasseur, JP., Ed.
Communication Protocol (PCEP)" RFC 5440 DOI 10.17487/RFC5440
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5440>

JL. Le Roux, Ed. "Path Computation Element (PCE)

,

,

.

, March 2009,

 and

Lebovitz, G.
E. Rescorla "Cryptographic Algorithms for the TCP
Authentication Option (TCP-AO)" RFC 5926 DOI 10.17487/RFC5926
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5926>

,

,

.

, June 2010,

Ginsberg, L. Previdi, S.
,
IS" RFC 6823 DOI 10.17487/RFC6823
editor.org/info/rfc6823>

, and

,

,

.

M. Shand "Advertising Generic Information in IS-

,

, December 2012,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Jethanandani, M. Patel, K.
L. Zheng "Analysis of BGP, LDP, PCEP, and MSDP
,
Issues According to the Keying and Authentication for Routing Protocols (KARP)
Design Guide" RFC 6952 DOI 10.17487/RFC6952
,
editor.org/info/rfc6952>
.

<https://www.rfc-

, May 2013,

, and

,

Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
,
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>

, August 2018,

,

.

 and

Davis, M., Ed.
Technical Report #36
tr36/>

.

,
M. Suignard, Ed. "Unicode Security Considerations" Unicode
<https://www.unicode.org/unicode/reports/
, August 2010,

,

[RFC2385]

[RFC4674]

[RFC5440]

[RFC5926]

[RFC6823]

[RFC6952]

[RFC8446]

[UTR36]

Acknowledgments

The authors of this document would like to thank
Ketan Talaulikar Tom Petch Aijun Wang

, and

Acee Lindem Julien Meuric Les Ginsberg
 for the review and comments.

Adrian Farrel

,

,

,

,

,

Lopez, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9353

IGP Extension: PCEP Security in PCED

January 2023

The authors would also like to give special thanks to
the initial draft version.

Michale Wang

 for his major contributions to

Thanks to
Sheffer Ron Bonica

John Scudder

, and

,

 for providing an excellent AD review. Thanks to

Carlos Pignataro Yaron

,

Will (Shucheng) LIU

 for directorate reviews.

Thanks to
Kucherawy

Lars Eggert Robert Wilton Roman Danyliw Éric Vyncke Paul Wouters Murray
, and

 for IESG reviews.

Warren Kumari

,

,

,

,

,

Authors' Addresses

Diego R. Lopez
Telefonica I+D
Spain
Email:

 diego.r.lopez@telefonica.com

Qin Wu
Huawei Technologies
Yuhua District
101 Software Avenue
Nanjing
Jiangsu 210012
,
China
Email:

 bill.wu@huawei.com

Dhruv Dhody
Huawei Technologies
Divyashree Techno Park, Whitefield
Bangalore 560037
Karnataka
India
Email:

 dhruv.ietf@gmail.com

Qiufang Ma
Huawei Technologies
Yuhua District
101 Software Avenue
Nanjing
Jiangsu 210012
,
China
Email:

 maqiufang1@huawei.com

Daniel King
Old Dog Consulting
United Kingdom
Email:

 daniel@olddog.co.uk

Lopez, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

