Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9705
4090
Standards Track
March 2025
2070-1721
C. Ramachandran
Juniper Networks, Inc.

T. Saad
Cisco Systems, Inc.

D. Pacella
Verizon, Inc.

RFC 9705
Refresh-Interval Independent RSVP Fast Reroute
Facility Protection

Abstract

The RSVP-TE Fast Reroute (FRR) extensions specified in RFC 4090 define two local repair
techniques to reroute Label Switched Path (LSP) traffic over pre-established backup tunnels.
Facility backup method allows one or more LSPs traversing a connected link or node to be
protected using a bypass tunnel. The many-to-one nature of local repair technique is attractive
from a scalability point of view. This document enumerates facility backup procedures in RFC
4090 that rely on refresh timeout, hence, making facility backup method refresh-interval
dependent. The RSVP-TE extensions defined in this document will enhance the facility backup
protection mechanism by making the corresponding procedures refresh-interval independent,
and hence, compatible with the Refresh-Interval Independent RSVP (RI-RSVP) capability
specified in RFC 8370. Hence, this document updates RFC 4090 in order to support the RI-RSVP
capability specified in RFC 8370.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9705
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Ramachandran, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9705

RI-RSVP-FRR Bypass

March 2025

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

This document may contain material from IETF Documents or IETF Contributions published or
made publicly available before November 10, 2008. The person(s) controlling the copyright in
some of this material may not have granted the IETF Trust the right to allow modifications of
such material outside the IETF Standards Process. Without obtaining an adequate license from
the person(s) controlling the copyright in such materials, this document may not be modified
outside the IETF Standards Process, and derivative works of it may not be created outside the
IETF Standards Process, except to format it for publication as an RFC or to translate it into
languages other than English.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Motivation

2.  Abbreviations and Terminology

2.1.  Abbreviations

2.2.  Terminology

3.  Problem Description

4.  Solution Aspects

4.1.  Requirement for RFC 4090 Capable Nodes to Advertise the RI-RSVP Capability

4.2.  Signaling Handshake Between PLR and MP

4.2.1.  PLR Behavior

4.2.2.  Remote Signaling Adjacency

4.2.3.  MP Behavior

4.2.4.  "Remote" State on MP

4.3.  Impact of Failures on LSP State

4.3.1.  Non-MP Behavior

4.3.2.  LP-MP Behavior

4.3.3.  NP-MP Behavior

4.3.4.  Behavior of a Router That Is Both the LP-MP and NP-MP

4

4

5

5

6

6

7

8

8

8

9

10

11

11

11

12

12

13

Ramachandran, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9705

RI-RSVP-FRR Bypass

March 2025

4.4.  Conditional PathTear

4.4.1.  Sending the Conditional PathTear

4.4.2.  Processing the Conditional PathTear

4.4.3.  CONDITIONS Object

4.5.  Remote State Teardown

4.5.1.  PLR Behavior on Local Repair Failure

4.5.2.  PLR Behavior on Resv RRO Change

4.5.3.  LSP Preemption During Local Repair

4.5.3.1.  Preemption on LP-MP After PHOP Link Failure

4.5.3.2.  Preemption on NP-MP After PHOP Link Failure

4.6.  Backward Compatibility Procedures

4.6.1.  Detecting Support for Refresh-Interval Independent RSVP FRR

4.6.2.  Procedures for Backward Compatibility

4.6.2.1.  Lack of Support on Downstream Nodes

4.6.2.2.  Lack of Support on Upstream Nodes

4.6.2.3.  Incremental Deployment

4.7.  Consequences of Advertising RI-RSVP Without RI-RSVP-FRR

5.  Security Considerations

6.  IANA Considerations

6.1.  CONDITIONS Object

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

13

14

14

14

15

16

16

16

16

17

17

17

18

18

18

19

20

20

21

21

21

21

23

23

23

24

Ramachandran, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9705

RI-RSVP-FRR Bypass

March 2025

1.  Introduction

RSVP-TE relies on a periodic refresh of RSVP messages to synchronize and maintain the states
related to the Label Switched Path (LSP) along the reserved path. In the absence of refresh
messages, the LSP-related states are automatically deleted. Reliance on periodic refreshes and
refresh timeouts are problematic from the scalability point of view. The number of RSVP-TE
LSPs that a router needs to maintain has been growing in service provider networks, and the
implementations should be capable of handling increases in LSP scale.

[RFC2961]
 specifies mechanisms to eliminate the reliance on periodic refreshes and refresh
timeouts of RSVP messages and enables a router to increase the message refresh interval to
values much longer than the default 30 seconds defined in
extensions defined in
implicitly rely on short refresh timeouts to clean up stale states.

 for supporting Fast Reroute (FRR) using bypass tunnels

. However, the protocol

[RFC4090]

[RFC2205]

In order to eliminate the reliance on refresh timeouts, the routers should unambiguously
determine when a particular LSP state should be deleted. In scenarios involving FRR using
bypass tunnels
Interval Independent RSVP-TE FRR (RI-RSVP-FRR) extensions specified in this document consist
of procedures to enable LSP state cleanup that are essential in supporting the RI-RSVP capability
for FRR using bypass tunnels from

, additional explicit teardown messages are necessary. The Refresh-

[RFC4090]
.

[RFC4090]

1.1.  Motivation

[RFC2205]

 maintains state via the generation of RSVP Path and Resv refresh

Base RSVP
messages. Refresh messages are used to both synchronize state between RSVP neighbors and to
recover from lost RSVP messages. The use of Refresh messages to cover many possible failures
has resulted in a number of operational problems.

•

One problem relates to RSVP control plane scaling due to periodic refreshes of Path and
Resv messages.

•

Another problem relates to the reliability and latency of RSVP signaling.

•

An additional problem is the time to clean up the stale state after a tear message is lost. For
more on these problems, see

Section 1 of [RFC2961]

.

 inherited these problems from standard RSVP. Procedures specified in

The problems listed above adversely affect RSVP control plane scalability, and RSVP-TE
[RFC3209]
address the above-mentioned problems by eliminating dependency on refreshes for state
synchronization and for recovering from lost RSVP messages, and also by eliminating
dependency on refresh timeout for stale state cleanup. Implementing these procedures allows
implementations to improve RSVP-TE control plane scalability. For more details on eliminating
dependency on refresh timeouts for stale state cleanup, refer to

Section 3 of [RFC8370]
.

[RFC2961]

Ramachandran, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9705

RI-RSVP-FRR Bypass

March 2025

However, the facility backup protection procedures specified in
stale state cleanup as the procedures depend on refresh timeouts for stale state cleanup. The
updated facility backup protection procedures specified in this document, in combination with
RSVP-TE Scaling Techniques
, eliminate this dependency on refresh timeouts for stale
state cleanup.

 do not fully address

[RFC4090]

[RFC8370]

The procedures specified in this document assume reliable delivery of RSVP messages, as
specified in

 is a prerequisite for this document.

. Therefore,

[RFC2961]

[RFC2961]

2.  Abbreviations and Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

In addition, the reader is expected to be familiar with the terminology in
[RFC4090] [RFC4558] [RFC8370]

[RFC8796]
.

, and

,

,

[RFC2205] [RFC3209]
,

,

2.1.  Abbreviations

PHOP:

Previous-Hop (can refer to a router or node along the LSP)

PPHOP:

Previous-Previous-Hop (can refer to a router or node along the LSP)

NHOP:

Next-Hop (can refer to a router or node along the LSP)

NNHOP:

Next-Next-Hop (can refer to a router or node along the LSP)

PLR:

MP:

Point of Local Repair (can refer to a router as defined in

[RFC4090]

)

Merge Point (can refer to a router as defined in

[RFC4090]

)

LP-MP:

Link-Protecting Merge Point (can refer to a router or node at the tail of a Link-

Protecting bypass tunnel

NP-MP:

Node-Protecting Merge Point (can refer to a router or node at the tail of a Node-

Protecting bypass tunnel

PSB:

Path State Block

RSB:

Reservation State Block

RRO:

Record Route Object (as defined in

[RFC3209]

)

TED:

Traffic Engineering Database

RI-RSVP:

Refresh-Interval Independent RSVP (the set of procedures defined in

Section 3 of

[RFC8370]

 to eliminate RSVP's reliance on periodic message refreshes)

Ramachandran, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9705

RI-RSVP-FRR Bypass

March 2025

RI-RSVP-FRR: Refresh-Interval Independent RSVP-TE FRR (the set of procedures defined in this

document to eliminate RSVP's reliance on periodic message refreshes when supporting
facility backup protection

[RFC4090]

)

2.2.  Terminology

B-SFRR-Ready:
[RFC8796]

 and added by the PLR for each protected LSP

Bypass Summary FRR Ready Extended ASSOCIATION object as defined in

Conditional PathTear:

A PathTear message containing a suggestion to a receiving downstream

router to retain the path state if the receiving router is an NP-MP

Remote PathTear:

A PathTear message sent from a PLR to the MP to delete the LSP state on the

MP if the PLR had not previously sent the backup path state reliably

LSP state

The combination of "path state" maintained as a PSB and "reservation state"

maintained as an RSB forms an individual LSP state on an RSVP-TE speaker

3.  Problem Description

        E
      /   \
     /     \
    /       \
   /         \
  /           \
 /             \
A ----- B ----- C ----- D
        \             /
         \           /
          \         /
           \       /
            \     /
             \   /
               F

Figure 1: Example Topology

In the topology in Figure 1, consider a large number of LSPs from A to D transiting B and C.
Assume that refresh interval has been configured to be as long as the order of minutes and that
refresh reduction extensions are enabled on all routers.

In addition, assume that node protection has been configured for the LSPs and the LSPs are
protected by each router in the following way:

•

A has made node protection available using bypass LSP A -> E -> C; A is the PLR and C is the
NP-MP.

•

B has made node protection available using bypass LSP B -> F -> D; B is the PLR and D is the
NP-MP.

Ramachandran, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9705

RI-RSVP-FRR Bypass

March 2025

•

C has made link protection available using bypass LSP C -> B -> F -> D; C is the PLR and D is
the LP-MP.

In the above condition, assume that the B-C link fails. The following is the sequence of events
that is expected to occur for all protected LSPs under normal conditions.

Step 1.

B performs a local repair and redirects LSP traffic over the bypass LSP B -> F -> D.

Step 2.

B also creates a backup state for the LSP and triggers the sending of a backup LSP state

to D over the bypass LSP B -> F -> D.

Step 3.

D receives the backup LSP states and merges the backups with the protected LSPs.

Step 4.

As the link on C, over which the LSP states are refreshed, has failed, C will no longer
receive state refreshes. Consequently, the protected LSP states on C will time out and C
will send the teardown messages for all LSPs. As each router should consider itself as an
MP, C will time out the state only after waiting for an additional duration equal to the
refresh timeout.

While the above sequence of events has been described in
for which no mechanism has been specified explicitly:

[RFC4090]

, there are a few problems

•

If the protected LSP on C times out before D receives signaling for the backup LSP, then D
would receive a PathTear from C prior to receiving signaling for the backup LSP, thus
resulting in deleting the LSP state. This would be possible at scale even with the default
refresh time.

•

If C is to keep state until its timeout upon the link failure, then with a long refresh interval,
this may result in a large amount of stale state on C. Alternatively, if C is to delete the state
and send a PathTear to D upon the link failure, then this would result in deleting the state on
D, thus deleting the LSP. D needs a reliable mechanism to determine whether or not it is an
MP to overcome this problem.

•

If head-end A attempts to tear down the LSP after Step 1 but before Step 2 of the above
sequence, then B may receive the teardown message before Step 2 and delete the LSP state
from its state database. If B deletes its state without informing D, with a long refresh
interval, this could cause a (large) buildup of stale state on D.

•

If B fails to perform a local repair in Step 1, then B will delete the LSP state from its state
database without informing D. As B deletes its state without informing D, with a long refresh
interval, this could cause a (large) buildup of stale state on D.

The purpose of this document is to provide solutions to the above problems, which will then
make it practical to scale up to a large number of protected LSPs in the network.

4.  Solution Aspects

The solution consists of five parts:

1.

Utilize the MP determination mechanism specified in RSVP-TE Summary FRR
 that
enables the PLR to signal the availability of local protection to the MP. In addition, introduce

[RFC8796]

Ramachandran, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9705

RI-RSVP-FRR Bypass

March 2025

PLR and MP procedures to establish a Node-ID-based Hello session between the PLR and the
MP to detect router failures and to determine capability. See Section 4.2 of this document for
more details. This part of the solution reuses some of the extensions defined in
and
that are utilized in this document.

[RFC8796]
, and the subsequent subsections will list the extensions in these documents

[RFC8370]

2.

Handle upstream link or node failures by cleaning up LSP states if the node has not found
itself as an MP through the MP determination mechanism. See Section 4.3 of this document
for more details.

3.

Introduce extensions to enable a router to send a teardown message to the downstream
router that enables the receiving router to conditionally delete its local LSP state. See Section
4.4 of this document for more details.

4.

Enhance facility backup protection by allowing a PLR to directly send a teardown message
to the MP without requiring the PLR to either have a working bypass LSP or have already
signaled the backup LSP state. See Section 4.5 of this document for more details.

5.

Introduce extensions to enable the above procedures to be backward compatible with
routers along the LSP running implementations that do not support these procedures. See
Section 4.6 of this document for more details.

4.1.  Requirement for RFC 4090 Capable Nodes to Advertise the RI-RSVP
Capability

 set the RI-RSVP flag (I-bit) that

 unless it supports all the extensions specified in the rest of

[RFC4090] MUST NOT

Section 3.1 of [RFC8370]

A node supporting facility backup protection
is defined in
this document. Hence, this document updates
procedures over facility backup protection
[RFC8370]
RSVP capability (I-bit) but does not support all the extensions specified in the rest of this
document, then it may result in lingering stale states due to the long refresh intervals
[RFC8370]
recommended by
4.7 of this document delves into this in detail.

. However, if a node supporting facility backup protection

[RFC4090]

[RFC4090]

[RFC4090]

 by defining extensions and additional
 in order to advertise the RI-RSVP capability

. This can also disrupt normal Fast Reroute (FRR) operations. Section

 does set the RI-

4.2.  Signaling Handshake Between PLR and MP

4.2.1.  PLR Behavior

As per the facility backup procedures
and the "local protection desired" flag has been set in the SESSION_ATTRIBUTE object carried in
the Path message corresponding to the LSP, then the node attempts to make local protection
available for the LSP.

, when an LSP becomes operational on a node

[RFC4090]

•

If the "node protection desired" flag is set, then the node tries to become a PLR by
attempting to create an NP-bypass LSP to the NNHOP node avoiding the NHOP node on a
protected LSP. In case node protection could not be made available, the node attempts to
create an LP-bypass LSP to the NHOP node avoiding only the link that the protected LSP
takes to reach the NHOP.

Ramachandran, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9705

RI-RSVP-FRR Bypass

March 2025

•

If the "node protection desired" flag is not set, then the PLR attempts to create an LP-bypass
LSP to the NHOP node avoiding the link that the protected LSP takes to reach the NHOP.

With regard to the PLR procedures described above and specified in
specifies the following additional procedures to support RI-RSVP

[RFC8370]
.

[RFC4090]

, this document

•

MUST

While selecting the destination address of the bypass LSP, the PLR
of the NNHOP or NHOP node from the Node-ID sub-object included in the RRO that is
carried in the most recent Resv message corresponding to the LSP. If the MP has not
included a Node-ID sub-object in the Resv RRO and if the PLR and the MP are in the same
area, then the PLR may utilize the TED to determine the router ID corresponding to the
interface address that is included by the MP in the RRO. If the NP-MP in a different IGP area
has not included a Node-ID sub-object in the RRO, then the PLR
compatibility procedures as if the downstream nodes along the LSP do not support the
extensions defined in the document (see Section 4.6.2.1).

 select the router ID

 execute backward

MUST

•

MUST

 also include its router ID in a Node-ID sub-object in the RRO that is carried in

The PLR
any subsequent Path message corresponding to the LSP. While doing so, the PLR
include the Node-ID sub-object after including its IPv4/IPv6 address or unnumbered
interface ID sub-object.

MUST

•

In parallel to the attempt made to create an NP-bypass or an LP-bypass, the PLR
initiate a Node-ID-based Hello session to the NNHOP or NHOP node respectively along the
LSP to establish the RSVP-TE signaling adjacency. This Hello session is used to detect MP
node failure as well as to determine the capability of the MP node. The PLR
that the MP supports the refresh-interval independent FRR procedures defined in this
document if the MP has set the I-bit in the CAPABILITY object
 carried in the Hello
message corresponding to the Node-ID-based Hello session. If the MP has not sent Node-ID-
, then the
based Hello messages or has not set the I-bit in the CAPABILITY object
PLR
document.

 execute backward compatibility procedures defined in Section 4.6.2.1 of this

[RFC8370]

[RFC8370]

 conclude

MUST

MUST

MUST

•

When the PLR associates a bypass to a protected LSP, it
Extended ASSOCIATION object
If a B-SFRR-Ready Extended ASSOCIATION object is included in the Path message
corresponding to the LSP, the encoding and object ordering rules specified in RSVP-TE
Summary FRR
Association Source in the object to its Node-ID address.

 be followed. In addition to those rules, the PLR

 include a B-SFRR-Ready

[RFC8796] MUST

 and trigger a Path message to be sent for the LSP.

[RFC8796]

MUST

MUST

 set the

4.2.2.  Remote Signaling Adjacency

A Node-ID-based RSVP-TE Hello session is one in which a Node-ID is used in the source and the
destination address fields of RSVP Hello messages
. This document extends Node-ID-
based RSVP Hello sessions to track the state of any RSVP-TE neighbor that is not directly
connected by at least one interface. In order to apply Node-ID-based RSVP-TE Hello sessions
between any two routers that are not immediate neighbors, the router that supports the
extensions defined in the document
messages exchanged between the PLR and the MP. The default hello interval for this Node-ID
Hello session

 be set to the default specified in RSVP-TE Scaling Techniques

 set the TTL to 255 in all outgoing Node-ID-based Hello

[RFC8370]
.

[RFC4558]

MUST

MUST

Ramachandran, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9705

RI-RSVP-FRR Bypass

March 2025

In the rest of the document, the terms "signaling adjacency" and "remote signaling adjacency"
refer specifically to the RSVP-TE signaling adjacency.

4.2.3.  MP Behavior

With regard to the MP procedures that are defined in
following additional procedures to support RI-RSVP as defined in

[RFC4090]

[RFC8370]
.

, this document specifies the

Each node along an LSP supporting the extensions defined in this document
router ID in the Node-ID sub-object of the RRO that is carried in the Resv message of the
corresponding LSP. If the PLR has not included a Node-ID sub-object in the RRO that is carried in
the Path message and if the PLR is in a different IGP area, then the router
 execute the
MP procedures specified in this document for those LSPs. Instead, the node
backward compatibility procedures defined in Section 4.6.2.2 of this document as if the
upstream nodes along the LSP do not support the extensions defined in this document.

MUST NOT

 execute

MUST

MUST

 also include its

A node receiving a Path message should determine:

•

whether the message contains a B-SFRR-Ready Extended ASSOCIATION object with its own
address as the bypass destination address and

•

whether it has an operational Node-ID signaling adjacency with the Association Source.

The node
document if:

MUST

 execute the backward compatibility procedures defined in Section 4.6.2.2 of this

•

the PLR has not included the B-SFRR-Ready Extended ASSOCIATION object,

•

there is no operational Node-ID signaling adjacency with the PLR identified by the
Association Source address, or

•

the PLR has not advertised the RI-RSVP capability in its Node-ID-based Hello messages.

If a matching B-SFRR-Ready Extended ASSOCIATION object is found in the Path message and if
there is an operational remote Node-ID signaling adjacency with the PLR (identified by the
Association Source) that has advertised the RI-RSVP capability (I-bit)
MUST
Summary FRR Extended Association specified in RSVP-TE Summary FRR
followed by the implementations supporting this document.

 consider itself as the MP for the PLR. The matching and ordering rules for Bypass

[RFC8796] MUST

, then the node

[RFC8370]

 be

•

If a matching Bypass Summary FRR Extended Association object is included by the PPHOP
node of an LSP and if a corresponding Node-ID signaling adjacency exists with the PPHOP
node, then the router

 conclude it is the NP-MP.

MUST

•

If a matching Bypass Summary FRR Extended Association object is included by the PHOP
node of an LSP and if a corresponding Node-ID signaling adjacency exists with the PHOP
node, then the router

 conclude it is the LP-MP.

MUST

Ramachandran, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9705

RI-RSVP-FRR Bypass

March 2025

4.2.4.  "Remote" State on MP

Once a router concludes it is the MP for a PLR running refresh-interval independent FRR
procedures as described in the preceding section, it
The only difference between the "remote" path state and the LSP state is the RSVP_HOP object.
The RSVP_HOP object in a "remote" path state contains the address that the PLR uses to send
Node-ID Hello messages to the MP.

 create a remote path state for the LSP.

MUST

The MP

MUST

 consider the "remote" path state corresponding to the LSP automatically deleted if:

•

the MP later receives a Path message for the LSP with no matching B-SFRR-Ready Extended
ASSOCIATION object corresponding to the PLR's IP address contained in the Path RRO,

•

the Node-ID signaling adjacency with the PLR goes down,

•

the MP receives backup LSP signaling for the LSP from the PLR,

•

the MP receives a PathTear for the LSP, or

•

the MP deletes the LSP state on a local policy or an exception event.

The purpose of "remote" path state is to enable the PLR to explicitly tear down the path and
reservation states corresponding to the LSP by sending a tear message for the "remote" path
state. Such a message tearing down the "remote" path state is called "Remote" PathTear.

The scenarios in which a "Remote" PathTear is applied are described in Section 4.5 of this
document.

4.3.  Impact of Failures on LSP State

This section describes the procedures that must be executed upon different kinds of failures by
nodes along the path of the LSP. The procedures that must be executed upon detecting RSVP
signaling adjacency failures do not impact the RSVP-TE graceful restart mechanisms
[RFC5063]
the signaling adjacency with the neighbor will be declared as having failed only after taking into
account the grace period extended for the neighbor by this node acting as a helper.

[RFC3473]
. If a node executing these procedures acts as a helper for a neighboring router, then

Node failures are detected from the state of Node-ID Hello sessions established with immediate
[RFC8370]
 recommends that each node establish Node-
neighbors. RSVP-TE Scaling Techniques
ID Hello sessions with all its immediate neighbors. A non-immediate PLR or MP failure is
detected from the state of remote signaling adjacency established according to Section 4.2.2 of
this document.

4.3.1.  Non-MP Behavior

When a router detects the PHOP link or the PHOP node failure for an LSP and the router is not
an MP for the LSP, then it
document) and delete the PSB and RSB states corresponding to the LSP.

 send a Conditional PathTear (refer to Section 4.4 of this

MUST

Ramachandran, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9705

RI-RSVP-FRR Bypass

March 2025

4.3.2.  LP-MP Behavior

When the PHOP link for an LSP fails on a router that is an LP-MP for the LSP, the LP-MP
retain the PSB and RSB states corresponding to the LSP until the occurrence of any of the
following events:

MUST

•

the Node-ID signaling adjacency with the PHOP PLR goes down,

•

the MP receives a normal or "Remote" PathTear for its PSB, or

•

the MP receives a ResvTear for its RSB.

When a router that is an LP-MP for an LSP detects PHOP node failure from the Node-ID signaling
adjacency state, the LP-MP
corresponding to the LSP.

 send a normal PathTear and delete the PSB and RSB states

MUST

4.3.3.  NP-MP Behavior

When a router that is an NP-MP for an LSP detects PHOP link failure or PHOP node failure from
the Node-ID signaling adjacency, the router
 retain the PSB and RSB states corresponding to
the LSP until the occurrence of any of the following events:

MUST

•

the remote Node-ID signaling adjacency with the PPHOP PLR goes down,

•

the MP receives a normal or "Remote" PathTear for its PSB, or

•

the MP receives a ResvTear for its RSB.

When a router that is an NP-MP for an LSP does not detect the PHOP link or the PHOP node
failure but receives a Conditional PathTear from the PHOP node, then the router
 retain the
PSB and RSB states corresponding to the LSP until the occurrence of any of the following events:

MUST

•

the remote Node-ID signaling adjacency with the PPHOP PLR goes down,

•

the MP receives a normal or "Remote" PathTear for its PSB, or

•

the MP receives a ResvTear for its RSB.

Receiving a Conditional PathTear from the PHOP node will not impact the "remote" state from
the PPHOP PLR. Note that the PHOP node must have sent the Conditional PathTear as it was not
an MP for the LSP (see Section 4.3.1 of this document).

In the example topology in Figure 1, we assume C and D are the NP-MPs for the PLRs A and B,
respectively. Now, when the A-B link fails, B will delete the LSP state, because B is not an MP and
its PHOP link has failed (this behavior is required for unprotected LSPs; refer to Section 4.3.1 of
this document). In the data plane, that would require B to delete the label forwarding entry
corresponding to the LSP. Thus, if B's downstream nodes C and D continue to retain state, it
would not be correct for D to continue to assume itself as the NP-MP for the PLR B.

Ramachandran, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9705

RI-RSVP-FRR Bypass

March 2025

The mechanism that enables D to stop considering itself as the NP-MP for B and delete the
corresponding "remote" path state is given below.

1.

When C receives a Conditional PathTear from B, it decides to retain the LSP state as it is the
NP-MP of the PLR A. It also checks whether PHOP B had previously signaled availability of
node protection. As B had previously signaled NP availability by including the B-SFRR-Ready
Extended ASSOCIATION object, C removes the B-SFRR-Ready Extended ASSOCIATION object
containing the Association Source set to B from the Path message and triggers a Path to D.

2.

When D receives the Path message, it realizes that it is no longer the NP-MP for B and so it
deletes the corresponding "remote" path state. D does not propagate the Path further down
because the only change is that the B-SFRR-Ready Extended ASSOCIATION object
corresponding to Association Source B is no longer present in the Path message.

4.3.4.  Behavior of a Router That Is Both the LP-MP and NP-MP

A router may simultaneously be the LP-MP and the NP-MP for the PHOP and PPHOP nodes of an
LSP, respectively. If the PHOP link fails on such a node, the node
states corresponding to the LSP until the occurrence of any of the following events:

 retain the PSB and RSB

MUST

•

both Node-ID signaling adjacencies with PHOP and PPHOP nodes go down,

•

the MP receives a normal or "Remote" PathTear for its PSB, or

•

the MP receives a ResvTear for its RSB.

If a router that is both an LP-MP and an NP-MP detects PHOP node failure, then the node
retain the PSB and RSB states corresponding to the LSP until the occurrence of any of the
following events:

MUST

•

the remote Node-ID signaling adjacency with the PPHOP PLR goes down,

•

the MP receives a normal or "Remote" PathTear for its PSB, or

•

the MP receives a ResvTear for its RSB.

4.4.  Conditional PathTear

In the example provided in Section 4.3.3 of this document, B deletes the PSB and RSB states
corresponding to the LSP once B detects its PHOP link has gone down as B is not an MP. If B were
to send a PathTear normally, then C would delete the LSP state immediately. In order to avoid
this, there should be some mechanism by which B can indicate to C that B does not require the
receiving node to unconditionally delete the LSP state immediately. For this, B
 add a new
optional CONDITIONS object in the PathTear. The CONDITIONS object is defined in Section 4.4.3
of this document. If node C also understands the new object, then C
state if it is an NP-MP.

 delete the LSP

MUST NOT

MUST

Ramachandran, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9705

RI-RSVP-FRR Bypass

March 2025

4.4.1.  Sending the Conditional PathTear

A router that is not an MP for an LSP
 delete the PSB and RSB states corresponding to the
LSP if the PHOP link or the PHOP Node-ID signaling adjacency goes down (see Section 4.3.1 of
this document). The router

 send a Conditional PathTear if the following are also true:

MUST

MUST

•

the ingress has requested node protection for the LSP and

•

no PathTear is received from the upstream node.

4.4.2.  Processing the Conditional PathTear

When a router that is not an NP-MP receives a Conditional PathTear, the node
PSB and RSB states corresponding to the LSP and process the Conditional PathTear by
considering it as a normal PathTear. Specifically, the node
 propagate the Conditional
PathTear downstream but remove the optional object and send a normal PathTear downstream.

 delete the

MUST NOT

MUST

MUST

 check whether the PHOP node had previously included the B-SFRR-Ready

When a node that is an NP-MP receives a Conditional PathTear, it
The node
Extended ASSOCIATION object in the Path. If the object had been included previously by the
PHOP, then the node processing the Conditional PathTear from the PHOP
corresponding object and trigger a Path downstream.

 remove the

MUST NOT

MUST

 delete the LSP state.

If a Conditional PathTear is received from a neighbor that has not advertised support (refer to
Section 4.6 of this document) for the new procedures defined in this document, then the node
MUST
PathTear downstream and delete the LSP state.

 consider the message as a normal PathTear. The node

 propagate the normal

MUST

4.4.3.  CONDITIONS Object

Any implementation that does not support a Conditional PathTear needs to ignore the new
object but process the message as a normal PathTear without generating any error. For this
reason, the Class-Num of the new object follows the pattern 10bbbbbb, where "b" represents a
bit. (The behavior for objects of this type is specified in

Section 3.10 of [RFC2205]

.)

The new object is called the "CONDITIONS" object and will specify the conditions under which
default processing rules of the RSVP-TE message

 be invoked.

MUST

The object has the following format:

Ramachandran, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9705

RI-RSVP-FRR Bypass

March 2025

    0                   1                   2                   3
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |          Length               |  Class        |     C-type    |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                  Flags (Reserved)                           |M|
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 2: CONDITIONS Object

135
1

32 bit field

Class:
C-type:
Flags:
M:

Bit 31 is the Merge-point condition (M) bit. If the M bit is set to 1, then the PathTear message

 be processed according to the receiver router role, i.e., if the receiving router is an MP
 be processed as a normal

MUST
or not for the LSP. If it is not set, then the PathTear message
PathTear message for the LSP.

MUST

Bits 0-30 are reserved; they

MUST

 be set to zero on transmission and

MUST

 be ignored on receipt.

4.5.  Remote State Teardown

If the ingress wants to tear down the LSP because of a management event while the LSP is being
locally repaired at a transit PLR, it would not be desirable to wait until the completion of backup
LSP signaling to perform state cleanup. In this case, the PLR
message instructing the MP to delete the PSB and RSB states corresponding to the LSP. The TTL
in the "Remote" PathTear message
the LSP is being locally repaired.

 be set to 255. Doing this enables LSP state cleanup when

 send a "Remote" PathTear

MUST

MUST

Consider that node C in the example topology (Figure 1) has gone down and node B locally
repairs the LSP:

1.

Ingress A receives a management event to tear down the LSP.

2.

A sends a normal PathTear for the LSP to B.

3.

Assume B has not initiated the backup signaling for the LSP during local repair. To enable
LSP state cleanup, B sends a "Remote" PathTear with the destination IP address set to that of
the node D used in the Node-ID signaling adjacency with D and the RSVP_HOP object
containing the local address used in the Node-ID signaling adjacency.

4.

B then deletes the PSB and RSB states corresponding to the LSP.

5.

On D, there would be a remote signaling adjacency with B, and so D accepts the "Remote"
PathTear and deletes the PSB and RSB states corresponding to the LSP.

Ramachandran, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9705

RI-RSVP-FRR Bypass

March 2025

4.5.1.  PLR Behavior on Local Repair Failure

If local repair fails on the PLR after a failure, the PLR
The purpose of this is to clean up LSP state from the PLR to the egress. Upon receiving the
PathTear, the MP
 delete the states corresponding to the LSP and also propagate the
PathTear downstream, thereby achieving state cleanup from all downstream nodes up to the
LSP egress. Note that in the case of link protection, the PathTear
Node-ID IP address rather than the NHOP interface address.

 send a "Remote" PathTear to the MP.

 be directed to the LP-MP's

MUST

MUST

MUST

4.5.2.  PLR Behavior on Resv RRO Change

When a PLR router that has already made NP available for an LSP detects a change in the RRO
carried in the Resv message that indicates that the router's former NP-MP is no longer present
on the path of the LSP, then the router
MP.

 send a "Remote" PathTear directly to its former NP-

MUST

In the example topology in Figure 1, assume node A has made node protection available for an
LSP and C has concluded it is the NP-MP for PLR A. When the B-C link fails, then C, implementing
the procedure specified in Section 4.3.4 of this document, will retain the states corresponding to
the LSP until one of the following occurs:

•

the remote Node-ID signaling adjacency with A goes down or

•

a PathTear or a ResvTear is received for its PSB or RSB, respectively.

If B also has made node protection available, B will eventually complete backup LSP signaling
with its NP-MP D and trigger a Resv to A with RRO changed. The new RRO of the LSP carried in
the Resv will not contain C. When A processes the Resv message with a new RRO not containing
C, its former NP-MP, A, sends a "Remote" PathTear to C. When C receives the "Remote" PathTear
for its PSB state, C will send a normal PathTear downstream to D and delete both the PSB and
RSB states corresponding to the LSP. As D has already received backup LSP signaling from B, D
will retain the control plane and forwarding states corresponding to the LSP.

4.5.3.  LSP Preemption During Local Repair

4.5.3.1.  Preemption on LP-MP After PHOP Link Failure

If an LSP is preempted on an LP-MP after its PHOP link has already failed but the backup LSP
has not been signaled yet as part of the local repair procedure, then the node
normal PathTear and delete both the PSB and RSB states corresponding to the LSP. As the LP-MP
has retained the LSP state expecting the PLR to initiate backup LSP signaling, preemption would
bring down the LSP and the node would not be LP-MP anymore, requiring the node to clean up
the LSP state.

 send a

MUST

Ramachandran, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9705

RI-RSVP-FRR Bypass

March 2025

4.5.3.2.  Preemption on NP-MP After PHOP Link Failure

If an LSP is preempted on an NP-MP after its PHOP link has already failed but the backup LSP
has not been signaled yet, then the node
 send a normal PathTear and delete the PSB and
RSB states corresponding to the LSP. As the NP-MP has retained the LSP state expecting the PLR
to initiate backup LSP signaling, preemption would bring down the LSP and the node would not
be NP-MP anymore, requiring the node to clean up LSP state.

MUST

Consider that the B-C link goes down on the same example topology (Figure 1). As C is the NP-MP
for the PLR A, C will retain the LSP state.

1.

The LSP is preempted on C.

2.

C will delete the RSB state corresponding to the LSP. However, C cannot send a PathErr or a
ResvTear to the PLR A because the backup LSP has not been signaled yet.

3.

As the only reason for C having retained state after PHOP node failure was that it was an NP-
MP, C sends a normal PathTear to D and also deletes its PSB state. D would also delete the
PSB and RSB states on receiving a PathTear from C.

4.

B starts backup LSP signaling to D. However, as D does not have the LSP state, it will reject
the backup LSP Path message and send a PathErr to B.

5.

B will delete its reservation and send a ResvTear to A.

4.6.  Backward Compatibility Procedures

[RFC8796]

"Refresh-Interval Independent RSVP FRR" and "RI-RSVP-FRR" refer to the set of procedures
defined in this document to eliminate the reliance on periodic refreshes. The extensions
proposed in RSVP-TE Summary FRR
support RI-RSVP-FRR. On the other hand, RI-RSVP-FRR extensions relating to LSP state cleanup,
namely Conditional and "Remote" PathTears, require support from one-hop and two-hop
neighboring nodes along the LSP. Thus, procedures that fall under the LSP state cleanup category
 be turned on if any of the nodes involved in the node protection FRR (i.e., the PLR, the
MUST NOT
MP, and the intermediate node in the case of NP) do not support RI-RSVP-FRR extensions. Note
that for LSPs requesting link protection, only the PLR and the LP-MP
extensions.

 may apply to implementations that do not

 support the

MUST

4.6.1.  Detecting Support for Refresh-Interval Independent RSVP FRR

An implementation supporting RI-RSVP-FRR extensions
CAPABILITY object carried in Hello messages as specified in RSVP-TE Scaling Techniques
[RFC8370]
then its neighbors will view the node as any node that does not support the extensions.

. If an implementation does not set the flag even if it supports RI-RSVP-FRR extensions,

 set the RI-RSVP Capable flag in the

MUST

•

As nodes supporting the RI-RSVP-FRR extensions initiate Node-ID-based signaling adjacency
with all immediate neighbors, such a node on the path of a protected LSP can determine
whether its PHOP and NHOP neighbors support RI-RSVP-FRR enhancements.

•

As nodes supporting the RI-RSVP-FRR extensions also initiate Node-ID-based signaling
adjacency with the NNHOP along the path of the LSP requesting node protection (see Section
4.2.1 of this document), each node along the LSP can determine whether its NNHOP node

Ramachandran, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9705

RI-RSVP-FRR Bypass

March 2025

supports RI-RSVP-FRR enhancements. If the NNHOP (a) does not reply to remote Node-ID
Hello messages or (b) does not set the RI-RSVP flag in the CAPABILITY object carried in its
Node-ID Hello messages, then the node acting as the PLR can conclude that NNHOP does not
support RI-RSVP-FRR extensions.

•

If node protection is requested for an LSP and if (a) the PPHOP node has not included a
matching B-SFRR-Ready Extended ASSOCIATION object in its Path messages, (b) the PPHOP
node has not initiated remote Node-ID Hello messages, or (c) the PPHOP node does not set
the RI-RSVP flag in the CAPABILITY object carried in its Node-ID Hello messages, then the
 conclude that the PLR does not support RI-RSVP-FRR extensions.
node

MUST

4.6.2.  Procedures for Backward Compatibility

Every node that supports RI-RSVP-FRR
order to support backward compatibility for those subsets of LSPs that also traverse nodes that
do not support RI-RSVP-FRR.

 support the procedures defined in this section in

MUST

4.6.2.1.  Lack of Support on Downstream Nodes

The procedures on the downstream direction are as follows:

•

If a node finds that the NHOP node along the LSP does not support the RI-RSVP-FRR
extensions, then the node
carried in the Path messages to the default short refresh interval.

 reduce the "refresh period" in the TIME_VALUES object

MUST

•

If node protection is requested for the LSP and the NNHOP node along the LSP does not
support the RI-RSVP-FRR extensions, then the node
TIME_VALUES object carried in the Path messages to the default short refresh interval.

 reduce the "refresh period" in the

MUST

If a node reduces the refresh time using the above procedures, it
PathTear or Conditional PathTear message to the downstream node.

MUST NOT

 send any "Remote"

Consider the example topology in Figure 1. If C does not support the RI-RSVP-FRR extensions,
then:

•

A and B reduce the refresh time to the default short refresh interval of 30 seconds and
trigger a Path message.

•

If B is not an MP and if the PHOP link of B fails, B cannot send a Conditional PathTear to C
but times out the PSB state from A normally. Note that B can only normally time out the PSB
state A if A did not set the long refresh in the TIME_VALUES object carried in the Path
messages sent earlier.

4.6.2.2.  Lack of Support on Upstream Nodes

The procedures on the upstream direction are as follows:

•

If a node finds that the PHOP node along the LSP does not support the RI-RSVP-FRR
extensions, then the node
carried in the Resv messages to the default short refresh interval.

 reduce the "refresh period" in the TIME_VALUES object

MUST

Ramachandran, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9705

RI-RSVP-FRR Bypass

March 2025

•

If node protection is requested for the LSP and the PHOP node along the LSP does not
support the RI-RSVP-FRR extensions, then the node
TIME_VALUES object carried in the Path messages to the default short refresh interval (thus,
the NHOP can use compatible values when sending a Resv).

 reduce the "refresh period" in the

MUST

•

If node protection is requested for the LSP and the PPHOP node does not support the RI-
RSVP-FRR extensions, then the node
object carried in the Resv messages to the default short refresh interval.

 reduce the "refresh period" in the TIME_VALUES

MUST

•

If the node reduces the refresh time using the above procedures, it
procedures specified in Section 4.3 of this document.

MUST NOT

 execute MP

4.6.2.3.  Incremental Deployment

The backward compatibility procedures described in the previous subsections imply that a
router supporting the RI-RSVP-FRR extensions specified in this document can apply the
procedures specified in this document either in the downstream or upstream direction of an
LSP, depending on the capability of the routers downstream or upstream in the LSP.

•

RI-RSVP-FRR extensions and procedures are enabled for downstream Path, PathTear, and
ResvErr messages corresponding to an LSP if link protection is requested for the LSP and the
NHOP node supports the extensions.

•

RI-RSVP-FRR extensions and procedures are enabled for downstream Path, PathTear, and
ResvErr messages corresponding to an LSP if node protection is requested for the LSP and
both NHOP and NNHOP nodes support the extensions.

•

RI-RSVP-FRR extensions and procedures are enabled for upstream PathErr, Resv, and
ResvTear messages corresponding to an LSP if link protection is requested for the LSP and
the PHOP node supports the extensions.

•

RI-RSVP-FRR extensions and procedures are enabled for upstream PathErr, Resv, and
ResvTear messages corresponding to an LSP if node protection is requested for the LSP and
both PHOP and PPHOP nodes support the extensions.

For example, if an implementation supporting the RI-RSVP-FRR extensions specified in this
document is deployed on all routers in a particular region of the network and if all the LSPs in
the network request node protection, then the FRR extensions will only be applied for the LSP
segments that traverse the particular region. This will aid incremental deployment of these
extensions and also allow reaping the benefits of the extensions in portions of the network
where it is supported.

Ramachandran, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9705

RI-RSVP-FRR Bypass

March 2025

4.7.  Consequences of Advertising RI-RSVP Without RI-RSVP-FRR

If a node supporting facility backup protection
does not support the RI-RSVP-FRR extensions, due to an implementation bug or configuration
error, then it leaves room for the stale state to linger around for an inordinate period of time or
for disruption of normal FRR operations (see Section 3 of this document). Consider the example
topology (Figure 1) provided in this document.

 sets the RI-RSVP capability (I-bit) but

[RFC4090]

•

Assume node B does set the RI-RSVP capability in its Node-ID-based Hello messages even
though it does not support RI-RSVP-FRR extensions. When B detects the failure of its PHOP
link along an LSP, it will not send a Conditional PathTear to C as required by the RI-RSVP-
FRR procedures. If B simply leaves the LSP state without deleting, then B may end up
holding on to the stale state until the (long) refresh timeout.

•

Instead of node B, assume node C does set the RI-RSVP capability in its Node-ID-based Hello
messages even though it does not support RI-RSVP-FRR extensions. When B details the
failure of its PHOP link along an LSP, it will send a Conditional PathTear to C as required by
the RI-RSVP-FRR procedures. However, C would not recognize the condition encoded in the
PathTear and end up tearing down the LSP.

•

Assume node B does set the RI-RSVP capability in its Node-ID-based Hello messages even
though it does not support RI-RSVP-FRR extensions. In addition, assume local repair is about
to commence on node B for an LSP that has only requested link protection, that is, B has not
initiated the backup LSP signaling for the LSP. If node B receives a normal PathTear at this
time from ingress A because of a management event initiated on A, then B simply deletes the
LSP state without sending a Remote PathTear to the LP-MP C, so C may end up holding on to
the stale state until the (long) refresh timeout.

5.  Security Considerations

The security considerations pertaining to the original RSVP protocol (
[RFC5920]
) remain relevant. When using RSVP cryptographic authentication
robust algorithms such as HMAC-SHA256, HMAC-SHA384, or HMAC-SHA512
[FIPS-180-4] SHOULD

 be used when computing the keyed message digest where possible.

[RFC2747]
[RFC2104]

[RFC2205] [RFC3209]
,

, more

, and

This document extends the applicability of Node-ID-based Hello sessions between immediate
neighbors. The Node-ID-based Hello session between the PLR and the NP-MP may require the
two routers to exchange Hello messages with a non-immediate neighbor. Therefore, the
 provide the option to configure either a specific neighbor or global
implementations
Node-ID authentication key to authentication messages received from Node-ID neighbors. The
network administrator
Node-ID Hello messages received with a TTL greater than 1. Implementations
provide the option to specify a limit on the number of Node-ID-based Hello sessions that can be
established on a router supporting the extensions defined in this document.

 utilize this option to enable RSVP-TE routers to authenticate

SHOULD

SHOULD

SHOULD

 also

Ramachandran, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9705

RI-RSVP-FRR Bypass

March 2025

6.  IANA Considerations

6.1.  CONDITIONS Object

IANA maintains the "Class Names, Class Numbers, and Class Types" registry in the "RSVP
Parameters" registry group (see
). IANA has
extended these registries by adding a new Class Number (in the 10bbbbbb range) and assigning
a new C-Type under this Class Number, as described below (see Section 4.4.3). New Class Type
values for Class Name "CONDITIONS" can be added via "IETF Review"

<http://www.iana.org/assignments/rsvp-parameters/>

[RFC8126]
.

Class Number

Class Name

Reference

135

CONDITIONS

RFC 9705

Table 1: Class Names, Class Numbers, and Class
Types

Value

Description

Reference

1

CONDITIONS

RFC 9705

Table 2: Class Types or C-Types - 135
CONDITIONS

IANA has added a subregistry called "CONDITIONS Object Flags" as shown below. New
registrations can be added via "IETF Review"

[RFC8126]
.

Bit Number

32-Bit Value Name

Reference

0-30

31

Unassigned

0x0001

Merge-point

RFC 9705

Table 3: CONDITIONS Object Flags

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Ramachandran, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9705

RI-RSVP-FRR Bypass

March 2025

[RFC2205]

[RFC2747]

[RFC2961]

[RFC3209]

[RFC3473]

[RFC4090]

[RFC4558]

[RFC5063]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8370]

[RFC8796]

,

,

Braden, R., Ed. Zhang, L. Berson, S. Herzog, S.
ReSerVation Protocol (RSVP) -- Version 1 Functional Specification" RFC 2205
DOI 10.17487/RFC2205
rfc2205>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

S. Jamin "Resource
,

, September 1997,

, and

,

,

.

,

Baker, F. Lindell, B.
,
2747 DOI 10.17487/RFC2747
,
rfc2747>

, and

.

,
, January 2000,

M. Talwar "RSVP Cryptographic Authentication" RFC

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

S. Molendini "RSVP
Berger, L. Gan, D. Swallow, G. Pan, P. Tommasi, F.
,
Refresh Overhead Reduction Extensions" RFC 2961 DOI 10.17487/RFC2961
,
April 2001,

, and
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2961>

,

,

,

.

,

,

G. Swallow "RSVP-TE:
Awduche, D. Berger, L. Gan, D. Li, T. Srinivasan, V.
,
Extensions to RSVP for LSP Tunnels" RFC 3209 DOI 10.17487/RFC3209
December 2001,

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3209>

, and

,

,

.

,

,

,

Berger, L., Ed. "Generalized Multi-Protocol Label Switching (GMPLS) Signaling
Resource ReserVation Protocol-Traffic Engineering (RSVP-TE) Extensions" RFC
3473 DOI 10.17487/RFC3473
,
rfc3473>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, January 2003,

,

.

,

Pan, P., Ed. Swallow, G., Ed.
TE for LSP Tunnels" RFC 4090 DOI 10.17487/RFC4090
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4090>

, and
,

,

,

.

A. Atlas, Ed. "Fast Reroute Extensions to RSVP-

, May 2005,

<https://

,

Ali, Z. Rahman, R. Prairie, D.
Reservation Protocol (RSVP) Hello: A Clarification Statement" RFC 4558 DOI
10.17487/RFC4558

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4558>

D. Papadimitriou "Node-ID Based Resource

, June 2006,

, and

,
.

,

,

,

Satyanarayana, A., Ed.
Reservation Protocol (RSVP) Graceful Restart" RFC 5063 DOI 10.17487/RFC5063
October 2007,

R. Rahman, Ed. "Extensions to GMPLS Resource

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5063>

 and

,
.

,

,

,

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

, June

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Beeram, V., Ed. Minei, I. Shakir, R. Pacella, D.
T. Saad "Techniques to
Improve the Scalability of RSVP-TE Deployments" RFC 8370 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8370

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8370>

, and
,

, May 2018,

,

,

,

.

,

,

Taillon, M. Saad, T., Ed. Gandhi, R. Deshmukh, A. Jork, M.
V. Beeram
,
"RSVP-TE Summary Fast Reroute Extensions for Label Switched Path (LSP)
Tunnels" RFC 8796 DOI 10.17487/RFC8796
editor.org/info/rfc8796>

<https://www.rfc-

, July 2020,

, and

,

,

,

,

.

Ramachandran, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9705

RI-RSVP-FRR Bypass

March 2025

7.2.  Informative References

[FIPS-180-4]

[RFC2104]

[RFC5920]

National Institute of Standards and Technology "Secure Hash Standard" FIPS
<https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/
PUB 180-4 DOI 10.6028/NIST.FIPS.180-4
nistpubs/FIPS/NIST.FIPS.180-4.pdf>

, August 2015,

,

,

.

,

,

Krawczyk, H. Bellare, M.
Authentication" RFC 2104 DOI 10.17487/RFC2104
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2104>

, and
,

,

.

R. Canetti "HMAC: Keyed-Hashing for Message

, February 1997,

<https://

Fang, L., Ed. "Security Framework for MPLS and GMPLS Networks" RFC 5920
DOI 10.17487/RFC5920

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5920>

, July 2010,

,

,

.

,

Acknowledgements

Yakov Rekhter

We are very grateful to
thorough review of the content of the document. We are thankful to
Shen
Okonnikov

 for his review and comments on the document.

 for their comments and inputs on early versions of the document. We also thank

Raveendra Torvi

 for his contributions to the development of the idea and

 and

Yimin
Alexander

Contributors

Ina Minei
Google, Inc.
Email:

inaminei@google.com

Markus Jork
Juniper Networks, Inc.
Email:

mjork@juniper.net

Harish Sitaraman
Individual Contributor
Email:

harish.ietf@gmail.com

Vishnu Pavan Beeram
Juniper Networks, Inc.
Email:

vbeeram@juniper.net

Ebben Aries
Juniper Networks, Inc.
Email:

exa@juniper.com

Mike Taillon
Cisco Systems, Inc.
Email:

mtaillon@cisco.com

Ramachandran, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9705

RI-RSVP-FRR Bypass

March 2025

Authors' Addresses

Chandra Ramachandran
Juniper Networks, Inc.
Email:

csekar@juniper.net

Tarek Saad
Cisco Systems, Inc.
Email:

tsaad@cisco.com

Dante Pacella
Verizon, Inc.
Email:

dante.j.pacella@verizon.com

Ramachandran, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

