Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9557
3339
Standards Track
April 2024
2070-1721
U. Sharma
Igalia, S.L.

C. Bormann
Universität Bremen TZI

RFC 9557
Date and Time on the Internet: Timestamps with
Additional Information

Abstract

This document defines an extension to the timestamp format defined in RFC 3339 for
representing additional information, including a time zone.

It updates RFC 3339 in the specific interpretation of the local offset Z, which is no longer
understood to "imply that UTC is the preferred reference point for the specified time".

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9557
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Sharma & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9557

Internet Extended Date/Time Format (IXDTF)

April 2024

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Scope

1.2.  Definitions

2.  Updating RFC 3339

2.1.  Background

2.2.  Update to RFC 3339

2.3.  Notes

3.  Internet Extended Date/Time Format (IXDTF)

3.1.  Format of Extended Information

3.2.  Registering Keys for Extended Information Tags

3.3.  Optional Generation and Elective vs. Critical Consumption

3.4.  Inconsistent time-offset and Time Zone Information

4.  Syntax Extensions to RFC 3339

4.1.  ABNF

4.2.  Examples

5.  The u-ca Suffix Key: Calendar Awareness

6.  IANA Considerations

7.  Security Considerations

7.1.  Excessive Disclosure

7.2.  Data Format Implementation Vulnerabilities

7.3.  Operating with Inconsistent Data

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

8.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

3

3

4

6

6

6

7

7

7

7

8

10

11

11

12

13

13

14

14

14

14

14

14

15

16

Sharma & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9557

Internet Extended Date/Time Format (IXDTF)

April 2024

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

17

17

Dates and times are used in a very diverse set of Internet applications, all the way from server-
side logging to calendaring and scheduling.

Each distinct instant in time can be represented in a descriptive text format using a timestamp.
[ISO8601-1:2019]
 standardizes a widely adopted timestamp format, an earlier version of which
[ISO8601:1988]
format allows timestamps to contain very little additional relevant information. Beyond that, any
contextual information related to a given timestamp needs to be either handled separately or
attached to it in a non-standard manner.

 formed the basis of the Internet Date/Time Format

. However, this

[RFC3339]

This is a pressing issue for applications that handle each such instant in time with an associated
time zone name in order to take into account events such as daylight saving time transitions.
Many of these applications attach the time zone to the timestamp in a non-standard format, at
least one of which is fairly well-adopted
attach even more information to the timestamp, including but not limited to the calendar system
in which it should be represented.

. Furthermore, applications might want to

[JAVAZDT]

This document defines an extension to the timestamp format defined in
representing additional information, including a time zone.

[RFC3339]

 for

[RFC3339]

It updates
understood to "imply that UTC is the preferred reference point for the specified time"; see Section
2.

 in the specific interpretation of the local offset Z, which is no longer

1.1.  Scope

[RFC3339]
present document defines an extension syntax that achieves the following properties:

 defines a syntax for timestamps to represent date and time in the Internet. The

•

The extension suffix is completely optional, making existing
compatible with this format.

[RFC3339]

 timestamps

•

The format is compatible with the pre-existing popular syntax for attaching time zone names
to timestamps

[JAVAZDT]
.

•

The format provides a generalized way to attach additional information to the timestamp.

We refer to this format as the Internet Extended Date/Time Format (IXDTF).

Sharma & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9557

Internet Extended Date/Time Format (IXDTF)

April 2024

This document does not address extensions to the format where the semantic result is no longer
a fixed timestamp that is referenced to a (past or future) UTC time. For instance, it does not
address:

•

future time given as a local time in some specified time zone, where changes to the definition
of that time zone (such as a political decision to enact or rescind daylight saving time) affect
the instant in time represented by the timestamp;

•

"floating time", i.e., a local time without information describing the UTC offset or time zone
in which it should be interpreted; or

•

the use of timescales different from UTC, such as International Atomic Time (TAI).

However, additional information augmenting a fixed timestamp may be sufficient to detect an
inconsistency between the intention and the actual information in the timestamp, such as
between the UTC offset and time zone name. For instance, inconsistencies might arise because of:

•

political decisions, as discussed above,

•

updates to time zone definitions being applied at different times by timestamp producers
and receivers, or

•

errors in programs producing and consuming timestamps.

While the information available in an IXDTF string is not generally sufficient to resolve an
inconsistency, it may be used to initiate some out-of-band processing to obtain sufficient
information for such a resolution.

In order to address some of the requirements implied here, related specifications in the future
might define syntax and semantics of strings similar to those described in
. Note that
the extension syntax defined in the present document is designed in such a way that it can be
useful for such specifications as well.

[RFC3339]

1.2.  Definitions

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

UTC:

Coordinated Universal Time, as maintained since 1988 by the Bureau International des
Poids et Mesures (BIPM) in conjunction with leap seconds as announced by the International
Earth Rotation and Reference Systems Service
maintained entirely by the Bureau International de l'Heure (BIH). Before 1972, UTC was not
generally recognized, and civil time was determined by individual jurisdictions using
different techniques for attempting to follow Universal Time based on measuring the rotation
of the earth.

. From 1972 through 1987, UTC was

[IERS]

UTC is often mistakenly referred to as GMT (Greenwich Mean Time), an earlier timescale for
which UTC was designed to be a useful successor.

Sharma & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9557

Internet Extended Date/Time Format (IXDTF)

April 2024

ABNF:

Augmented Backus-Naur Form, a format used to represent permissible strings in a

protocol or language, as defined in
are imported implicitly.

[RFC5234]

. The rules defined in

Appendix B of [RFC5234]

IXDTF:

Internet Extended Date/Time Format, the date/time format defined in Section 4 of this

document.

Timestamp:

An unambiguous representation of a particular instant in time.

UTC Offset:

Difference between a given local time and UTC, usually given in negative or positive
hours and minutes. For example, local time in the city of New York, NY, USA in the wintertime
in 2023 was 5 hours behind UTC, so its UTC offset was -05:00.

Z:

A suffix that, when applied to a time, denotes a UTC offset of 00:00; often pronounced "Zulu"
from the ICAO phonetic alphabet representation of the letter "Z". (The definition is from
Section 2 of [RFC3339]
[ICAO-PA]

; see the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) document

 for the phonetic alphabet mentioned.)

Time Zone:

A set of rules representing the relationship of local time to UTC for a particular

place or region. Mathematically, a time zone can be thought of as a function that maps
timestamps to UTC offsets. Time zones can deterministically convert a timestamp to local
time. They can also be used in the reverse direction to convert local time to a timestamp, with
the caveat that some local times may have zero or multiple possible timestamps due to nearby
daylight saving time changes or other changes to the UTC offset of that time zone. Unlike the
UTC offset of a timestamp, which makes no claims about the UTC offset of other related
timestamps (and which is therefore unsuitable for performing local-time operations, such as
"one day later"), a time zone also defines how to derive new timestamps based on differences
in local time. For example, to calculate "one day later than this timestamp in San Francisco,
California", a time zone is required because the UTC offset of local time in San Francisco can
change from one day to the next.

IANA Time Zone:

A named time zone that is included in the Time Zone Database (often called
[TZDB] [BCP175]
tz or zoneinfo) maintained by IANA
. Most IANA Time Zones are named for
the largest city in a particular region that shares the same time zone rules, e.g., Europe/Paris
or Asia/Tokyo

[TZDB-NAMING]
.

The rules defined for a named IANA Time Zone can change over time. The use of a named
IANA Time Zone implies that the intent is for the rules that are current at the time of
interpretation to apply: the additional information conveyed by using that time zone name is
to change with any rule changes as recorded in the IANA Time Zone Database.

Offset Time Zone:

A time zone defined by a specific UTC offset, e.g., +08:45, and serialized using

as its name the same numeric UTC offset format used in an
example:

[RFC3339]

 timestamp, for

2022-07-08T00:14:07+08:45[+08:45]

Sharma & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9557

Internet Extended Date/Time Format (IXDTF)

April 2024

An offset in the suffix that does not repeat the offset of the timestamp is inconsistent (see
Section 3.4).

[JAVAZDT]
, use of offset time zones is strongly
 copy the UTC offset from a timestamp into an

Although serialization with offset time zones is supported in this document for backwards
compatibility with java.time.ZonedDateTime
discouraged. In particular, programs
MUST NOT
offset time zone in order to satisfy another program that requires a time zone suffix in its
input. Doing this will improperly assert that the UTC offset of timestamps in that location will
never change, which can result in incorrect calculations in programs that add, subtract, or
otherwise derive new timestamps from the one provided. For example,
2020-01-01T00:00+01:00[Europe/Paris] will let programs add six months to the timestamp
while adjusting for summer time (daylight saving time). However, the same calculation
applied to 2020-01-01T00:00+01:00[+01:00] will produce an incorrect result that will be off
by one hour in the time zone Europe/Paris.

CLDR:

Common Locale Data Repository

[CLDR]

, a project of the Unicode Consortium to provide

locale data to applications.

For more information about timescales, see
[ISO8601:1988]
obsoleted by

[RFC5905]

, and the appropriate ITU documents

Appendix E of [RFC1305]
[ITU-R-TF.460-6]

, Section 3 of
. (Note:

[RFC1305]

 was

, which no longer contains the Appendix E referenced here.)

2.  Updating RFC 3339

2.1.  Background

Section 4.3 of [RFC3339]
preferred reference point for the specified time". The offset -00:00 is provided as a way to
express that "the time in UTC is known, but the offset to local time is unknown".

 states that an offset given as Z or +00:00 implies that "UTC is the

This convention mirrors a similar convention for date/time information in email headers that is
described in
email header convention is in actual use, while its adaptation into
compromised by the fact that

 and later versions do not actually allow -00:00.

 and introduced earlier in

Section 3.3 of [RFC2822]

Section 3.3 of [RFC5322]

[ISO8601:2000]

 was always

[RFC3339]

. This

Implementations that needed to express the semantics of -00:00 therefore tended to use Z
instead.

2.2.  Update to RFC 3339

This specification updates
interpreting the offset Z to mean the same as -00:00: "the time in UTC is known, but the offset to
local time is unknown".

, aligning it with the actual practice of

Section 4.3 of [RFC3339]

Section 4.3 of [RFC3339]

 is revised to read as follows:

Sharma & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9557

Internet Extended Date/Time Format (IXDTF)

April 2024

If the time in UTC is known, but the offset to local time is unknown, this can be
represented with an offset of "Z". (The original version of this specification provided
-00:00 for this purpose, which is not allowed by
 and therefore is less
interoperable;
does not have this problem). This differs semantically from an offset of +00:00, which
implies that UTC is the preferred reference point for the specified time.

 describes a related convention for email, which

Section 3.3 of [RFC5322]

[ISO8601:2000]

2.3.  Notes

Note that the semantics of the local offset +00:00 is not updated; this retains the implication that
UTC is the preferred reference point for the specified time.

Also note that the fact that
the level of interoperability that can be achieved in using this feature; however, the present
specification does not formally deprecate this syntax. With the update to
offset Z should now be used in its place.

 and later do not allow -00:00 as a local offset reduces

[ISO8601:2000]

[RFC3339]

, the local

3.  Internet Extended Date/Time Format (IXDTF)

This section discusses desirable qualities of formats for the timestamp extension suffix and
[RFC3339]
defines the IXDTF format, which extends

 for use in Internet protocols.

3.1.  Format of Extended Information

The format allows applications to specify additional important information in addition to a bare
[RFC3339]

 timestamp.

This is done by defining tags, each with a key and a value separated by an equals sign. The value
of a tag can be one or more items delimited by hyphen/minus signs.

Applications can build an informative timestamp suffix using any number of these tags.

Keys are lowercase only. Values are case-sensitive unless otherwise specified.

See Section 3.3 for the handling of inconsistent information in a suffix.

3.2.  Registering Keys for Extended Information Tags

Suffix tag keys are registered by supplying the information specified in this section. This
information is modeled after that specified for the "Media Types" registry
the provisions of this registry should be applied analogously.

[RFC6838]

; if in doubt,

Key Identifier:

The key (conforming to suffix-key in Section 4.1)

Registration Status:

"Provisional" or "Permanent"

Sharma & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9557

Internet Extended Date/Time Format (IXDTF)

April 2024

Description:

A very brief description of the key

Change Controller:

Who is in control of evolving the specification governing values for this key.

This information can include email addresses of contact points, discussion lists, and
references to relevant web pages (URLs).

Reference:

A reference. For permanent tag keys, this includes a full specification. For
provisional tag keys, there is an expectation that some information is available even if that
does not amount to a full specification; in this case, the registrant is expected to improve this
information over time.

Key names that start with an underscore are intended for experiments in controlled
environments and cannot be registered; such keys
be rejected by implementations not specifically configured to take part in such an experiment.
See
production and why that must be prevented.

 for a discussion about the danger of experimental keys leaking out to general

 be used for interchange and

MUST NOT

[BCP178]

MUST

3.3.  Optional Generation and Elective vs. Critical Consumption

For the IXDTF format, suffix tags are always optional. They can be added or left out as desired by
the generator of the string. (An application might require the presence of specific suffix tags,
though.)

Without further indication, suffix tags are also elective. The recipient is free to ignore any suffix
tag included in an IXDTF string. Reasons might include that the recipient does not implement (or
know about) the specific suffix key or that it does recognize the key but cannot act on the value
provided.

A suffix tag may also indicate that it is critical: The recipient is advised that it
 act on
the IXDTF string unless it can process the suffix tag as specified. A critical suffix tag is indicated
by following its opening bracket with an exclamation mark (see critical-flag in Section 4.1).

MUST NOT

For example, IXDTF strings such as:

2022-07-08T00:14:07+01:00[Europe/Paris]

are internally inconsistent (see Section 3.4), because Europe/Paris did not use a time zone offset
of +01:00 in July 2022. However, the time zone hint given in the suffix tag is elective, so the
recipient is not required to act on the inconsistency; it can treat the Internet Date/Time Format
string as if it were:

2022-07-08T00:14:07+01:00

Note that, as per Section 2 (see also Section 3.4), the IXDTF string:

Sharma & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9557

Internet Extended Date/Time Format (IXDTF)

April 2024

2022-07-08T00:14:07Z[Europe/Paris]

does not exhibit such an inconsistency, as the local offset of Z does not imply a
specific preferred time zone of interpretation. Using the Time Zone Database rules
for Europe/Paris in the summer of 2022, it is equivalent to:

2022-07-08T02:14:07+02:00[Europe/Paris]

Similarly, an unknown suffix may be entirely ignored:

2022-07-08T00:14:07+01:00[knort=blargel]

(assuming that the recipient does not understand the suffix key knort).

In contrast to this elective use of a suffix tag,

2022-07-08T00:14:07+01:00[!Europe/Paris]
2022-07-08T00:14:07Z[!u-ca=chinese][u-ca=japanese]
2022-07-08T00:14:07Z[u-ca=chinese][!u-ca=japanese]
2022-07-08T00:14:07Z[!knort=blargel]

each have an internal inconsistency or an unrecognized suffix key/value that is marked as
critical, so a recipient
application
how to resolve the inconsistency (see Section 3.4).

 treat these IXDTF strings as erroneous. This means that the
 reject the data or perform some other error handling, such as asking the user

MUST

MUST

MAY

Note that applications
 also perform additional processing on inconsistent or unrecognized
elective suffix tags, such as asking the user how to resolve the inconsistency. While they are not
required to do so with elective suffix tags, they are required to reject or perform some other
error handling when encountering inconsistent or unrecognized suffix tags marked as critical.

An application that encounters duplicate use of a suffix key in elective suffixes and does not want
to perform additional processing on this inconsistency
key, that is,

 choose the first suffix that has that

MUST

2022-07-08T00:14:07Z[u-ca=chinese][u-ca=japanese]
2022-07-08T00:14:07Z[u-ca=chinese]

are then treated the same.

Sharma & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9557

Internet Extended Date/Time Format (IXDTF)

April 2024

3.4.  Inconsistent time-offset and Time Zone Information

[RFC3339]
An
time and UTC (see
updates

Section 4.3 of [RFC3339]

).

 timestamp can contain a time-offset value that indicates the offset between local

Section 4 of [RFC3339]

, noting that Section 2 of the present specification

The information given in such a time-offset value can be inconsistent with the information
provided in a time zone suffix for an IXDTF timestamp.

For example, a calendar application could store an IXDTF string representing a far-future
meeting in a particular time zone. If that time zone's definition is subsequently changed to
abolish daylight saving time, IXDTF strings that were originally consistent may now be
inconsistent.

In case of an inconsistency between time-offset and time zone suffix, if the critical flag is used
on the time zone suffix, an application
used, it
timestamp or resolving the inconsistency via additional information, such as user input and/or
programmed behavior.

 act on the inconsistency. Acting on the inconsistency may involve rejecting the

 act on the inconsistency. If the critical flag is not

MUST

MAY

For example, the IXDTF timestamps in Figure 1 represent 00:14:07 UTC, indicating a local time
with a time-offset of +00:00. However, because Europe/London used offset +01:00 in July
2022, the timestamps are inconsistent, where the first case is one for which the application
act on the inconsistency (the time zone suffix is marked critical) and the second case is one for
which it

 act on the inconsistency (the time zone suffix is elective).

MAY

MUST

2022-07-08T00:14:07+00:00[!Europe/London]
2022-07-08T00:14:07+00:00[Europe/London]

Figure 1: Inconsistent IXDTF Timestamps

Section 4.3 of [RFC3339]

 as updated by Section 2, IXDTF timestamps may also forego

As per
[RFC3339]
indicating local time information in their
zone offset. The IXDTF timestamps in Figure 2 (which represent the same instant in time as the
strings in Figure 1) are not inconsistent because they do not assert any particular local time nor
local offset in their
 part. Instead, applications that receive these strings can calculate
the local offset and local time using the rules of the time zone suffix, such as Europe/London in
the example in Figure 2, which like Figure 1 has a case with a time zone suffix marked critical
(i.e., the intention is that the application must understand the time zone information) and one
marked elective, which then only is provided as additional information.

 part by using Z instead of a numeric time

[RFC3339]

Sharma & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9557

Internet Extended Date/Time Format (IXDTF)

April 2024

2022-07-08T00:14:07Z[!Europe/London]
2022-07-08T00:14:07Z[Europe/London]

Figure 2: No Inconsistency in IXDTF Timestamps

Note that -00:00 may be used instead of Z because they have the same meaning according to
[ISO8601:2000]
Section 2, but -00:00 is not allowed by

 and later so Z is preferred.

4.  Syntax Extensions to RFC 3339

4.1.  ABNF

The following rules extend the ABNF syntax defined in
of an optional suffix.

[RFC3339]

 in order to allow the inclusion

The Internet Extended Date/Time Format (IXDTF) is described by the rule date-time-ext.

date-time and time-numoffset are imported from
Section 5.6 of [RFC3339]
Appendix B.1 of [RFC5234]
.
DIGIT are imported from

, and ALPHA and

time-zone-initial = ALPHA / "." / "_"
time-zone-char    = time-zone-initial / DIGIT / "-" / "+"
time-zone-part    = time-zone-initial *time-zone-char
                    ; but not "." or ".."
time-zone-name    = time-zone-part *("/" time-zone-part)
time-zone         = "[" critical-flag
                        time-zone-name / time-numoffset "]"

key-initial       = lcalpha / "_"
key-char          = key-initial / DIGIT / "-"
suffix-key        = key-initial *key-char

suffix-value      = 1*alphanum
suffix-values     = suffix-value *("-" suffix-value)
suffix-tag        = "[" critical-flag
                        suffix-key "=" suffix-values "]"
suffix            = [time-zone] *suffix-tag

date-time-ext     = date-time suffix

critical-flag     = [ "!" ]

alphanum          = ALPHA / DIGIT
lcalpha           = %x61-7A

Figure 3: ABNF Grammar of Extensions to RFC 3339

Note that a time-zone is syntactically similar to a suffix-tag but does not include an equals
sign. This special case is only available for time zone tags.

Sharma & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9557

Internet Extended Date/Time Format (IXDTF)

April 2024

The ABNF definition of time-zone-part matches "." and "..", which are both explicitly excluded
(see the note below on time-zone-part).

time-zone-name is intended to be the name of an IANA Time Zone. As a generator and a
recipient may be using different revisions of the Time Zone Database, recipients may not be
aware of such an IANA Time Zone name and should treat such a situation as any other
inconsistency.

Note: At the time of writing, the length of each time-zone-part is limited to a
maximum of 14 characters by the rules in
. One platform is known
to enforce this limit, and a time zone name on another platform is known to exceed
this limit. As the time-zone-name will ultimately have to be looked up in the local
database, which therefore has control over the length, the time-zone-part
production in Figure 3 is deliberately permissive.

[TZDB-NAMING]

4.2.  Examples

This section contains some examples of Internet Extended Date/Time Format (IXDTF).

1996-12-19T16:39:57-08:00

Figure 4: RFC 3339 date-time with Time Zone Offset

Figure 4 represents 39 minutes and 57 seconds after the 16th hour of December 19, 1996, with an
offset of -08:00 from UTC. Note that this is the same instant in time as 1996-12-20T00:39:57Z,
expressed in UTC.

1996-12-19T16:39:57-08:00[America/Los_Angeles]

Figure 5: Adding a Time Zone Name

Figure 5 represents the exact same instant in time as the previous example but additionally
specifies the human time zone associated with it ("Pacific Time") for time-zone-aware
applications to take into account.

1996-12-19T16:39:57-08:00[America/Los_Angeles][u-ca=hebrew]

Figure 6: Projecting to the Hebrew Calendar

Figure 6 represents the exact same instant in time, but it informs calendar-aware applications
(see Section 5) that they should project it to the Hebrew calendar.

Sharma & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9557

Internet Extended Date/Time Format (IXDTF)

April 2024

1996-12-19T16:39:57-08:00[_foo=bar][_baz=bat]

Figure 7: Adding Experimental Tags

Figure 7, based on Figure 4, utilizes keys identified as experimental by a leading underscore to
declare two additional pieces of information in the suffix; these can be interpreted by
implementations that take part in the controlled experiment making use of these tag keys.

5.  The u-ca Suffix Key: Calendar Awareness

Out of the possible suffix keys, the suffix key u-ca is allocated to indicate the calendar in which
the date/time is preferably presented.

A calendar is a set of rules defining how dates are counted and consumed by implementations.
The set of suffix values allowed for this suffix key is the set of values defined for the Unicode
Calendar Identifier
[CLDR]

[TR35] [CLDR-LINKS]
, both stable and specific development stages.

 provides links to the most recent information about

.

6.  IANA Considerations

IANA has created a registry called "Timestamp Suffix Tag Keys" in a new registry group titled
"Internet Date/Time Format". Each entry in the registry shall consist of the information described
in Section 3.2. The initial contents of the registry are specified in Table 1.

Key
Identifier

Registration
Status

Description

Change
Controller

Reference

u-ca

Permanent

Preferred Calendar for
Presentation

IETF

Section 5 of
RFC 9557

Table 1: Initial Contents of Timestamp Suffix Tag Keys Registry

 is "Specification Required" for permanent entries and "Expert
The registration policy
Review" for provisional ones. In the second case, the experts are instructed to ascertain that a
basic specification does exist, even if not complete or published yet.

[BCP26]

The experts are also instructed to be frugal in the allocation of key identifiers that are suggestive
of generally applicable semantics, keeping them in reserve for suffix keys that are likely to enjoy
wide use and can make good use of the key identifier's conciseness. If the experts become aware
of key identifiers that are deployed and in use, they may also initiate a registration on their own
if they deem such a registration can avert potential future collisions.

Sharma & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9557

Internet Extended Date/Time Format (IXDTF)

April 2024

7.  Security Considerations

7.1.  Excessive Disclosure

The ability to include various pieces of ancillary information with a timestamp might lead to
excessive disclosure. An example for possibly excessive disclosure is given in
[RFC3339]
. Similarly, divulging information about the calendar system or the language of choice
may provide more information about the originator of a timestamp than the data minimization
principle would permit
timestamps need to consider whether information to be added to the timestamp is appropriate to
divulge to the recipients of this information and need to err on the side of minimizing such
disclosure if the set of recipients is not under control of the originator.

. More generally speaking, generators of IXDTF

[DATA-MINIMIZATION]

Section 7 of

7.2.  Data Format Implementation Vulnerabilities

As usual when extending the syntax of a data format, this can lead to new vulnerabilities in
implementations parsing and processing the format. No considerations are known for the IXDTF
syntax that would pose concerns that are out of the ordinary.

7.3.  Operating with Inconsistent Data

Information provided in the various parts of an IXDTF string may be inconsistent in interesting
ways, both with the extensions defined in this specification (for instance, see Section 3.4) and
with future extensions still to be defined. Where consistent interpretation between multiple
actors is required for security purposes (e.g., where timestamps are embedded as parameters in
access control information), only extensions that have a well-understood and shared resolution
of such inconsistent data can be employed.

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

[BCP175]

Best Current Practice 175,
At the time of writing, this BCP comprises the following:

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/bcp175>
.

 and
,

Lear, E.
,
BCP 175 RFC 6557 DOI 10.17487/RFC6557
editor.org/info/rfc6557>

P. Eggert "Procedures for Maintaining the Time Zone Database"
<https://www.rfc-

, February 2012,

,

.

,

[BCP178]

Best Current Practice 178,
At the time of writing, this BCP comprises the following:

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/bcp178>
.

,

Saint-Andre, P. Crocker, D.
Similar Constructs in Application Protocols" BCP 178 RFC 6648 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6648

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6648>

M. Nottingham "Deprecating the "X-" Prefix and

, June 2012,

, and

,

,

,

,

.

Sharma & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9557

Internet Extended Date/Time Format (IXDTF)

April 2024

[BCP26]

Best Current Practice 26,
At the time of writing, this BCP comprises the following:

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/bcp26>
.

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

, June

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

 and

Klyne, G.
3339 DOI 10.17487/RFC3339
,
rfc3339>

.

C. Newman "Date and Time on the Internet: Timestamps" RFC

,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, July 2002,

Crocker, D., Ed.
 and
ABNF" STD 68 RFC 5234 DOI 10.17487/RFC5234
,
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5234>

,

.

P. Overell "Augmented BNF for Syntax Specifications:

,

, January 2008,

<https://

Freed, N. Klensin, J.
,
Procedures" BCP 13 RFC 6838 DOI 10.17487/RFC6838
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6838>

, and
,

,

,

.

T. Hansen "Media Type Specifications and Registration

,

, January 2013,

<https://

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

[RFC2119]

[RFC3339]

[RFC5234]

[RFC6838]

[RFC8174]

8.2.  Informative References

[CLDR]

[CLDR-LINKS]

Unicode CLDR "Unicode CLDR Project" <https://cldr.unicode.org>

,

,

.

Unicode CLDR "Stable Links Info" <https://cldr.unicode.org/stable-links-info>

,

,

.

[DATA-MINIMIZATION]

,

Arkko, J. "Emphasizing data minimization among protocol
participants" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-arkko-iab-data-
,
minimization-principle-05
, 10 July 2023,
draft-arkko-iab-data-minimization-principle-05>

,

.

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/

[ICAO-PA]

[IERS]

International Civil Aviation Organization "Annex 10 to the Convention on
International Civil Aviation: Aeronautical Telecommunications; Volume II
Communication Procedures including those with PANS status" 7th ed.
2016,
ii-communication-procedures-including-those-with-pans-status>

<https://store.icao.int/annex-10-aeronautical-telecommunications-volume-

, July

,

.

,

,

IERS "International Earth Rotation Service Bulletins" <https://www.iers.org/
IERS/EN/Publications/Bulletins/bulletins.html>

,

.

Sharma & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9557

Internet Extended Date/Time Format (IXDTF)

April 2024

[ISO8601-1:2019]

ISO "Date and time -- Representations for information interchange -- Part 1:

,

[ISO8601:1988]

[ISO8601:2000]

[ITU-R-TF.460-6]

[JAVAZDT]

[RFC1305]

[RFC2822]

[RFC5322]

[RFC5905]

[TR35]

[TZDB]

Basic rules" ISO 8601-1:2019
,
70907.html>
.

, February 2019,

<https://www.iso.org/standard/

,

ISO "Data elements and interchange formats -- Information interchange --
Representation of dates and times" ISO 8601:1988
www.iso.org/standard/15903.html> Also available from <https://
nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/Legacy/FIPS/fipspub4-1-1991.pdf>
.

, June 1988,

<https://

,
.

,

ISO "Data elements and interchange formats -- Information interchange --
Representation of dates and times" ISO 8601:2000
<https://
,
www.iso.org/standard/26780.html>
.

, December 2000,

ITU-R "Standard-frequency and time-signal emissions" ITU-R

,

,

Recommendation TF.460-6
460/en>

.

, February 2002,

<https://www.itu.int/rec/R-REC-TF.

,

Oracle "Class DateTimeFormatter: ISO_ZONED_DATE_TIME" <https://
docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/time/format/
DateTimeFormatter.html#ISO_ZONED_DATE_TIME>

,

.

,

Mills, D. "Network Time Protocol (Version 3) Specification, Implementation and
Analysis" RFC 1305 DOI 10.17487/RFC1305
editor.org/info/rfc1305>

<https://www.rfc-

, March 1992,

,

,

.

Resnick, P., Ed. "Internet Message Format" RFC 2822 DOI 10.17487/RFC2822
April 2001,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2822>

,
.

,

,

,

Resnick, P., Ed. "Internet Message Format" RFC 5322 DOI 10.17487/RFC5322
October 2008,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5322>

,

,

.

,

,

Mills, D. Martin, J., Ed. Burbank, J.
W. Kasch "Network Time Protocol
, and
Version 4: Protocol and Algorithms Specification" RFC 5905 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5905

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5905>

, June 2010,

,
,

,

,

.

,

Davis, M., Ed. "Unicode Technical Standard #35: Unicode Locale Data Markup
Language (LDML)" <https://www.unicode.org/reports/tr35/
#UnicodeCalendarIdentifier>
.

,

,

IANA "Time zone and daylight saving time data" <https://data.iana.org/time-
zones/tz-link.html>

,

.

[TZDB-NAMING]

IANA "Theory and pragmatics of the tz code and data" <https://data.iana.org/

,

,

time-zones/theory.html>

.

Acknowledgements

This specification benefits from work prepared by ECMA TC39, specifically in the Temporal
proposal.

Sharma & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9557

Internet Extended Date/Time Format (IXDTF)

April 2024

Justin Grant
 and
Bron Gondwana

Mark
 provided editorial improvements. The SEDATE WG Chairs
, the latter also in his role as CALEXT WG Chair, helped set up the

Richard Gibson
McFadden
 and
structures needed to navigate the multi-SDO environment.
the development of this specification, which led to significant improvements. The authors would
 for her AD review and for her overall guidance
also like to especially thank
during the development process.

 critically accompanied

Francesca Palombini

John Klensin

Contributors

Justin Grant
Email:

 justingrant.ietf.public@gmail.com

Authors' Addresses

Ujjwal Sharma
Igalia, S.L.
Bugallal Marchesi, 22, 1º
15008 A Coruña
Spain
Email:

 ryzokuken@igalia.com

Carsten Bormann
Universität Bremen TZI
Postfach 330440
D-28359 Bremen
Germany
Phone:
Email:

 +49-421-218-63921
 cabo@tzi.org

Sharma & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 17

