Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9877
Standards Track
October 2025
2070-1721
J. Singh
ARIN

T. Harrison
APNIC

RFC 9877
Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP) Extension
for Geofeed Data

Abstract

This document defines a new Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP) extension, "geofeed1", for
indicating that an RDAP server hosts geofeed URLs for its IP network objects. It also defines a
new media type and a new link relation type for the associated link objects included in
responses.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9877
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Singh & Harrison

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9877

RDAP Geofeed

October 2025

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Specification

2.1.  Media Type for a Geofeed Link

2.2.  Geofeed Link

2.3.  Extension Identifier

2.4.  Example

3.  Operational Considerations

4.  Privacy Considerations

5.  Security Considerations

6.  IANA Considerations

6.1.  RDAP Extensions Registry

6.2.  Link Relations Registry

6.3.  Media Types Registry

6.4.  Structured Syntax Suffixes Registry

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

2

3

3

3

4

5

5

6

6

7

7

7

7

8

9

9

9

10

11

 and

[RFC9632]

 detail the IP geolocation feed (commonly known as 'geofeed') file

[RFC8805]
format and associated access mechanisms. While
geofeed URLs available by way of a Routing Policy Specification Language (RPSL)
service, the Regional Internet Registries (RIRs) have deployed Registration Data Access Protocol
(RDAP) (
) services as successors to RPSL for Internet
number resource registrations, and maintaining feature parity between the two services
supports client transition from RPSL to RDAP in this context. To that end, this document specifies

[RFC7480] [RFC7481] [RFC9082] [RFC9083]
,

 describes how a registry can make

[RFC9632]

[RFC2622]

,

,

Singh & Harrison

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9877

RDAP Geofeed

October 2025

how geofeed URLs can be accessed through RDAP. It defines a new RDAP extension, "geofeed1",
for indicating that an RDAP server hosts geofeed URLs for its IP network objects, as well as a
new media type and a new link relation type for the associated link objects.

Fetching and making use of geofeed data is out of scope for the purposes of this document. See
[RFC8805]

 for further details.

[RFC9632]

 and

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

Indentation and whitespace in examples are provided only to illustrate element relationships
and are not required features of this specification.

"..." in examples is used as shorthand for elements defined outside of this document.

2.  Specification

2.1.  Media Type for a Geofeed Link

 requires a geofeed file to be a UTF-8

[RFC9632]
 comma-separated values (CSV) file,
with a series of "#" comments at the end for the optional Resource Public Key Infrastructure
(RPKI)
for a geofeed file, since it supports the "#" comments needed for including the RPKI signature.

 signature. At first glance, the "text/csv" media type seems like a good candidate

[RFC6480]

[RFC3629]

However, although the CSV geofeed data could be viewed directly by a user such that the "text/
csv" media type was appropriate, the most common use case will involve it being processed by
some sort of application first, in order to facilitate subsequent IP address lookup operations.
Therefore, using a new "application" media type with a "geofeed" subtype (
[RFC6838]
) for the geofeed data is preferable to using "text/csv".

Section 4.2.5 of

To that end, this document registers a new "application/geofeed+csv" media type in the IANA
"Media Types" registry (see Section 6.3), and a new "+csv" suffix in the IANA "Structured Syntax
Suffixes" registry (see Section 6.4).

2.2.  Geofeed Link

Section 5.4 of [RFC9083]
An RDAP server that hosts geofeed URLs for its IP network objects (
include link objects for those geofeed URLs in IP network objects in its responses. These link
objects are added to the "links" member of each object (

Section 4.2 of [RFC9083]

).

) may

In RDAP, the "value", "rel", and "href" JSON members are required for any link object.
Additionally, for a geofeed link object, the "type" JSON member is
specific components of a link object are like so:

RECOMMENDED

. The geofeed-

"rel":

Singh & Harrison

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9877

RDAP Geofeed

October 2025

The link relation type is set to "geofeed". This is a new link relation type for IP geolocation
feed data, registered in the IANA "Link Relations" registry (see Section 6.2) by this document.

"href":

The target URL is set to the HTTPS URL of the geofeed file (

Section 6 of [RFC9632]

) for an

IP network.

"type":

"application/geofeed+csv" (see Section 2.1).

An IP network object returned by an RDAP server
objects, though typically an IP network will have either zero or only one. The scenario where
more than one geofeed link object could be returned is when the server is able to represent that
data in multiple languages. In such a case, the server
the geofeed link objects. Except for the multiple-languages scenario, the server
return more than one geofeed link object.

 contain zero or more geofeed link

 provide "hreflang" members for

SHOULD NOT

SHOULD

MAY

2.3.  Extension Identifier

This document defines a new extension identifier, "geofeed1", for use by servers that host
geofeed URLs for their IP network objects and include geofeed URL link objects in their
responses to clients in accordance with Section 2.2. A server that uses this extension identifier
) for any lookup or
MUST
search response containing an IP network object, as well as in the help response. Here is an
elided example of this inclusion:

 include it in the "rdapConformance" array (

Section 4.1 of [RFC9083]

{
    "rdapConformance": [ "rdap_level_0", "geofeed1", ... ],
    ...
}

If the server includes "geofeed1" in the "rdapConformance" array, then for any response
concerning a particular IP network object for which the server possesses a geofeed URL and is
able to return it to the client (i.e., the server is not compelled to omit it due to regulatory
constraints or similar), the server
response.

 include a corresponding geofeed link object in the

MUST

An RDAP server may make use of the "application/geofeed+csv" media type and the "geofeed"
link relation defined in this specification in its responses without including the "geofeed1"
extension identifier in those responses, because RDAP servers are free to use any registered
media type or link relation in a standard response without implementing any particular
extension. The additional value of including the extension identifier in the "rdapConformance"
array is that it signals to the client that the server hosts geofeed URLs for its IP network objects.
This is useful where a client receives an IP network object without a geofeed link object, because
in that case the client can infer that no geofeed data is available for that object, since the server
would have provided it if it were available.

Singh & Harrison

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9877

RDAP Geofeed

October 2025

Although a server may use registered media types in its link objects without any restrictions, it is
useful to define new RDAP extensions for those media types in order for the server to
communicate to clients that it will make data for that type accessible. This is what the server
does with the "geofeed1" extension identifier.

The "1" in "geofeed1" denotes that this is version 1 of the geofeed extension. New versions of the
geofeed extension will use different extension identifiers.

2.4.  Example

The following is an elided example of an IP network object with a geofeed link object:

{
    "objectClassName": "ip network",
    "handle": "XXXX-RIR",
    "startAddress": "2001:db8::",
    "endAddress": "2001:db8:0:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff",
    "ipVersion": "v6",
    "name": "NET-RTR-1",
    "type": "DIRECT ALLOCATION",
    "country": "AU",
    "parentHandle": "YYYY-RIR",
    "status": [ "active" ],
    "links":
     [
        {
            "value": "https://example.net/ip/2001:db8::/48",
            "rel": "self",
            "href": "https://example.net/ip/2001:db8::/48",
            "type": "application/rdap+json"
        },
        {
            "value": "https://example.net/ip/2001:db8::/48",
            "rel": "geofeed",
            "href": "https://example.com/geofeed",
            "type": "application/geofeed+csv"
        },
        ...
    ],
    ...
}

3.  Operational Considerations

When an RDAP client performs an IP network lookup, per
server is required to return the most-specific IP network object that covers the IP address range
provided by the client. That IP network object may not have an associated geofeed link, but it is
possible that a less-specific IP network object does have such a link. Clients attempting to
retrieve geofeed data for a given IP address range via RDAP should consider whether to retrieve
the parent object for the initial response (and so on, recursively) in the event that the initial

Section 3.1.1 of [RFC9082]

, the RDAP

Singh & Harrison

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9877

RDAP Geofeed

October 2025

response does not contain geofeed data. Conversely, server operators should consider interface
options for resource holders in order to support the provisioning of geofeed links for all
networks covered by the associated data.

It is common for a resource holder to maintain a single geofeed file containing the geofeed data
for all of their resources. The resource holder then updates each of their network object
registrations to refer to that single geofeed file. As with geofeed references in inetnum: objects
(per
retrieve the data from the associated link
range is outside the IP network object's address range.

), clients who find a geofeed link object within an IP network object and opt to
 ignore any entry where the entry's IP address

[RFC9632]

MUST

 recommends that consumers of geofeed data verify that the publisher of
 helps

Section 3.2 of [RFC8805]
the data is authoritative for the relevant resources. The RDAP bootstrap process
clients with this recommendation, since a client following that process will be directed to the
RDAP server that is able to make authoritative statements about the disposition of the relevant
resources.

[RFC9224]

To prevent undue load on RDAP and geofeed servers, clients fetching geofeed data using these
mechanisms
details.

 do frequent real-time lookups. See

Section 6 of [RFC9632]

 for further

MUST NOT

4.  Privacy Considerations

All the privacy considerations from
the service provider publishing the geofeed file
individual.

Section 7 of [RFC9632]

 apply to this document. In particular,
 take care not to expose the location of any

MUST

Many jurisdictions have laws or regulations that restrict the use of "personal data", per the
definition in
. Given that, registry operators should ascertain whether the regulatory
environment in which they operate permits implementation of the functionality defined in this
document.

[RFC6973]

5.  Security Considerations

Sections 6 and 9 of
in the RDAP context.

[RFC9632]

 document several security considerations that are equally relevant

A geofeed file
file may also contain an RPKI signature, per

MUST

 be referenced with an HTTPS URL, per

Section 5 of [RFC9632]
.

Section 6 of [RFC9632]

. The geofeed

Besides that, this document does not introduce any new security considerations past those
already discussed in the RDAP protocol specifications (

[RFC7481] [RFC9560]
,

).

Singh & Harrison

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9877

RDAP Geofeed

October 2025

6.  IANA Considerations

6.1.  RDAP Extensions Registry

IANA has registered the following value in the "RDAP Extensions" registry at
EXTENSIONS]
:

[RDAP-

geofeed1

Extension Identifier:
Registry Operator:
Specification:
Contact:
Intended Usage:

Any
RFC 9877
IETF <iesg@ietf.org>

This extension describes version 1 of a method to access the IP geolocation

feed data through RDAP.

6.2.  Link Relations Registry

IANA has registered the following value in the "Link Relations" registry at

[LINK-RELATIONS]
:

geofeed

Relation Name:
Description:
context.
Reference:

RFC 9877

Refers to a resource with IP geofeed location information related to the link

6.3.  Media Types Registry

IANA has registered the following media type in the "Media Types" registry at

[MEDIA-TYPES]
:

Type name:

application

Subtype name:

geofeed+csv

Required parameters:

N/A

Optional parameters:

"charset" is an optional parameter for "text/csv", but it is not used for

"application/geofeed+csv" because the geofeed content is always in UTF-8 (
[RFC8805]

).

Section 2.1 of

Encoding considerations:

See

Section 2 of [RFC9632]

.

Security considerations:

See Section 5 of RFC 9877.

Interoperability considerations:

There are no known interoperability problems regarding this

media format.

Published specification:

RFC 9877.

Singh & Harrison

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9877

RDAP Geofeed

October 2025

Applications that use this media type:

Implementations of the Registration Data Access Protocol

(RDAP) Extension for Geofeed Data. Furthermore, any application that processes the CSV
geofeed data.

Additional information:

This media type is a product of the IETF REGEXT Working Group. The
REGEXT charter, information on the REGEXT mailing list, and other documents produced by
the REGEXT Working Group can be found at

[REGEXT]

.

Person & email address to contact for further information:

REGEXT Working Group <regext@ietf.org>

Intended usage:

COMMON

Restrictions on usage:

None

Authors:

Tom Harrison, Jasdip Singh

Author/Change controller:

IETF

6.4.  Structured Syntax Suffixes Registry

IANA has registered the following value in the "Structured Syntax Suffixes" registry at
[STRUCTURED-SYNTAX-SUFFIXES]
:

Name:

Comma-Separated Values (CSV)

+suffix:

+csv

References:

[RFC4180] [RFC7111]
,

Encoding Considerations:

Same as "text/csv".

Interoperability Considerations:

Same as "text/csv".

Fragment Identifier Considerations:

The syntax and semantics of fragment identifiers specified

for +csv

SHOULD

 be as specified for "text/csv".

The syntax and semantics for fragment identifiers for a specific "xxx/yyy+csv"
processed as follows:

SHOULD

 be

•

For cases defined in +csv, where the fragment identifier resolves per the +csv rules, then
as specified for +csv.

•

For cases defined in +csv, where the fragment identifier does not resolve per the +csv
rules, then as specified for "xxx/yyy+csv".

•

For cases not defined in +csv, then as specified for "xxx/yyy+csv".

Security Considerations:

Same as "text/csv".

Contact:

IETF <iesg@ietf.org>

Author/Change controller:

IETF

Singh & Harrison

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9877

RDAP Geofeed

October 2025

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC3629]

[RFC8174]

[RFC9082]

[RFC9083]

[RFC9224]

[RFC9632]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Yergeau, F. "UTF-8, a transformation format of ISO 10646" STD 63 RFC 3629
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC3629
rfc3629>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, November 2003,

,

,

.

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Hollenbeck, S.
Format" STD 95 RFC 9082 DOI 10.17487/RFC9082
editor.org/info/rfc9082>
.

A. Newton "Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP) Query
<https://www.rfc-

, June 2021,

 and
,

,

,

,

Hollenbeck, S.
,
 and
Protocol (RDAP)" STD 95 RFC 9083 DOI 10.17487/RFC9083
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9083>

,

,

.

A. Newton "JSON Responses for the Registration Data Access

, June 2021,

<https://

,

Blanchet, M. "Finding the Authoritative Registration Data Access Protocol
(RDAP) Service" STD 95 RFC 9224 DOI 10.17487/RFC9224
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9224>

, March 2022,

,
.

,

<https://

,

Bush, R. Candela, M. Kumari, W.
, and
Data" RFC 9632 DOI 10.17487/RFC9632
,
editor.org/info/rfc9632>

,

,

.

R. Housley "Finding and Using Geofeed
, August 2024,

<https://www.rfc-

,

7.2.  Informative References

[LINK-RELATIONS]

IANA "Link Relations" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/link-relations/>
.

,

,

[MEDIA-TYPES]

IANA "Media Types" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/media-types/>

,

,

.

[RDAP-EXTENSIONS]

IANA "RDAP Extensions" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/rdap-

,

extensions/>

,
.

[REGEXT]

[RFC2622]

IETF "Registration Protocols Extensions (regext)" <https://datatracker.ietf.org/
,
wg/regext/>

,

.

,
, and

Alaettinoglu, C. Villamizar, C. Gerich, E. Kessens, D. Meyer, D. Bates, T.
Karrenberg, D.
,
RFC 2622 DOI 10.17487/RFC2622
, June 1999,
rfc2622>

M. Terpstra "Routing Policy Specification Language (RPSL)"
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,
.

,

,

,

,

,

Singh & Harrison

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9877

RDAP Geofeed

October 2025

[RFC4180]

[RFC6480]

[RFC6838]

[RFC6973]

[RFC7111]

[RFC7480]

[RFC7481]

[RFC8805]

[RFC9560]

,

Shafranovich, Y. "Common Format and MIME Type for Comma-Separated
Values (CSV) Files" RFC 4180 DOI 10.17487/RFC4180
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4180>

, October 2005,

<https://

,

,

.

 and

Lepinski, M.
RFC 6480 DOI 10.17487/RFC6480
info/rfc6480>

,

.

S. Kent "An Infrastructure to Support Secure Internet Routing"
,

,

, February 2012,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

Freed, N. Klensin, J.
,
Registration Procedures" BCP 13 RFC 6838 DOI 10.17487/RFC6838
,
2013,

T. Hansen "Media Type Specifications and
, and
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6838>

,

.

,

, January

,

R.
Cooper, A. Tschofenig, H. Aboba, B. Peterson, J. Morris, J. Hansen, M.
Smith "Privacy Considerations for Internet Protocols" RFC 6973 DOI 10.17487/
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6973>
RFC6973

, July 2013,

, and

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

Hausenblas, M. Wilde, E.
, and
J. Tennison "URI Fragment Identifiers for the
text/csv Media Type" RFC 7111 DOI 10.17487/RFC7111
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7111>

, January 2014,

,

,

.

<https://

Newton, A. Ellacott, B.
,
Access Protocol (RDAP)" STD 95 RFC 7480 DOI 10.17487/RFC7480
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7480>

N. Kong "HTTP Usage in the Registration Data

, and
,

,
.

,

, March 2015,

 and
Hollenbeck, S.
Protocol (RDAP)" STD 95 RFC 7481 DOI 10.17487/RFC7481
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7481>

,

,

,

.

N. Kong "Security Services for the Registration Data Access

, March 2015,

<https://

,

Kline, E. Duleba, K. Szamonek, Z. Moser, S.
Published IP Geolocation Feeds" RFC 8805 DOI 10.17487/RFC8805
,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8805>

W. Kumari "A Format for Self-
, August 2020,

, and

,

,

,

.

,

Hollenbeck, S. "Federated Authentication for the Registration Data Access
Protocol (RDAP) Using OpenID Connect" RFC 9560 DOI 10.17487/RFC9560
2024,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9560>

,

,

.

, April

[STRUCTURED-SYNTAX-SUFFIXES]

IANA "Structured Syntax Suffixes" <https://www.iana.org/

,

,

assignments/media-type-structured-suffix/>

.

Acknowledgements

[RFC9632] Gavin Brown

Mark Kosters
 provided initial support and encouragement for this work, along with the authors
of
 suggested using a web link instead of a simple URL string to specify a
.
geofeed file URL.
Andy Newton James Gould Scott Hollenbeck Mario Loffredo Orie Steele
Alexey Melnikov Mark Nottingham Rifaat Shekh-Yusef Dale R. Worley Dhruv Dhody Mohamed
,
Boucadair Mahesh Jethanandani Ketan Talaulikar
 provided valuable feedback
for this document.

,
Éric Vyncke
, and

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Singh & Harrison

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9877

RDAP Geofeed

October 2025

Authors' Addresses

Jasdip Singh
ARIN
Email:

jasdips@arin.net

Tom Harrison
APNIC
Email:

tomh@apnic.net

Singh & Harrison

Standards Track

Page 11

