Stream:
RFC:
Obsoletes:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9438
8312
5681
Standards Track
August 2023
2070-1721
L. Xu
UNL

S. Ha
Colorado

I. Rhee
Bowery

V. Goel
Apple Inc.

L. Eggert,
NetApp

 Ed.

RFC 9438
CUBIC for Fast and Long-Distance Networks

Abstract

CUBIC is a standard TCP congestion control algorithm that uses a cubic function instead of a
linear congestion window increase function to improve scalability and stability over fast and
long-distance networks. CUBIC has been adopted as the default TCP congestion control algorithm
by the Linux, Windows, and Apple stacks.

This document updates the specification of CUBIC to include algorithmic improvements based on
these implementations and recent academic work. Based on the extensive deployment
experience with CUBIC, this document also moves the specification to the Standards Track and
obsoletes RFC 8312. This document also updates RFC 5681, to allow for CUBIC's occasionally more
aggressive sending behavior.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9438
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9438

TCP CUBIC

August 2023

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Conventions

3.  Design Principles of CUBIC

3.1.  Principle 1 for the CUBIC Increase Function

3.2.  Principle 2 for Reno-Friendliness

3.3.  Principle 3 for RTT-Fairness

3.4.  Principle 4 for the CUBIC Decrease Factor

4.  CUBIC Congestion Control

4.1.  Definitions

4.1.1.  Constants of Interest

4.1.2.  Variables of Interest

4.2.  Window Increase Function

4.3.  Reno-Friendly Region

4.4.  Concave Region

4.5.  Convex Region

4.6.  Multiplicative Decrease

4.7.  Fast Convergence

4.8.  Timeout

4.9.  Spurious Congestion Events

4.9.1.  Spurious Timeouts

4.9.2.  Spurious Fast Retransmits

4.10. Slow Start

5.  Discussion

5.1.  Fairness to Reno

3

5

5

5

6

6

7

7

7

8

8

9

10

11

12

12

13

14

14

14

15

16

16

17

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9438

TCP CUBIC

August 2023

5.2.  Using Spare Capacity

5.3.  Difficult Environments

5.4.  Investigating a Range of Environments

5.5.  Protection against Congestion Collapse

5.6.  Fairness within the Alternative Congestion Control Algorithm

5.7.  Performance with Misbehaving Nodes and Outside Attackers

5.8.  Behavior for Application-Limited Flows

5.9.  Responses to Sudden or Transient Events

5.10. Incremental Deployment

6.  Security Considerations

7.  IANA Considerations

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

8.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Evolution of CUBIC since the Original Paper

Appendix B.  Proof of the Average CUBIC Window Size

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

18

19

19

19

20

20

20

20

20

21

21

21

21

22

25

25

26

27

CUBIC has been adopted as the default TCP congestion control algorithm in the Linux, Windows,
and Apple stacks, and has been used and deployed globally. Extensive, decade-long deployment
experience in vastly different Internet scenarios has convincingly demonstrated that CUBIC is
safe for deployment on the global Internet and delivers substantial benefits over classical Reno
congestion control
deployed standard for TCP congestion control. CUBIC can also be used for other transport
protocols such as QUIC
[RFC9260]

. It is therefore to be regarded as the currently most widely

 and the Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP)

 as a default congestion controller.

[RFC9000]

[RFC5681]

The design of CUBIC was motivated by the well-documented problem classical Reno TCP has with
low utilization over fast and long-distance networks
. This problem arises from a
slow increase of the congestion window (cwnd) following a congestion event in a network with a
large bandwidth-delay product (BDP).

 indicates that this problem is frequently

[K03] [RFC3649]

[HLRX07]

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9438

TCP CUBIC

August 2023

observed even in the range of congestion window sizes over several hundreds of packets. This
problem is equally applicable to all Reno-style standards and their variants, including TCP-Reno
[RFC5681]
[RFC5348]
for window growth. All Reno-style standards and their variants are collectively referred to as
"Reno" in this document.

, TCP-NewReno
, and QUIC congestion control

, which use the same linear increase function

, TCP Friendly Rate Control (TFRC)

[RFC6582] [RFC6675]

[RFC9260]

[RFC9002]

, SCTP

CUBIC, originally proposed in
classical Reno to remedy this problem. Specifically, CUBIC uses a cubic function instead of the
linear window increase function of Reno to improve scalability and stability under fast and long-
distance networks.

, is a modification to the congestion control algorithm of

[HRX08]

This document updates the specification of CUBIC to include algorithmic improvements based on
the Linux, Windows, and Apple implementations and recent academic work. Based on the
extensive deployment experience with CUBIC, it also moves the specification to the Standards
, which limits the
Track, obsoleting
aggressiveness of Reno TCP implementations. Since CUBIC is occasionally more aggressive than
the algorithms defined in
[RFC5681]
which allows for CUBIC's behavior as defined in this document.

, replacing it with a normative reference to guideline (1) in

, this document updates the first paragraph of

. This requires an update to

Section 3 of [RFC5033]
,

Section 3 of [RFC5681]

Section 3 of

[RFC8312]

[RFC5681]

Specifically, CUBIC may increase the congestion window more aggressively than Reno during the
[RFC5681]
congestion avoidance phase. According to
, during congestion avoidance, the sender
must not increment cwnd by more than Sender Maximum Segment Size (SMSS) bytes once per
round-trip time (RTT), whereas CUBIC may increase cwnd much more aggressively. Additionally,
CUBIC recommends the HyStart++ algorithm
increases of more than SMSS bytes for incoming acknowledgments during slow start, while this
behavior is not allowed as part of the standard behavior prescribed by

 for slow start, which allows for cwnd

[RFC5681]
.

[RFC9406]

Binary Increase Congestion Control (BIC-TCP)
, a predecessor of CUBIC, was selected as
the default TCP congestion control algorithm by Linux in the year 2005 and had been used for
several years by the Internet community at large.

[XHR04]

CUBIC uses a window increase function similar to BIC-TCP and is designed to be less aggressive
and fairer to Reno in bandwidth usage than BIC-TCP while maintaining the strengths of BIC-TCP
such as stability, window scalability, and RTT-fairness.

 documents the IETF's best current practices for specifying new congestion control

[RFC5033]
algorithms, specifically those that differ from the general congestion control principles outlined
in
suitability of a new congestion control algorithm and the process of enabling a specification to be
approved for widespread deployment in the global Internet.

. It describes what type of evaluation is expected by the IETF to understand the

[RFC2914]

There are areas in which CUBIC differs from the congestion control algorithms previously
published in Standards Track RFCs; those changes are specified in this document. However, it is
not obvious that these changes go beyond the general congestion control principles outlined in
[RFC2914]

, so the process documented in

 may not apply.

[RFC5033]

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9438

TCP CUBIC

August 2023

Also, the wide deployment of CUBIC on the Internet was driven by direct adoption in most of the
popular operating systems and did not follow the practices documented in
. However,
due to the resulting Internet-scale deployment experience over a long period of time, the IETF
determined that CUBIC could be published as a Standards Track specification. This decision by
the IETF does not alter the general guidance provided in

[RFC2914]
.

[RFC5033]

The following sections

1.

briefly explain the design principles of CUBIC,

2.

provide the exact specification of CUBIC, and

3.

discuss the safety features of CUBIC, following the guidelines specified in

[RFC5033]

.

2.  Conventions

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Design Principles of CUBIC

CUBIC is designed according to the following design principles:

Principle 1:

For better network utilization and stability, CUBIC uses both the concave and

convex profiles of a cubic function to increase the congestion window size, instead of using
just a convex function.

Principle 2:

To be Reno-friendly, CUBIC is designed to behave like Reno in networks with short

RTTs and small bandwidth where Reno performs well.

Principle 3:

For RTT-fairness, CUBIC is designed to achieve linear bandwidth sharing among

flows with different RTTs.

Principle 4:

CUBIC appropriately sets its multiplicative window decrease factor in order to

achieve a balance between scalability and convergence speed.

3.1.  Principle 1 for the CUBIC Increase Function

For better network utilization and stability, CUBIC
function in terms of the elapsed time from the last congestion event. While most congestion
control algorithms that provide alternatives to Reno increase the congestion window using
convex functions, CUBIC uses both the concave and convex profiles of a cubic function for
window growth.

 uses a cubic window increase

[HRX08]

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9438

TCP CUBIC

August 2023

[RFC8985]

, RACK-TLP for TCP

After a window reduction in response to a congestion event detected by duplicate
acknowledgments (ACKs), Explicit Congestion Notification-Echo (ECN-Echo (ECE)) ACKs
[RFC3168]
, CUBIC remembers the
congestion window size at which it received the congestion event and performs a multiplicative
decrease of the congestion window. When CUBIC enters into congestion avoidance, it starts to
increase the congestion window using the concave profile of the cubic function. The cubic
function is set to have its plateau at the remembered congestion window size, so that the concave
window increase continues until then. After that, the cubic function turns into a convex profile
and the convex window increase begins.

, or QUIC loss detection

[RFC9002]

This style of window adjustment (concave and then convex) improves algorithm stability while
maintaining high network utilization
almost constant, forming a plateau around the remembered congestion window size of the last
congestion event, where network utilization is deemed highest. Under steady state, most window
size samples of CUBIC are close to that remembered congestion window size, thus promoting
high network utilization and stability.

. This is because the window size remains

[CEHRX09]

Note that congestion control algorithms that only use convex functions to increase the congestion
window size have their maximum increments around the remembered congestion window size
of the last congestion event and thus introduce many packet bursts around the saturation point
of the network, likely causing frequent global loss synchronizations.

3.2.  Principle 2 for Reno-Friendliness

CUBIC promotes per-flow fairness to Reno. Note that Reno performs well over paths with small
BDPs and only experiences problems when attempting to increase bandwidth utilization on
paths with large BDPs.

A congestion control algorithm designed to be friendly to Reno on a per-flow basis must increase
its congestion window less aggressively in small-BDP networks than in large-BDP networks.

The aggressiveness of CUBIC mainly depends on the maximum window size before a window
reduction, which is smaller in small-BDP networks than in large-BDP networks. Thus, CUBIC
increases its congestion window less aggressively in small-BDP networks than in large-BDP
networks.

Furthermore, in cases when the cubic function of CUBIC would increase the congestion window
less aggressively than Reno, CUBIC simply follows the window size of Reno to ensure that CUBIC
achieves at least the same throughput as Reno in small-BDP networks. The region where CUBIC
behaves like Reno is called the "Reno-friendly region".

3.3.  Principle 3 for RTT-Fairness

Two CUBIC flows with different RTTs have a throughput ratio that is linearly proportional to the
inverse of their RTT ratio, where the throughput of a flow is approximately the size of its
congestion window divided by its RTT.

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9438

TCP CUBIC

August 2023

Specifically, CUBIC maintains a window increase rate that is independent of RTTs outside the
Reno-friendly region, and thus flows with different RTTs have similar congestion window sizes
under steady state when they operate outside the Reno-friendly region.

This notion of a linear throughput ratio is similar to that of Reno under an asynchronous loss
model, where flows with different RTTs have the same packet loss rate but experience loss events
at different times. However, under a synchronous loss model, where flows with different RTTs
experience loss events at the same time but have different packet loss rates, the throughput ratio
of Reno flows with different RTTs is quadratically proportional to the inverse of their RTT ratio
[XHR04]
.

CUBIC always ensures a linear throughput ratio that is independent of the loss environment. This
is an improvement over Reno. While there is no consensus on the optimal throughput ratio for
different RTT flows, over wired Internet paths, use of a linear throughput ratio seems more
reasonable than equal throughputs (i.e., the same throughput for flows with different RTTs) or a
higher-order throughput ratio (e.g., a quadratic throughput ratio of Reno in synchronous loss
environments).

3.4.  Principle 4 for the CUBIC Decrease Factor

To achieve a balance between scalability and convergence speed, CUBIC sets the multiplicative
window decrease factor to 0.7, whereas Reno uses 0.5.

While this improves the scalability of CUBIC, a side effect of this decision is slower convergence,
especially under low statistical multiplexing. This design choice is following the observation that
HighSpeed TCP (HSTCP)
) made: the current Internet
 and other approaches (e.g.,
becomes more asynchronous with less frequent loss synchronizations under high statistical
multiplexing.

[RFC3649]

[GV02]

In such environments, even strict Multiplicative-Increase Multiplicative-Decrease (MIMD) can
converge. CUBIC flows with the same RTT always converge to the same throughput
independently of statistical multiplexing, thus achieving intra-algorithm fairness. In
environments with sufficient statistical multiplexing, the convergence speed of CUBIC is
reasonable.

4.  CUBIC Congestion Control

This section discusses how the congestion window is updated during the different stages of the
CUBIC congestion controller.

4.1.  Definitions

The unit of all window sizes in this document is segments of the SMSS, and the unit of all times is
seconds. Implementations can use bytes to express window sizes, which would require factoring
in the SMSS wherever necessary and replacing segments_acked (Figure 4) with the number of
acknowledged bytes.

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9438

TCP CUBIC

August 2023

4.1.1.  Constants of Interest

•
βcubic: CUBIC multiplicative decrease factor as described in Section 4.6.
•
αcubic: CUBIC additive increase factor used in the Reno-friendly region as described in
Section 4.3.

•

C: Constant that determines the aggressiveness of CUBIC in competing with other congestion
control algorithms in high-BDP networks. Please see Section 5 for more explanation on how
it is set. The unit for C is

4.1.2.  Variables of Interest

This section defines the variables required to implement CUBIC:

•

RTT: Smoothed round-trip time in seconds, calculated as described in

[RFC6298]

.

•

cwnd: Current congestion window in segments.

ssthresh: Current slow start threshold in segments.
•
cwndprior: Size of cwnd in segments at the time of setting ssthresh most recently, either upon
•
exiting the first slow start or just before cwnd was reduced in the last congestion event.
Wmax: Size of cwnd in segments just before cwnd was reduced in the last congestion event
•
when fast convergence is disabled (same as cwndprior on a congestion event). However, if
fast convergence is enabled, Wmax may be further reduced based on the current saturation
point.

K: The time period in seconds it takes to increase the congestion window size at the
•
beginning of the current congestion avoidance stage to Wmax.
tcurrent: Current time of the system in seconds.
•
tepoch: The time in seconds at which the current congestion avoidance stage started.
•
cwndepoch: The cwnd at the beginning of the current congestion avoidance stage, i.e., at time
•
tepoch.
Wcubic(t): The congestion window in segments at time t in seconds based on the cubic
•
increase function, as described in Section 4.2.

target: Target value of the congestion window in segments after the next RTT -- that is,
•
Wcubic(t + RTT), as described in Section 4.2.
West: An estimate for the congestion window in segments in the Reno-friendly region -- that
•
is, an estimate for the congestion window of Reno.

•

segments_acked: Number of SMSS-sized segments acked when a "new ACK" is received, i.e.,
an ACK that cumulatively acknowledges the delivery of previously unacknowledged data.
This number will be a decimal value when a new ACK acknowledges an amount of data that

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9438

TCP CUBIC

August 2023

is not SMSS-sized. Specifically, it can be less than 1 when a new ACK acknowledges a segment
smaller than the SMSS.

4.2.  Window Increase Function

CUBIC maintains the ACK clocking of Reno by increasing the congestion window only at the
reception of a new ACK. It does not make any changes to the TCP Fast Recovery and Fast
[RFC6582] [RFC6675]
.
Retransmit algorithms

During congestion avoidance, after a congestion event is detected as described in Section 3.1,
CUBIC uses a window increase function different from Reno.

CUBIC uses the following window increase function:

Figure 1

where t is the elapsed time in seconds from the beginning of the current congestion avoidance
stage -- that is,

and where tepoch is the time at which the current congestion avoidance stage starts.  K is the time
period that the above function takes to increase the congestion window size at the beginning of
the current congestion avoidance stage to Wmax if there are no further congestion events.  K is
calculated using the following equation:

Figure 2

where cwndepoch is the congestion window at the beginning of the current congestion avoidance
stage.

Upon receiving a new ACK during congestion avoidance, CUBIC computes the target congestion
window size after the next RTT using Figure 1 as follows, where RTT is the smoothed round-trip
time. The lower and upper bounds below ensure that CUBIC's congestion window increase rate is
non-decreasing and is less than the increase rate of slow start

[SXEZ19]
.

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9438

TCP CUBIC

August 2023

The elapsed time t in Figure 1
updated due to application-limited behavior (see Section 5.8).

MUST NOT

 include periods during which cwnd has not been

Depending on the value of the current congestion window size cwnd, CUBIC runs in three
different regions:

1.

2.

3.

The Reno-friendly region, which ensures that CUBIC achieves at least the same throughput as
Reno.
The concave region, if CUBIC is not in the Reno-friendly region and cwnd is less than Wmax.
The convex region, if CUBIC is not in the Reno-friendly region and cwnd is greater than
Wmax.

To summarize, CUBIC computes both Wcubic(t) and West (see Section 4.3) on receiving a new ACK
in congestion avoidance and chooses the larger of the two values.

The next sections describe the exact actions taken by CUBIC in each region.

4.3.  Reno-Friendly Region

Reno performs well in certain types of networks -- for example, under short RTTs and small
bandwidths (or small BDPs). In these networks, CUBIC remains in the Reno-friendly region to
achieve at least the same throughput as Reno.

The Reno-friendly region is designed according to the analysis discussed in
studies the performance of an AIMD algorithm with an additive factor of α (segments per RTT)
and a multiplicative factor of β, denoted by AIMD(α, β).  p is the packet loss rate. Specifically, the
average congestion window size of AIMD(α, β) can be calculated using Figure 3.

[FHP00]

, which

Figure 3

By the same analysis, to achieve an average window size similar to Reno that uses AIMD(1, 0.5), α
must be equal to

Thus, CUBIC uses Figure 4 to estimate the window size West in the Reno-friendly region with

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9438

TCP CUBIC

August 2023

which achieves approximately the same average window size as Reno in many cases. The model
used to calculate αcubic is not absolutely precise, but analysis and simulation as discussed in
[AIMD-friendliness]
, as well as over a decade of experience with CUBIC in the public Internet,
show that this approach produces acceptable levels of rate fairness between CUBIC and Reno
flows. Also, no significant drawbacks of the model have been reported. However, continued
detailed analysis of this approach would be beneficial. When receiving a new ACK in congestion
avoidance (where cwnd could be greater than or less than Wmax), CUBIC checks whether
Wcubic(t) is less than West.  If so, CUBIC is in the Reno-friendly region and cwnd
SHOULD
West at each reception of a new ACK.

 be set to

West is set equal to cwndepoch at the start of the congestion avoidance stage. After that, on every
new ACK, West is updated using Figure 4. Note that this equation uses segments_acked and cwnd
is measured in segments. An implementation that measures cwnd in bytes should adjust the
equation accordingly using the number of acknowledged bytes and the SMSS. Also note that this
equation works for connections with enabled or disabled delayed ACKs
segments_acked will be different based on the segments actually acknowledged by a new ACK.

[RFC5681]

, as

Figure 4

Once West has grown to reach the cwnd at the time of most recently setting ssthresh -- that is,
West >= cwndprior -- the sender
 set αcubic to 1 to ensure that it can achieve the same
congestion window increment rate as Reno, which uses AIMD(1, 0.5).

SHOULD

The next two sections assume that CUBIC is not in the Reno-friendly region and uses the window
increase function described in Section 4.2. Although cwnd is incremented in the same way for
both concave and convex regions, they are discussed separately to analyze and understand the
difference between the two regions.

4.4.  Concave Region

When receiving a new ACK in congestion avoidance, if CUBIC is not in the Reno-friendly region
and cwnd is less than Wmax, then CUBIC is in the concave region. In this region, cwnd
 be
incremented by

MUST

for each received new ACK, where target is calculated as described in Section 4.2.

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9438

TCP CUBIC

August 2023

4.5.  Convex Region

When receiving a new ACK in congestion avoidance, if CUBIC is not in the Reno-friendly region
and cwnd is larger than or equal to Wmax, then CUBIC is in the convex region.

The convex region indicates that the network conditions might have changed since the last
congestion event, possibly implying more available bandwidth after some flow departures. Since
the Internet is highly asynchronous, some amount of perturbation is always possible without
causing a major change in available bandwidth.

Unless the cwnd is overridden by the AIMD window increase, CUBIC will behave cautiously
when operating in this region. The convex profile aims to increase the window very slowly at the
beginning when cwnd is around Wmax and then gradually increases its rate of increase. This
region is also called the "maximum probing phase", since CUBIC is searching for a new Wmax.  In
this region, cwnd

 be incremented by

MUST

for each received new ACK, where target is calculated as described in Section 4.2.

4.6.  Multiplicative Decrease

When a congestion event is detected by the mechanisms described in Section 3.1, CUBIC updates
Wmax and reduces cwnd and ssthresh immediately, as described below. In the case of packet loss,
 reduce cwnd and ssthresh immediately upon entering loss recovery, similar to
the sender
[RFC6675]
[RFC5681]
[RFC6937]
parameter βcubic
[RFC5681]
used in

MUST
 (and
, can be used to reduce the sending rate during loss recovery more gradually. The

 be set to 0.7, which is different from the multiplicative decrease factor

). Note that other mechanisms, such as Proportional Rate Reduction

) during fast recovery.

[RFC6675]

SHOULD

 (and

[RFC5681]

. Note that a rate-limited application with idle periods or periods when

In Figure 5, flight_size is the amount of outstanding (unacknowledged) data in the network, as
defined in
unable to send at the full rate permitted by cwnd could easily encounter notable variations in the
volume of data sent from one RTT to another, resulting in flight_size that is significantly less than
cwnd when there is a congestion event. The congestion response would therefore decrease cwnd
to a much lower value than necessary. To avoid such suboptimal performance, the mechanisms
described in
ssthresh during a rate-limited interval, and how to update cwnd and ssthresh after congestion
has been detected. The mechanisms defined in
greater than the receive window, because they validate cwnd based on the amount of data
acknowledged by the network in an RTT, which implicitly accounts for the allowed receive
window.

 describes how to manage and use cwnd and

 are safe to use even when cwnd is

 can be used.

[RFC7661]

[RFC7661]

[RFC7661]

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9438

TCP CUBIC

August 2023

Some implementations of CUBIC currently use cwnd instead of flight_size when calculating a new
ssthresh.  Implementations that use cwnd
growing when the volume of bytes in flight is smaller than cwnd.  This also effectively prevents
cwnd from growing beyond the receive window. Such measures are important for preventing a
CUBIC sender from using an arbitrarily high cwnd value when calculating new values for
ssthresh and cwnd when congestion is detected. This might not be as robust as the mechanisms
described in

 use other measures to prevent cwnd from

[RFC7661]
.

MUST

A QUIC sender that uses a cwnd value to calculate new values for cwnd and ssthresh after
detecting a congestion event is

 to apply similar mechanisms

[RFC9002]
.

REQUIRED

Figure 5

A side effect of setting βcubic to a value bigger than 0.5 is that packet loss can happen for more
than one RTT in certain cases, but it can work efficiently in other cases -- for example, when
HyStart++
application. While a more adaptive setting of βcubic could help limit packet loss to a single round,
it would require detailed analyses and large-scale evaluations to validate such algorithms.

 is used along with CUBIC or when the sending rate is limited by the

[RFC9406]

MUST

 continue to reduce cwnd in response to congestion events detected by
Note that CUBIC
ECN-Echo ACKs until it reaches a value of 1 SMSS. If congestion events indicated by ECN-Echo
ACKs persist, a sender with a cwnd of 1 SMSS
be achieved by using a retransmission timer with exponential backoff, as described in

 reduce its sending rate even further. This can
[RFC3168]
.

MUST

4.7.  Fast Convergence

To improve convergence speed, CUBIC uses a heuristic. When a new flow joins the network,
existing flows need to give up some of their bandwidth to allow the new flow some room for
growth if the existing flows have been using all the network bandwidth. To speed up this
bandwidth release by existing flows, the following fast convergence mechanism
SHOULD
implemented.

 be

With fast convergence, when a congestion event occurs, Wmax is updated as follows, before the
window reduction described in Section 4.6.

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9438

TCP CUBIC

August 2023

During a congestion event, if the current cwnd is less than Wmax, this indicates that the
saturation point experienced by this flow is getting reduced because of a change in available
bandwidth. This flow can then release more bandwidth by reducing Wmax further. This action
effectively lengthens the time for this flow to increase its congestion window, because the
reduced Wmax forces the flow to plateau earlier. This allows more time for the new flow to catch
up to its congestion window size.

Fast convergence is designed for network environments with multiple CUBIC flows. In network
environments with only a single CUBIC flow and without any other traffic, fast convergence
SHOULD

 be disabled.

4.8.  Timeout

In the case of a timeout, CUBIC follows Reno to reduce cwnd
[RFC5681]
βcubic (same as in Section 4.6) in a way that is different from Reno TCP

 but sets ssthresh using
[RFC5681]
.

During the first congestion avoidance stage after a timeout, CUBIC increases its congestion
window size using Figure 1, where t is the elapsed time since the beginning of the current
congestion avoidance stage, K is set to 0, and Wmax is set to the congestion window size at the
beginning of the current congestion avoidance stage. In addition, for the Reno-friendly region,
West
avoidance stage.

 be set to the congestion window size at the beginning of the current congestion

SHOULD

4.9.  Spurious Congestion Events

In cases where CUBIC reduces its congestion window in response to having detected packet loss
via duplicate ACKs or timeouts, it is possible that the missing ACK could arrive after the
congestion window reduction and a corresponding packet retransmission. For example, packet
reordering could trigger this behavior. A high degree of packet reordering could cause multiple
congestion window reduction events, where spurious losses are incorrectly interpreted as
congestion signals, thus degrading CUBIC's performance significantly.

For TCP, there are two types of spurious events: spurious timeouts and spurious fast retransmits.
In the case of QUIC, there are no spurious timeouts, as the loss is only detected after receiving an
ACK.

4.9.1.  Spurious Timeouts

 detect spurious timeouts based on the mechanisms described in
[RFC5682]

. Experimental alternatives include the Eifel detection

An implementation
MAY
Forward RTO-Recovery
[RFC3522]
algorithm
response algorithm described in
retransmission timer to avoid further spurious timeouts.

[RFC4015]

. When a spurious timeout is detected, a TCP implementation

MAY

 follow the

 to restore the congestion control state and adapt the

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9438

TCP CUBIC

August 2023

4.9.2.  Spurious Fast Retransmits

Upon receiving an ACK, a TCP implementation
TCP Timestamps or via D-SACK
Eifel detection algorithm
[RFC3708]
spurious fast retransmit if a QUIC packet is acknowledged after it has been marked as lost and
the original data has been retransmitted with a new QUIC packet.

 detect spurious fast retransmits either using
. As noted above, experimental alternatives include the

, which uses DSACK information. A QUIC implementation can easily determine a

, which uses TCP Timestamps; and DSACK-based detection

[RFC2883]

[RFC3522]

MAY

This section specifies a simple response algorithm when a spurious fast retransmit is detected by
acknowledgments. Implementations would need to carefully evaluate the impact of using this
algorithm in different environments that may experience a sudden change in available capacity
(e.g., due to variable radio capacity, a routing change, or a mobility event).

When packet loss is detected via acknowledgments, a CUBIC implementation
MAY
current value of the following variables before the congestion window is reduced.

 save the

Once the previously declared packet loss is confirmed to be spurious, CUBIC
original values of the above-mentioned variables as follows if the current cwnd is lower than
cwndprior.  Restoring the original values ensures that CUBIC's performance is similar to what it
would be without spurious losses.

 restore the

MAY

In rare cases, when the detection happens long after a spurious fast retransmit event and the
current cwnd is already higher than cwndprior, CUBIC
the most recent values of these variables.

 continue to use the current and

SHOULD

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9438

TCP CUBIC

August 2023

4.10.  Slow Start

MUST

 employ a slow start algorithm. In general,

 use the HyStart++ slow start algorithm
[RFC5681]

When cwnd is no more than ssthresh, CUBIC
CUBIC
SHOULD
start algorithm
[HR11]
alternatives include hybrid slow start
[RFC3742]
implementations have used as the default for the last decade, and limited slow start
.
Whichever startup algorithm is used, work might be needed to ensure that the end of slow start
and the first multiplicative decrease of congestion avoidance work well together.

 in the rare cases when HyStart++ is not suitable. Experimental

, a predecessor to HyStart++ that some CUBIC

 use the Reno TCP slow

[RFC9406] MAY

 or

[RFC9406]

When CUBIC uses HyStart++
, it may exit the first slow start without incurring any
packet loss and thus Wmax is undefined. In this special case, CUBIC sets cwndprior = cwnd and
switches to congestion avoidance. It then increases its congestion window size using Figure 1,
where t is the elapsed time since the beginning of the current congestion avoidance stage, K is set
to 0, and Wmax is set to the congestion window size at the beginning of the current congestion
avoidance stage.

5.  Discussion

This section further discusses the safety features of CUBIC, following the guidelines specified in
[RFC5033]
.

With a deterministic loss model where the number of packets between two successive packet
losses is always 1/p, CUBIC always operates with the concave window profile, which greatly
simplifies the performance analysis of CUBIC. The average window size of CUBIC (see Appendix
B) can be obtained via the following function:

Figure 6

With βcubic set to 0.7, the above formula reduces to

Figure 7

The following subsection will determine the value of C using Figure 7.

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9438

TCP CUBIC

August 2023

5.1.  Fairness to Reno

In environments where Reno is able to make reasonable use of the available bandwidth, CUBIC
does not significantly change this state.

Reno performs well in the following two types of networks:

1.

networks with a small bandwidth-delay product (BDP)

2.

networks with short RTTs, but not necessarily a small BDP

CUBIC is designed to behave very similarly to Reno in the above two types of networks. The
following two tables show the average window sizes of Reno TCP, HSTCP, and CUBIC TCP. The
average window sizes of Reno TCP and HSTCP are from
CUBIC is calculated using Figure 7 and the CUBIC Reno-friendly region for three different values
of C.

. The average window size of

[RFC3649]

Loss Rate P

Reno HSTCP

CUBIC (C=0.04)

CUBIC (C=0.4)

CUBIC (C=4)

1.0e-02

1.0e-03

1.0e-04

1.0e-05

12

38

120

379

12

38

263

1795

1.0e-06

1200

12280

1.0e-07

3795

83981

12

38

120

593

3332

18740

12

38

187

1054

5926

33325

12

59

333

1874

10538

59261

1.0e-08

12000

574356

105383

187400

333250

Table 1: Reno TCP, HSTCP, and CUBIC with RTT = 0.1 Seconds

Table 1 describes the response function of Reno TCP, HSTCP, and CUBIC in networks with RTT =
0.1 seconds. The average window size is in SMSS-sized segments.

Loss Rate P

Reno HSTCP

CUBIC (C=0.04)

CUBIC (C=0.4)

CUBIC (C=4)

1.0e-02

1.0e-03

1.0e-04

1.0e-05

12

38

120

379

12

38

263

1795

12

38

120

379

12

38

120

379

12

38

120

379

1.0e-06

1200

12280

1200

1200

1874

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9438

TCP CUBIC

August 2023

Loss Rate P

Reno HSTCP

CUBIC (C=0.04)

CUBIC (C=0.4)

CUBIC (C=4)

1.0e-07

3795

83981

1.0e-08

12000

574356

3795

18740

5926

33325

10538

59261

Table 2: Reno TCP, HSTCP, and CUBIC with RTT = 0.01 Seconds

Table 2 describes the response function of Reno TCP, HSTCP, and CUBIC in networks with RTT =
0.01 seconds. The average window size is in SMSS-sized segments.

Both tables show that CUBIC with any of these three C values is more friendly to Reno TCP than
HSTCP, especially in networks with a short RTT where Reno TCP performs reasonably well. For
example, in a network with RTT = 0.01 seconds and p=10-6, Reno TCP has an average window of
1200 packets. If the packet size is 1500 bytes, then Reno TCP can achieve an average rate of 1.44
Gbps. In this case, CUBIC with C=0.04 or C=0.4 achieves exactly the same rate as Reno TCP,
whereas HSTCP is about ten times more aggressive than Reno TCP.

NOT
 to set C to a very low value like 0.04, since CUBIC with a low C cannot efficiently

C determines the aggressiveness of CUBIC in competing with other congestion control algorithms
for bandwidth. CUBIC is more friendly to Reno TCP if the value of C is lower. However, it is
RECOMMENDED
use the bandwidth in fast and long-distance networks. Based on these observations and
extensive deployment experience, C=0.4 seems to provide a good balance between Reno-
friendliness and aggressiveness of window increase. Therefore, C
set to 0.4, Figure 7 is reduced to

 be set to 0.4. With C

SHOULD

Figure 8

Figure 8 is then used in the next subsection to show the scalability of CUBIC.

5.2.  Using Spare Capacity

CUBIC uses a more aggressive window increase function than Reno for fast and long-distance
networks.

Table 3 shows that to achieve the 10 Gbps rate, Reno TCP requires a packet loss rate of 2.0e-10,
while CUBIC TCP requires a packet loss rate of 2.9e-8.

Throughput (Mbps) Average W Reno P HSTCP P

CUBIC P

1

10

8.3

2.0e-2

2.0e-2

2.0e-2

83.3

2.0e-4

3.9e-4

2.9e-4

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9438

TCP CUBIC

August 2023

Throughput (Mbps) Average W Reno P HSTCP P

CUBIC P

100

1000

833.3

2.0e-6

2.5e-5

1.4e-5

8333.3

2.0e-8

1.5e-6

6.3e-7

10000

83333.3

2.0e-10

1.0e-7

2.9e-8

Table 3: Required Packet Loss Rate for Reno TCP, HSTCP, and CUBIC to
Achieve a Certain Throughput

Table 3 describes the required packet loss rate for Reno TCP, HSTCP, and CUBIC to achieve a
certain throughput, with 1500-byte packets and an RTT of 0.1 seconds.

The test results provided in
traffic, CUBIC uses the spare bandwidth left unused by existing Reno TCP flows in the same
bottleneck link without taking away much bandwidth from the existing flows.

 indicate that, in typical cases with a degree of background

[HLRX07]

5.3.  Difficult Environments

CUBIC is designed to remedy the poor performance of Reno in fast and long-distance networks.

5.4.  Investigating a Range of Environments

CUBIC has been extensively studied using simulations, testbed emulations, Internet experiments,
and Internet measurements, covering a wide range of network environments
[CEHRX09] [HR11] [BSCLU13] [LBEWK16]
delivers substantial benefits over classical Reno congestion control

. They have convincingly demonstrated that CUBIC

[HLRX07] [H16]

[RFC5681]
.

Same as Reno, CUBIC is a loss-based congestion control algorithm. Because CUBIC is designed to
be more aggressive (due to a faster window increase function and bigger multiplicative decrease
factor) than Reno in fast and long-distance networks, it can fill large drop-tail buffers more
. In this case, proper
quickly than Reno and increases the risk of a standing queue
queue sizing and management
reduce the packet queuing delay. Also, in large-BDP networks after a congestion event, CUBIC,
due to its cubic window increase function, recovers quickly to the highest link utilization point.
This means that link utilization is less sensitive to an active queue management (AQM) target
that is lower than the amplitude of the whole sawtooth.

 could be used to mitigate the risk to some extent and

[RFC8511]

[RFC7567]

Similar to Reno, the performance of CUBIC as a loss-based congestion control algorithm suffers in
networks where packet loss is not a good indication of bandwidth utilization, such as wireless or
mobile networks

[LIU16]
.

5.5.  Protection against Congestion Collapse

With regard to the potential of causing congestion collapse, CUBIC behaves like Reno, since
CUBIC modifies only the window adjustment algorithm of Reno. Thus, it does not modify the ACK
clocking and timeout behaviors of Reno.

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9438

TCP CUBIC

August 2023

. After reducing the
CUBIC also satisfies the "full backoff" requirement as described in
sending rate to one packet per RTT in response to congestion events detected by ECN-Echo ACKs,
CUBIC then exponentially increases the transmission timer for each packet retransmission while
congestion persists.

[RFC5033]

5.6.  Fairness within the Alternative Congestion Control Algorithm

CUBIC ensures convergence of competing CUBIC flows with the same RTT in the same bottleneck
links to an equal throughput. When competing flows have different RTT values, their throughput
ratio is linearly proportional to the inverse of their RTT ratios. This is true and is independent of
the level of statistical multiplexing on the link. The convergence time depends on the network
environments (e.g., bandwidth, RTT) and the level of statistical multiplexing, as mentioned in
Section 3.4.

5.7.  Performance with Misbehaving Nodes and Outside Attackers

CUBIC does not introduce new entities or signals, so its vulnerability to misbehaving nodes or
attackers is unchanged from Reno.

5.8.  Behavior for Application-Limited Flows

A flow is application limited if it is currently sending less than what is allowed by the congestion
window. This can happen if the flow is limited by either the sender application or the receiver
application (via the receiver's advertised window) and thus sends less data than what is allowed
by the sender's congestion window.

CUBIC does not increase its congestion window if a flow is application limited. Per Section 4.2, it
is required that t in Figure 1 not include application-limited periods, such as idle periods;
otherwise, Wcubic(t) might be very high after restarting from these periods.

5.9.  Responses to Sudden or Transient Events

If there is a sudden increase in capacity, e.g., due to variable radio capacity, a routing change, or
a mobility event, CUBIC is designed to utilize the newly available capacity more quickly than
Reno.

On the other hand, if there is a sudden decrease in capacity, CUBIC reduces more slowly than
Reno. This remains true regardless of whether CUBIC is in Reno-friendly mode and regardless of
whether fast convergence is enabled.

5.10.  Incremental Deployment

CUBIC requires only changes to congestion control at the sender, and it does not require any
changes at receivers. That is, a CUBIC sender works correctly with Reno receivers. In addition,
CUBIC does not require any changes to routers and does not require any assistance from routers.

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9438

TCP CUBIC

August 2023

6.  Security Considerations

CUBIC makes no changes to the underlying security of a transport protocol and inherits the
[RFC5681]
general security concerns described in
computation on the sender may allow an attacker, through dropping or injecting ACKs (as
described in
convince it that there is no congestion when congestion does exist, and to use the CUBIC
implementation as an attack vector against other hosts. These attacks are not new to CUBIC and
are inherently part of any transport protocol like TCP.

), to either force the CUBIC implementation to reduce its bandwidth or

. Specifically, changing the window

[RFC5681]

7.  IANA Considerations

This document does not require any IANA actions.

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC2883]

[RFC2914]

[RFC3168]

[RFC4015]

[RFC5033]

[RFC5348]

[RFC5681]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Floyd, S. Mahdavi, J. Mathis, M.
Acknowledgement (SACK) Option for TCP" RFC 2883 DOI 10.17487/RFC2883
July 2000,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2883>

M. Podolsky "An Extension to the Selective

, and

,
.

,

,

,

,

Floyd, S. "Congestion Control Principles" BCP 41 RFC 2914 DOI 10.17487/
,
RFC2914
, September 2000,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2914>

.

,

,

,

Ramakrishnan, K. Floyd, S.
Notification (ECN) to IP" RFC 3168 DOI 10.17487/RFC3168
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3168>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

D. Black "The Addition of Explicit Congestion

, September 2001,

Ludwig, R.
10.17487/RFC4015

A. Gurtov "The Eifel Response Algorithm for TCP" RFC 4015 DOI

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4015>
.

,
, February 2005,

 and

,

 and

Floyd, S.
133 RFC 5033 DOI 10.17487/RFC5033
,
info/rfc5033>

M. Allman "Specifying New Congestion Control Algorithms" BCP
,
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, August 2007,

,

,

,

Floyd, S. Handley, M. Padhye, J.
(TFRC): Protocol Specification" RFC 5348 DOI 10.17487/RFC5348
,
2008,

J. Widmer "TCP Friendly Rate Control
, September

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5348>

, and

,

,

,

.

Allman, M. Paxson, V.
,
10.17487/RFC5681

, September 2009,

E. Blanton "TCP Congestion Control" RFC 5681 DOI
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5681>

,

,

,

, and

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9438

TCP CUBIC

August 2023

[RFC5682]

[RFC6298]

[RFC6582]

[RFC6675]

[RFC7567]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8985]

[RFC9002]

[RFC9406]

,

,

Sarolahti, P. Kojo, M. Yamamoto, K.
, and
RTO): An Algorithm for Detecting Spurious Retransmission Timeouts with TCP"
RFC 5682 DOI 10.17487/RFC5682
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/
info/rfc5682>

M. Hata "Forward RTO-Recovery (F-

, September 2009,

,

,

.

,

,

Paxson, V. Allman, M. Chu, J.
Timer" RFC 6298 DOI 10.17487/RFC6298
,
info/rfc6298>

, and

,

,

.

M. Sargent "Computing TCP's Retransmission
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

,
, June 2011,

,

Henderson, T. Floyd, S. Gurtov, A.
, and
to TCP's Fast Recovery Algorithm" RFC 6582 DOI 10.17487/RFC6582
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6582>

,

,

.

Y. Nishida "The NewReno Modification

,

, April 2012,

,

,

Blanton, E. Allman, M. Wang, L. Jarvinen, I. Kojo, M.
Conservative Loss Recovery Algorithm Based on Selective Acknowledgment
(SACK) for TCP" RFC 6675 DOI 10.17487/RFC6675
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6675>

, August 2012,

Y. Nishida "A

<https://

, and

,

,

,

,

.

 and

Baker, F., Ed.
Queue Management" BCP 197 RFC 7567 DOI 10.17487/RFC7567
,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7567>
.

G. Fairhurst, Ed. "IETF Recommendations Regarding Active

, July 2015,

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Cheng, Y. Cardwell, N. Dukkipati, N.
Algorithm for TCP" RFC 8985 DOI 10.17487/RFC8985
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8985>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

P. Jha "The RACK-TLP Loss Detection
, February 2021,

<https://

Iyengar, J., Ed.
,
 and
RFC 9002 DOI 10.17487/RFC9002
rfc9002>

,
.

I. Swett, Ed. "QUIC Loss Detection and Congestion Control"
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2021,

,

Balasubramanian, P. Huang, Y.
,
for TCP" RFC 9406 DOI 10.17487/RFC9406
editor.org/info/rfc9406>

, and

,

,

.

M. Olson "HyStart++: Modified Slow Start

,

, May 2023,

<https://www.rfc-

8.2.  Informative References

[AIMD-friendliness]

Briscoe, B.

 and

O. Albisser "Friendliness between AIMD Algorithms" DOI

,

10.48550/arXiv.2305.10581

<https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.10581>

.

,
, May 2023,

[BSCLU13]

,

,

Belhareth, S. Sassatelli, L. Collange, D. Lopez-Pacheco, D.
,
G. Urvoy-Keller
"Understanding TCP cubic performance in the cloud: A mean-field approach"
,
2013 IEEE 2nd International Conference on Cloud Networking (CloudNet) DOI
10.1109/cloudnet.2013.6710576
, November 2013,
cloudnet.2013.6710576>

<https://doi.org/10.1109/

, and

.

,

,

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9438

TCP CUBIC

August 2023

[CEHRX09]

[FHP00]

[GV02]

[H16]

[HLRX07]

[HR11]

[HRX08]

[K03]

[LBEWK16]

[LIU16]

[RFC3522]

[RFC3649]

,

,

Cai, H. Eun, D. Ha, S. Rhee, I.
,
multiplicative decrease internet congestion control" Computer Networks, vol.
53, no. 3, pp. 365-381 DOI 10.1016/j.comnet.2008.10.012
doi.org/10.1016/j.comnet.2008.10.012>

L. Xu "Stochastic convex ordering for

, February 2009,

, and

,

,

,

.

<https://

,

Floyd, S. Handley, M.
, and
AIMD Congestion Control"

J. Padhye "A Comparison of Equation-Based and
,
<https://www.icir.org/tfrc/aimd.pdf>
, May 2000,
.

,

 and

H. Vin "Extended Analysis of Binary Adjustment Algorithms"

Gorinsky, S.
,
Technical Report TR2002-39, Department of Computer Sciences, The University
of Texas at Austin
repid=rep1&type=pdf&doi=1828bdcef118b02d3996b8e00b8aaa92b50abb0f>

<https://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/document?

, August 2002,

.

,

Ha, S. "Deployment, Testbed, and Simulation Results for CUBIC" Wayback
Machine archive
20161118125842/http://netsrv.csc.ncsu.edu/wiki/index.php/TCP_Testing>

<https://web.archive.org/web/

, 3 November 2016,

,

.

,

,

, and

Ha, S. Le, L. Rhee, I.
of high-speed TCP variant protocols" Computer Networks, vol. 51, no. 7, pp.
,
1748-1762 DOI 10.1016/j.comnet.2006.11.005
,
j.comnet.2006.11.005>
.

L. Xu "Impact of background traffic on performance

<https://doi.org/10.1016/

, May 2007,

,

 and

I. Rhee "Taming the elephants: New TCP slow start" Computer
Ha, S.
Networks, vol. 55, no. 9, pp. 2092-2110 DOI 10.1016/j.comnet.2011.01.014
2011,

<https://doi.org/10.1016/j.comnet.2011.01.014>

,

,

,

.

, June

, and

Ha, S. Rhee, I.
,
ACM SIGOPS Operating Systems Review, vol. 42, no. 5, pp. 64-74 DOI
10.1145/1400097.1400105

L. Xu "CUBIC: a new TCP-friendly high-speed TCP variant"

<https://doi.org/10.1145/1400097.1400105>

, July 2008,

,

,

,

.

,

Kelly, T. "Scalable TCP: improving performance in highspeed wide area
networks" ACM SIGCOMM Computer Communication Review, vol. 33, no. 2, pp.
83-91 DOI 10.1145/956981.956989
, April 2003,
10.1145/956981.956989>

<https://doi.org/

,

,

.

,

Lukaseder, T. Bradatsch, L. Erb, B. Van Der Heijden, R.
,
Comparison of TCP Congestion Control Algorithms in 10G Networks" 2016 IEEE
41st Conference on Local Computer Networks (LCN) DOI 10.1109/lcn.2016.121
,
November 2016,

<https://doi.org/10.1109/lcn.2016.121>

F. Kargl "A

, and

,
,

,

,

.

,

 and

J. Lee "On Improving TCP Performance over Mobile Data Networks"

Liu, K.
IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing, vol. 15, no. 10, pp. 2522-2536 DOI
10.1109/tmc.2015.2500227
2015.2500227>

<https://doi.org/10.1109/tmc.

, October 2016,

,

.

,

Ludwig, R.
10.17487/RFC3522

 and

M. Meyer "The Eifel Detection Algorithm for TCP" RFC 3522 DOI

,

,

,

, April 2003,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3522>

.

Floyd, S. "HighSpeed TCP for Large Congestion Windows" RFC 3649 DOI
,
10.17487/RFC3649

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3649>

, December 2003,

,

,

.

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9438

TCP CUBIC

August 2023

[RFC3708]

[RFC3742]

[RFC6937]

[RFC7661]

[RFC8312]

[RFC8511]

[RFC9000]

[RFC9260]

[SXEZ19]

[XHR04]

,

 and

M. Allman "Using TCP Duplicate Selective Acknowledgement

Blanton, E.
(DSACKs) and Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP) Duplicate
Transmission Sequence Numbers (TSNs) to Detect Spurious Retransmissions"
RFC 3708 DOI 10.17487/RFC3708
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/
info/rfc3708>

, February 2004,

,

.

,

,

Floyd, S. "Limited Slow-Start for TCP with Large Congestion Windows" RFC
3742 DOI 10.17487/RFC3742
,
rfc3742>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, March 2004,

,

.

,

Mathis, M. Dukkipati, N.
RFC 6937 DOI 10.17487/RFC6937
rfc6937>

, and

,
.

Y. Cheng "Proportional Rate Reduction for TCP"
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,
, May 2013,

,

,

Fairhurst, G. Sathiaseelan, A.
Limited Traffic" RFC 7661 DOI 10.17487/RFC7661
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7661>

, and

,

.

R. Secchi "Updating TCP to Support Rate-

,

, October 2015,

<https://

,

,

Rhee, I. Xu, L. Ha, S. Zimmermann, A. Eggert, L.
for Fast Long-Distance Networks" RFC 8312 DOI 10.17487/RFC8312
,
2018,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8312>

, and

,

,

,

.

R. Scheffenegger "CUBIC

,
, February

,

Khademi, N. Welzl, M. Armitage, G.
with ECN (ABE)" RFC 8511 DOI 10.17487/RFC8511
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8511>

, and

,

,

.

G. Fairhurst "TCP Alternative Backoff

,

, December 2018,

<https://

Iyengar, J., Ed.
Secure Transport" RFC 9000 DOI 10.17487/RFC9000
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9000>

 and
,

,

,

.

M. Thomson, Ed. "QUIC: A UDP-Based Multiplexed and

, May 2021,

<https://

Stewart, R. Tüxen, M.
,
RFC 9260 DOI 10.17487/RFC9260
rfc9260>

, and

,
.

,
, June 2022,

K. Nielsen "Stream Control Transmission Protocol"

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

, and

D. Zhao "Model-Agnostic and Efficient

Sun, W. Xu, L. Elbaum, S.
Exploration of Numerical Congestion Control State Space of Real-World TCP
Implementations" IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking, vol. 29, no. 5, pp.
1990-2004 DOI 10.1109/tnet.2021.3078161
10.1109/tnet.2021.3078161>

<https://doi.org/

, October 2021,

,

,

,

.

,

Xu, L. Harfoush, K.
fast long-distance networks" IEEE INFOCOM 2004 DOI 10.1109/infcom.
2004.1354672

I. Rhee "Binary increase congestion control (BIC) for
,
,
<https://doi.org/10.1109/infcom.2004.1354672>

, March 2004,

, and

.

,

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9438

TCP CUBIC

August 2023

Appendix A.  Evolution of CUBIC since the Original Paper

CUBIC has gone through a few changes since the initial release
implementation. This appendix highlights the differences between the original paper and
[RFC8312]
.

 of its algorithm and

[HRX08]

•

 includes the pseudocode of CUBIC implementation using Linux's
The original paper
pluggable congestion control framework, which excludes system-specific optimizations. The
simplified pseudocode might be a good starting point for learning about CUBIC.

[HRX08]

• [HRX08]

 also includes experimental results showing its performance and fairness.

•
The definition of the βcubic constant was changed in
original paper was referred to as the window decrease constant, while
 changed it
to "CUBIC multiplicative decrease factor". With this change, the current congestion window
 was βcubic * Wmax, while it was (1-βcubic)
[RFC8312]
size after a congestion event as listed in

. For example, βcubic in the
[RFC8312]

[RFC8312]

* Wmax in the original paper.
Its pseudocode used Wlast_max, while
•
Its AIMD-friendly window was Wtcp, while
•

[RFC8312]

 used Wmax.

[RFC8312]

 used West.

Appendix B.  Proof of the Average CUBIC Window Size

This appendix contains a proof for the average CUBIC window size AVG_Wcubic in Figure 6.

We find AVG_Wcubic under a deterministic loss model, where the number of packets between
two successive packet losses is 1/p.  With this model, CUBIC always operates with the concave
window profile and the time period between two successive packet losses is K.

The average window size AVG_Wcubic is defined as follows, where the numerator 1/p is the total
number of packets between two successive packet losses and the denominator K/RTT is the total
number of RTTs between two successive packet losses.

Figure 9

Below, we find K as a function of CUBIC parameters βcubic and C, and network parameters p and
RTT.  According to the definition of K in Figure 2, we have

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9438

TCP CUBIC

August 2023

Figure 10

The total number of packets between two successive packet losses can also be obtained as
follows, using the window increase function in Figure 1. Specifically, the window size in the first
RTT (i.e., n=1, or equivalently, t=0) is C(-K)3+Wmax and the window size in the last RTT (i.e., n=K/
RTT, or equivalently, t=K-RTT) is C(-RTT)3+Wmax.

Figure 11

After solving the equations in Figures 10 and 11 for K and Wmax, we have

Figure 12

The average CUBIC window size AVG_Wcubic can be obtained by substituting K from Figure 12 in
Figure 9.

Acknowledgments

Richard Scheffenegger

 and

Alexander Zimmermann

 originally coauthored

[RFC8312]
.

These individuals suggested improvements to this document:

• Bob Briscoe

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9438

TCP CUBIC

August 2023

• Christian Huitema

• Gorry Fairhurst

• Jonathan Morton

• Juhamatti Kuusisaari

• Junho Choi

• Markku Kojo

• Martin Duke

• Martin Thomson

• Matt Mathis

• Matt Olson

• Michael Welzl

• Mirja Kühlewind

• Mohit P. Tahiliani

• Neal Cardwell

• Praveen Balasubramanian

• Randall Stewart

• Richard Scheffenegger

• Rod Grimes

• Spencer Dawkins

• Tom Henderson

• Tom Petch

• Wesley Rosenblum

• Yoav Nir

• Yoshifumi Nishida

• Yuchung Cheng

Authors' Addresses

Lisong Xu
University of Nebraska-Lincoln
Department of Computer Science and Engineering
Lincoln NE 68588-0115
United States of America
Email:
 xu@unl.edu
URI:

 https://cse.unl.edu/~xu/

,

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9438

TCP CUBIC

August 2023

Sangtae Ha
University of Colorado at Boulder
Department of Computer Science
Boulder CO 80309-0430
United States of America
Email:
URI:

 sangtae.ha@colorado.edu
 https://netstech.org/sangtaeha/

,

Injong Rhee
Bowery Farming
151 W 26th Street, 12th Floor
New York NY 10001
,
United States of America
Email:

 injongrhee@gmail.com

Vidhi Goel
Apple Inc.
One Apple Park Way
Cupertino CA 95014
,
United States of America
Email:

 vidhi_goel@apple.com

editor
)

Lars Eggert (
NetApp
Stenbergintie 12 B
FI-
Finland
Email:
URI:

 lars@eggert.org
 https://eggert.org/

02700 Kauniainen

Xu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

