Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9772
Standards Track
May 2025
2070-1721
G. Mirsky
Ericsson

S. Boutros
Ciena

D. Black
Dell

S. Pallagatti
VMware

RFC 9772
Active Operations, Administration, and
Maintenance (OAM) for Use in Generic Network
Virtualization Encapsulation (Geneve)

Abstract

Geneve (Generic Network Virtualization Encapsulation) is a flexible and extensible network
virtualization overlay protocol designed to encapsulate network packets for transport across
underlying physical networks. This document specifies the requirements and provides a
framework for Operations, Administration, and Maintenance (OAM) in Geneve networks. It
outlines the OAM functions necessary to monitor, diagnose, and troubleshoot Geneve overlay
networks to ensure proper operation and performance. The document aims to guide the
implementation of OAM mechanisms within the Geneve protocol to support network operators
in maintaining reliable and efficient virtualized network environments.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9772
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Mirsky, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9772

Active OAM for Use in Geneve

May 2025

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Conventions Used in This Document

1.1.1.  Requirements Language

1.1.2.  Acronyms

2.  The Applicability of Active OAM Protocols in Geneve Networks

2.1.  Requirements for Active OAM Protocols in Geneve Networks

2.2.  Defect Detection and Troubleshooting in Geneve Network with Active OAM

2.2.1.  Echo Request and Echo Reply in Geneve Tunnel

2.3.  Active OAM Encapsulation in Geneve

3.  IANA Considerations

4.  Security Considerations

5.  References

5.1.  Normative References

5.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

2

3

3

3

4

4

5

6

6

7

8

8

8

8

9

9

[RFC8926]

Geneve
encapsulates multiple protocols, such as Ethernet and IPv4/IPv6, and includes metadata within
the Geneve message.

 is designed to support various scenarios of network virtualization. It

Operations, Administration, and Maintenance (OAM) protocols provide fault management and
performance monitoring functions necessary for comprehensive network operation. Active
OAM protocols, as defined in

, utilize specially constructed packets injected into the

[RFC7799]

Mirsky, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9772

Active OAM for Use in Geneve

May 2025

[RFC0792]
network. OAM protocols such as ICMP and ICMPv6 (
Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD)
[RFC5880]
, and the Simple Two-way Active
[RFC8762]
 are examples of active OAM protocols. To ensure that
Measurement Protocol (STAMP)
performance metrics or detected failures are accurately related to a particular Geneve flow, it is
critical that these OAM test packets share fate, i.e., are in-band, with the overlay data packets of
that monitored flow when traversing the underlay network. In this document, "in-band OAM" is
interpreted as follows:

 respectively),

[RFC4443]

 and

•

In-band OAM is an active or hybrid OAM method, as defined in
same set of links and interfaces and receives the same Quality of Service treatment as the
monitored object. In this context, the monitored object refers to either the entire Geneve
tunnel or a specific tenant flow within a given Geneve tunnel.

[RFC7799]

, that traverses the

Section 2.1 lists the general requirements for active OAM protocols in the Geneve overlay
network. IP encapsulation meets these requirements and is suitable for encapsulating active
OAM protocols within a Geneve overlay network. Active OAM messages in a Geneve overlay
network are exchanged between two Geneve tunnel endpoints; each endpoint may be the tenant-
facing interface of the Network Virtualization Edge (NVE) or another device acting as a Geneve
tunnel endpoint. Testing end-to-end between tenants is out of scope. For simplicity, this
document uses an NVE to represent the Geneve tunnel endpoint. Refer to
[RFC8014]
 for detailed definitions and descriptions of an NVE.

[RFC7365]

 and

The IP encapsulation of Geneve OAM defined in this document applies to an overlay service by
introducing a Management Virtual Network Identifier (VNI), which can be used in combination
with various values of the Protocol Type field in the Geneve header, such as Ethertypes for IPv4
or IPv6. The analysis and definition of other types of OAM encapsulation in Geneve are outside
the scope of this document.

1.1.  Conventions Used in This Document

1.1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

1.1.2.  Acronyms

Geneve:

Generic Network Virtualization Encapsulation

NVO3:

Network Virtualization over Layer 3

OAM:

Operations, Administration, and Maintenance

VNI:

Virtual Network Identifier

BFD:

Bidirectional Forwarding Detection

Mirsky, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9772

Active OAM for Use in Geneve

May 2025

STAMP:

Simple Two-way Active Measurement Protocol

NVE:

Network Virtualization Edge

2.  The Applicability of Active OAM Protocols in Geneve
Networks

2.1.  Requirements for Active OAM Protocols in Geneve Networks

OAM protocols, whether part of fault management or performance monitoring, are intended to
provide reliable information that can be used to detect a failure, identify the defect, and localize
it, thus helping to identify and apply corrective actions to minimize the negative impact on
service. Several OAM protocols are used to perform these functions; these protocols require
demultiplexing at the receiving instance of Geneve. To improve the accuracy of the correlation
between the condition experienced by the monitored Geneve tunnel and the state of the OAM
protocol, the OAM encapsulation is required to comply with the following requirements:

Requirement 1:

Geneve OAM test packets

 share the same fate as the data traffic of the
 be in-band with the
monitored Geneve tunnel. Specifically, the OAM test packets
monitored traffic and follow the same overlay and transport paths as packets carrying
data payloads in the forward direction, i.e., from the ingress toward the egress endpoint(s)
of the OAM test.

MUST

MUST

MAY

 be employed to monitor an entire Geneve tunnel. In this case, test packets

An OAM protocol
could be in-band relative to a subset of tenant flows transported over the Geneve tunnel. If the
goal is to monitor the conditions experienced by the flow of a particular tenant, the test packets
 be in-band with that specific flow within the Geneve tunnel. Both scenarios are discussed
MUST
in detail in Section 2.2.

Requirement 2:
network

MUST

 be indistinguishable.

The encapsulation of OAM control messages and data packets in the underlay

Requirement 3:

The presence of an OAM control message in a Geneve packet
unambiguously identifiable to Geneve functionality, such as at endpoints of Geneve
tunnels.

MUST

 be

Requirement 4:

OAM test packets

MUST NOT

 be forwarded to a tenant system.

MUST

 be in-band with the tunnel or data flow being monitored, as specified in

A test packet generated by an active OAM protocol, whether for defect detection or performance
measurement,
Requirement 1. In environments where multiple paths through the domain are available,
underlay transport nodes can be programmed to use characteristic information to balance the
load across known paths. It is essential that test packets follow the same route -- that is, traverse
the same set of nodes and links as a data packet of the monitored flow. Therefore, the following
requirement supports OAM packet fate-sharing with the data flow.

Mirsky, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9772

Active OAM for Use in Geneve

May 2025

Requirement 5: There

MUST

 be a way to encode entropy information into the underlay

forwarding scheme so that OAM packets take the same data-flow paths as the transit
traffic flows.

2.2.  Defect Detection and Troubleshooting in Geneve Network with Active
OAM

This section considers two scenarios where active OAM is used to detect and localize defects in a
Geneve network. Figure 1 presents an example of a Geneve domain.

+--------+                                             +--------+
| Tenant +--+                                     +----| Tenant |
| VNI 28 |  |                                     |    | VNI 35 |
+--------+  |          ................           |    +--------+
            |  +----+  .              .  +----+   |
            |  | NVE|--.              .--| NVE|   |
            +--| A  |  .              .  | B  |---+
               +----+  .              .  +----+
               /       .              .
              /        .     Geneve   .
+--------+   /         .    Network   .
| Tenant +--+          .              .
| VNI 35 |             .              .
+--------+             ................
                              |
                            +----+
                            | NVE|
                            | C  |
                            +----+
                              |
                              |
                    =====================
                      |               |
                  +--------+      +--------+
                  | Tenant |      | Tenant |
                  | VNI 28 |      | VNI 35 |
                  +--------+      +--------+

Figure 1: An Example of a Geneve Domain

In the first case, consider when a communication problem between Network Virtualization Edge
(NVE) device A and NVE C exists. Upon investigation, the operator discovers that the forwarding
in the IP underlay network is working accordingly. Still, the Geneve connection is unstable for
all NVE A and NVE C tenants. Detection, troubleshooting, and localization of the problem can be
done regardless of the VNI value.

In the second case, traffic on VNI 35 between NVE A and NVE B has no problems, as on VNI 28
between NVE A and NVE C. However, traffic on VNI 35 between NVE A and NVE C experiences
problems, for example, excessive packet loss.

Mirsky, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9772

Active OAM for Use in Geneve

May 2025

The first case can be detected and investigated using any VNI value, whether it connects tenant
systems or not; however, to conform to Requirement 4, OAM test packets
on a VNI that doesn't have any tenants. Such a Geneve tunnel is dedicated to carrying only
control and management data between the tunnel endpoints, so it is referred to as a "Geneve
 be
control channel" and that VNI is referred to as the "Management VNI". A configured VNI
MAY
used to identify the control channel, but it is
 that the default value 1 be used as
the Management VNI. Encapsulation of test packets using the Management VNI is discussed in
Section 2.3.

RECOMMENDED

SHOULD

 be transmitted

MUST

SHOULD

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

 carry tenant data. As no tenants are

The control channel of a Geneve tunnel
connected using the control channel, a system that supports this specification
forward a packet received over the control channel to any tenant. A packet received by the
system that supports this specification over the control channel
it is sent onto the control channel of the concatenated Geneve tunnel. Else, it
terminated locally. The Management VNI
Geneve encapsulation/decapsulation functionality, not the DC-network-facing side (per
definitions in
scope. This approach causes an active OAM packet, e.g., an ICMP echo request, to be
decapsulated in the same fashion as any other received Geneve packet. In this example, the
resulting ICMP packet is handed to NVE's local management functionality for the processing
which generates an ICMP echo reply. The ICMP echo reply is encapsulated in Geneve (as
specified in Section 2.3) for forwarding it back to the NVE that sent the echo request. One
advantage of this approach is that a repeated ICMP echo request/reply test could detect an
intermittent problem in Geneve encap/decap hardware, which would not be tested if the
Management VNI were handled as a "special case" at the DC-network-facing interface.

Section 4 of [RFC8014]

), so that Geneve encap/decap functionality is included in its

 be terminated on the tenant-facing side of the

 be forwarded if and only if
 be

MUST

The second case is when a test packet is transmitted using the VNI value associated with the
monitored service flow. By doing that, the test packet experiences network treatment as the
tenant's packets. An example of the realization of that scenario is discussed in

[RFC9521]
.

2.2.1.  Echo Request and Echo Reply in Geneve Tunnel

[RFC0792]

ICMP and ICMPv6 (
active OAM protocol. They provide required on-demand defect detection and failure
localization. ICMP control messages immediately follow the inner IP header encapsulated in
Geneve. ICMP extensions for Geneve networks use mechanisms defined in

 respectively), as noted above, are examples of an

[RFC4884]
.

[RFC4443]

 and

2.3.  Active OAM Encapsulation in Geneve

[RFC5880]

 and STAMP

Active OAM over a Management VNI in the Geneve network uses an IP encapsulation. Protocols
such as BFD
number in the inner UDP header (Figure 2) identifies the OAM protocol. This approach is well-
[RFC8029]
known and has been used, for example, in MPLS networks
an active OAM protocol, the Protocol Type field of the Geneve header
(IPv4) or 0x86DD (IPv6).

. To use IP encapsulation for
 be set to 0x0800
MUST

 describes the use of IP encapsulation for BFD.

 use UDP transport. The destination UDP port

[RFC9521]

[RFC8762]

Mirsky, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9772

Active OAM for Use in Geneve

May 2025

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                                                               |
~                        Outer IPvX Header                      ~
|                                                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                                                               |
~                        Outer UDP Header                       ~
|                                                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                                                               |
~                          Geneve Header                        ~
|                                                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                                                               |
~                        Inner IPvX Header                      ~
|                                                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                                                               |
~                        Inner UDP Header                       ~
|                                                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                                                               |
~                        Active OAM Packet                      ~
|                                                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 2: An Example of Geneve IP/UDP Encapsulation of an Active OAM Packet

Inner IP header:

Destination IP:

The IP address

MUST

 be set to the loopback address 127.0.0.1/32 for IPv4

version. For IPv6, the address
[RFC9780]
and a reply message to the request message received.

MUST

. A source-only IPv6 address is used as the destination to generate an exception

 be selected from the Dummy IPv6 Prefix 100:0:0:1::/64

Source IP:

IP address of the NVE.

TTL or Hop Limit:

MUST

packet with IP/UDP encapsulation

 be set to 255 per
MUST

[RFC5082]
 drop packets whose TTL/Hop Limit is not 255.

. The receiver of an active OAM Geneve

3.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

Mirsky, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9772

Active OAM for Use in Geneve

May 2025

4.  Security Considerations

As part of a Geneve network, active OAM inherits the security considerations discussed in
[RFC8926]
punted to the Geneve control plane for processing in order to avoid overloading that control
plane.

 provide control to limit the rate of Geneve OAM packets

. Additionally, a system

MUST

OAM in Geneve packets uses the General TTL Security Mechanism
received with an inner TTL / Hop Count other than 255

MUST

 be discarded.

[RFC5082]

, and any packet

5.  References

5.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8926]

[RFC9780]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Gross, J., Ed. Ganga, I., Ed.
,
Virtualization Encapsulation" RFC 8926 DOI 10.17487/RFC8926
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8926>

, and
,

T. Sridhar, Ed. "Geneve: Generic Network

,

.

, November 2020,

, and

Mirsky, G. Mishra, G.
,
(BFD) for Multipoint Networks over Point-to-Multipoint MPLS Label Switched
Paths (LSPs)" RFC 9780 DOI 10.17487/RFC9780
,
editor.org/info/rfc9780>
.

D. Eastlake 3rd "Bidirectional Forwarding Detection

<https://www.rfc-

, May 2025,

,

,

5.2.  Informative References

[RFC0792]

[RFC4443]

[RFC4884]

Postel, J. "Internet Control Message Protocol" STD 5 RFC 792 DOI 10.17487/
,
RFC0792
, September 1981,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc792>

.

,

,

,

, and

Conta, A. Deering, S.
,
(ICMPv6) for the Internet Protocol Version 6 (IPv6) Specification" STD 89 RFC
4443 DOI 10.17487/RFC4443
,
rfc4443>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

M. Gupta, Ed. "Internet Control Message Protocol

, March 2006,

,

.

,

,

Bonica, R. Gan, D. Tappan, D.
, and
Multi-Part Messages" RFC 4884 DOI 10.17487/RFC4884
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4884>

C. Pignataro "Extended ICMP to Support
<https://

, April 2007,

,

,

,

.

Mirsky, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9772

Active OAM for Use in Geneve

May 2025

[RFC5082]

[RFC5880]

[RFC7365]

[RFC7799]

[RFC8014]

[RFC8029]

[RFC8762]

[RFC9521]

,

Gill, V. Heasley, J. Meyer, D. Savola, P., Ed.
TTL Security Mechanism (GTSM)" RFC 5082 DOI 10.17487/RFC5082
,
2007,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5082>

, and
,

,

,

.

C. Pignataro "The Generalized

,

, October

Katz, D.
 and
10.17487/RFC5880

D. Ward "Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD)" RFC 5880 DOI

,

,

,

, June 2010,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5880>

.

,

Lasserre, M. Balus, F. Morin, T. Bitar, N.
Center (DC) Network Virtualization" RFC 7365 DOI 10.17487/RFC7365
2014,

Y. Rekhter "Framework for Data
,
, October
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7365>
.

, and

,

,

,

,

Morton, A. "Active and Passive Metrics and Methods (with Hybrid Types In-
Between)" RFC 7799 DOI 10.17487/RFC7799
,
editor.org/info/rfc7799>

<https://www.rfc-

, May 2016,

,
,

.

,

Black, D. Hudson, J. Kreeger, L. Lasserre, M.
for Data-Center Network Virtualization over Layer 3 (NVO3)" RFC 8014 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8014>
10.17487/RFC8014

T. Narten "An Architecture

, December 2016,

, and

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

Kompella, K. Swallow, G. Pignataro, C., Ed. Kumar, N. Aldrin, S.
,
"Detecting Multiprotocol Label Switched (MPLS) Data-Plane Failures" RFC 8029
DOI 10.17487/RFC8029
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8029>

M. Chen
, and
,

, March 2017,

,

,

,

,

,

Mirsky, G. Jun, G. Nydell, H.
Measurement Protocol" RFC 8762 DOI 10.17487/RFC8762
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8762>

R. Foote "Simple Two-Way Active
,
.

, and

,

,

,

, March 2020,

<https://

,

,

Min, X. Mirsky, G. Pallagatti, S. Tantsura, J.
Forwarding Detection (BFD) for Generic Network Virtualization Encapsulation
(Geneve)" RFC 9521 DOI 10.17487/RFC9521
editor.org/info/rfc9521>

S. Aldrin "Bidirectional

<https://www.rfc-

, January 2024,

, and

,

,

,

,

.

Acknowledgments

The authors express their appreciation to
improved the readability of the document.

Donald E. Eastlake 3rd

 for his suggestions that

Authors' Addresses

Greg Mirsky
Ericsson
Email:

gregimirsky@gmail.com

Sami Boutros
Ciena
Email:

sboutros@ciena.com

Mirsky, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9772

Active OAM for Use in Geneve

May 2025

David Black
Dell
Email:

david.black@dell.com

Santosh Pallagatti
VMware
Email:

santosh.pallagatti@gmail.com

Mirsky, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

