Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9145
Standards Track
December 2021
2070-1721
M. Boucadair
Orange

T. Reddy.K
Akamai

D. Wing
Citrix

RFC 9145
Integrity Protection for the Network Service Header
(NSH) and Encryption of Sensitive Context Headers

Abstract

This speciﬁcation presents an optional method to add integrity protection directly to the Network
Service Header (NSH) used for Service Function Chaining (SFC). Also, this speciﬁcation allows for
the encryption of sensitive metadata (MD) that is carried in the NSH.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9145
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9145

Integrity Protection for the NSH

December 2021

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  Assumptions and Basic Requirements

4.  Design Overview

4.1.  Supported Security Services

4.1.1.  Encrypt All or a Subset of Context Headers

4.1.2.  Integrity Protection

4.2.  One Secret Key, Two Security Services

4.3.  Mandatory-to-Implement Authenticated Encryption and HMAC Algorithms

4.4.  Key Management

4.5.  New NSH Variable-Length Context Headers

4.6.  Encapsulation of NSH within NSH

5.  New NSH Variable-Length Context Headers

5.1.  MAC#1 Context Header

5.2.  MAC#2 Context Header

6.  Timestamp Format

7.  Processing Rules

7.1.  Generic Behavior

7.2.  MAC NSH Data Generation

7.3.  Encrypted NSH Metadata Generation

7.4.  Timestamp for Replay Attack Prevention

7.5.  NSH Data Validation

7.6.  Decryption of NSH Metadata

8.  MTU Considerations

9.  Security Considerations

9.1.  MAC#1

9.2.  MAC#2

9.3.  Time Synchronization

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9145

Integrity Protection for the NSH

December 2021

10. IANA Considerations

11. References

11.1.  Normative References

11.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

Many advanced Service Functions (SFs) are enabled for the delivery of value-added services.
Typically, SFs are used to meet various service objectives such as IP address sharing, avoiding
covert channels, detecting Denial-of-Service (DoS) attacks and protecting network
infrastructures against them, network slicing, etc. Because of the proliferation of such advanced
SFs together with complex service deployment constraints that demand more agile service
delivery procedures, operators need to rationalize their service delivery logic and control its
complexity while optimizing service activation time cycles. The overall problem space is
described in

[RFC7498]

.

 presents a data plane architecture addressing the problematic aspects of existing

[RFC7665]
service deployments, including topological dependence and conﬁguration complexity. It also
describes an architecture for the speciﬁcation, creation, and maintenance of Service Function
Chains (SFCs) within a network, that is, how to deﬁne an ordered set of SFs and ordering
constraints that must be applied to packets/ﬂows selected as a result of traﬃc classiﬁcation.
[RFC8300]

 speciﬁes the SFC encapsulation: Network Service Header (NSH).

The NSH data is unauthenticated and unencrypted, forcing a service topology that requires
security and privacy to use a transport encapsulation that supports such features (
[RFC8300]

).

Section 8.2 of

Note that some transport encapsulations (e.g., IPsec) only provide hop-by-hop security between
two SFC data plane elements (e.g., two Service Function Forwarders (SFFs), SFF to SF) and do not
provide SF-to-SF security of NSH metadata. For example, if IPsec is used, SFFs or SFs within a
Service Function Path (SFP) that are not authorized to access the sensitive metadata (e.g.,
privacy-sensitive information) will have access to the metadata. As a reminder, the metadata
referred to is information that is inserted by Classiﬁers or intermediate SFs and shared with
downstream SFs; such information is not visible to the communication endpoints (
[RFC7665]

Section 4.9 of

).

The lack of such capability was reported during the development of
reader may refer to
more awareness about attacks from within closed domains.

Section 3.2.1 of [INTERNET-THREAT-MODEL]

[RFC8300]

. The
 and
 for a discussion on the need for

[RFC8459]

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9145

Integrity Protection for the NSH

December 2021

This speciﬁcation ﬁlls that gap for SFC (that is, it deﬁnes the "NSH Variable Header-Based
Section 8.2.1 of [RFC8300]
Integrity" option mentioned in
integrity protection and optional encryption of sensitive metadata directly to the NSH (Section
4). The integrity protection covers the packet payload and provides replay protection (Section
7.4). Thus, the NSH does not have to rely upon an underlying transport encapsulation for security.

). Concretely, this document adds

This speciﬁcation introduces new Variable-Length Context Headers to carry ﬁelds necessary for
integrity-protected NSH headers and encrypted Context Headers (Section 5). This speciﬁcation is
only applicable to NSH MD Type 0x02 (
discussed in Section 8. This speciﬁcation is not applicable to NSH MD Type 0x01 (
[RFC8300]
bytes; that is not suﬃcient to accommodate both the metadata and message integrity of the NSH
data.

Section 2.4 of
) because that MD Type only allows a Fixed-Length Context Header whose size is 16

). MTU considerations are

Section 2.5 of [RFC8300]

This speciﬁcation limits access to NSH-supplied information along an SFP to entities that have a
need to interpret it.

The mechanism speciﬁed in this document does not preclude the use of transport security. Such
considerations are deployment speciﬁc.

It is out of the scope of this document to specify an NSH-aware control plane solution.

2.  Terminology

The key words "
", "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
", "
"
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

This document makes use of the terms deﬁned in
encapsulation" used in this document refers to the outer encapsulation (e.g., Generic Routing
Encapsulation (GRE), IPsec, and Generic Protocol Extension for Virtual eXtensible Local Area
Network (VXLAN-GPE)) that is used to carry NSH-encapsulated packets as per
[RFC8300]

Section 4 of

[RFC8300]

[RFC7665]

. The term "transport

 and

.

The document deﬁnes the following terms:

SFC data plane element:

Refers to NSH-aware SF, SFF, the SFC Proxy, or the Classiﬁer as deﬁned

in the SFC data plane architecture

[RFC7665]

 and further reﬁned in

[RFC8300]

.

SFC control element:

Is a logical entity that instructs one or more SFC data plane elements on

how to process NSH packets within an SFC-enabled domain.

Key Identiﬁer:
.
[RFC7635]

Is used to identify keys to authorized entities. See, for example, "kid" usage in

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9145

Integrity Protection for the NSH

December 2021

NSH data:

The NSH is composed of a Base Header, a Service Path Header, and optional Context

Headers. NSH data refers to all the above headers and the packet or frame on which the NSH is
imposed to realize an SFP.

NSH imposer:

Refers to an SFC data plane element that is entitled to impose the NSH with the

Context Headers deﬁned in this document.

3.  Assumptions and Basic Requirements

Section 2 of [RFC8300]

 speciﬁes that the NSH data can be spread over three headers:

Base Header:

Provides information about the service header and the payload protocol.

Service Path Header:

Provides path identiﬁcation and location within an SFP.

Context Header(s):

Carries metadata (i.e., context data) along a service path.

The NSH allows sharing context information (a.k.a. metadata) with downstream NSH-aware data
plane elements on a per-SFC/SFP basis. To that aim:

•

The Classiﬁer is instructed by an SFC control element about the set of context information to
be supplied for a given service function chain.

•

An NSH-aware SF is instructed by an SFC control element about any metadata it needs to
attach to packets for a given service function chain. This instruction may occur any time
during the validity lifetime of an SFC/SFP. For a given service function chain, the NSH-aware
SF is also provided with an order for consuming a set of contexts supplied in a packet.

•

An NSH-aware SF can also be instructed by an SFC control element about the behavior it
should adopt after consuming context information that was supplied in the NSH. For
example, the context information can be maintained, updated, or stripped.

•

An SFC Proxy may be instructed by an SFC control element about the behavior it should
adopt to process the context information that was supplied in the NSH on behalf of an NSH-
unaware SF (e.g., the context information can be maintained or stripped). The SFC Proxy may
also be instructed to add some new context information into the NSH on behalf of an NSH-
unaware SF.

In reference to Table 1:

•

Classiﬁers, NSH-aware SFs, and SFC proxies are entitled to update the Context Header(s).

•

Only NSH-aware SFs and SFC proxies are entitled to update the Service Path Header.

•

SFFs are entitled to modify the Base Header (TTL value, for example). Nevertheless, SFFs are
not supposed to act on the Context Headers or look into the content of the Context Headers
(
Section 4.3 of [RFC7665]

).

Thus, the following requirements:

•

Only Classiﬁers, NSH-aware SFs, and SFC proxies must be able to encrypt and decrypt a given
Context Header.

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9145

Integrity Protection for the NSH

December 2021

•

Both encrypted and unencrypted Context Headers may be included in the same NSH.

•

The solution must provide integrity protection for the Service Path Header.

•

The solution must provide optional integrity protection for the Base Header. The implications
of disabling such checks are discussed in Section 9.1.

SFC Data Plane
Element

Insert, remove, or replace the
NSH

Update the NSH

Insert

Remove

Replace

Decrement
Service Index

Update
Context
Header(s)

+

+

+

+

+

+

+

+

+

+

Classiﬁer

Service Function
Forwarder (SFF)

Service Function
(SF)

Service Function
Chaining (SFC)
Proxy

Table 1: Summary of NSH Actions

4.  Design Overview

4.1.  Supported Security Services

This speciﬁcation provides the functions described in the following subsections.

4.1.1.  Encrypt All or a Subset of Context Headers

The solution allows encrypting all or a subset of NSH Context Headers by Classiﬁers, NSH-aware
SFs, and SFC proxies.

As depicted in Table 2, SFFs are not involved in data encryption.

Data Plane
Element

Classiﬁer

SFF

NSH-aware SF

Base and Service Path Headers
Encryption

Context Header
Encryption

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9145

Integrity Protection for the NSH

December 2021

Data Plane
Element

SFC Proxy

NSH-unaware SF

Base and Service Path Headers
Encryption

Context Header
Encryption

No

No

Yes

No

Table 2: Encryption Function Supported by SFC Data Plane Elements

Classiﬁer(s), NSH-aware SFs, and SFC proxies are instructed with the set of Context Headers
(privacy-sensitive metadata, typically) that must be encrypted. Encryption keying material is
only provided to these SFC data plane elements.

The control plane may indicate the set of SFC data plane elements that are entitled to supply a
given Context Header (e.g., in reference to their identiﬁers as assigned within the SFC-enabled
domain). It is out of the scope of this document to elaborate on how such instructions are
provided to the appropriate SFC data plane elements nor to detail the structure used to store the
instructions.

The Service Path Header (
Index (SI) in conjunction with the Service Path Identiﬁer (SPI) for determining the next SF in the
path.

) is not encrypted because SFFs use the Service

Section 2 of [RFC8300]

4.1.2.  Integrity Protection

The solution provides integrity protection for the NSH data. Two levels of assurance (LoAs) are
supported.

The ﬁrst level of assurance is where all NSH data except the Base Header are integrity protected
(Figure 1). In this case, the NSH imposer may be a Classiﬁer, an NSH-aware SF, or an SFC Proxy.
SFFs are not provided with authentication material. Further details are discussed in Section 5.1.

   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                Transport Encapsulation                |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+...
   |                Base Header                            |  |
+->+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+  N
|  |                Service Path Header                    |  S
|  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+  H
|  |                Context Header(s)                      |  |
|  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+...
|  |                Original Packet                        |
+->+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|
+------Scope of integrity-protected data

Figure 1: First Level of Assurance

The second level of assurance is where all NSH data, including the Base Header, are integrity
protected (Figure 2). In this case, the NSH imposer may be a Classiﬁer, an NSH-aware SF, an SFF, or
an SFC Proxy. Further details are provided in Section 5.2.

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9145

Integrity Protection for the NSH

December 2021

   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                Transport Encapsulation                |
+->+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+...
|  |                Base Header                            |  |
|  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+  N
|  |                Service Path Header                    |  S
|  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+  H
|  |                Context Header(s)                      |  |
|  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+...
|  |                Original Packet                        |
+->+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|
+----Scope of integrity-protected data

Figure 2: Second Level of Assurance

The integrity-protection scope is explicitly signaled to NSH-aware SFs, SFFs, and SFC proxies in
the NSH by means of a dedicated MD Type (Section 5).

In both levels of assurance, the Context Headers and the packet on which the NSH is imposed are
subject to integrity protection.

Table 3 classiﬁes the data plane elements as being involved or not involved in providing integrity
protection for the NSH.

Data Plane Element

Integrity Protection

Classiﬁer

Yes

SFF

No (ﬁrst LoA); Yes (second LoA)

NSH-aware SF

SFC Proxy

NSH-unaware SF

Yes

Yes

No

Table 3: Integrity Protection Supported by SFC Data Plane
Elements

4.2.  One Secret Key, Two Security Services

The Authenticated Encryption with Associated Data (AEAD) interface deﬁned in
[RFC5116]
integrity protection for the encrypted Context Headers.

 is used to encrypt the Context Headers that carry sensitive metadata and to provide

Section 5 of

The secondary keys "MAC_KEY" and "ENC_KEY" are generated from the input secret key (K) as
follows; each of these two keys is an octet string:

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9145

Integrity Protection for the NSH

December 2021

MAC_KEY:

Consists of the initial MAC_KEY_LEN octets of K, in order. The MAC_KEY is used for

calculating the message integrity of the NSH data. In other words, the integrity protection
provided by the cryptographic mechanism is extended to also provide protection for the
unencrypted Context Headers and the packet on which the NSH is imposed.

ENC_KEY:

Consists of the ﬁnal ENC_KEY_LEN octets of K, in order. The ENC_KEY is used as the

symmetric encryption key for encrypting the Context Headers.

The Hashed Message Authentication Code (HMAC) algorithm discussed in
protect the integrity of the NSH data. The algorithm for implementing and validating HMACs is
provided in

[RFC2104]

[RFC4868]

 is used to

.

The advantage of using both AEAD and HMAC algorithms (instead of just AEAD) is that NSH-
aware SFs and SFC proxies only need to recompute the message integrity of the NSH data after
decrementing the SI and do not have to recompute the ciphertext. The other advantage is that
SFFs do not have access to the ENC_KEY and cannot act on the encrypted Context Headers, and
(in the case of the second level of assurance) SFFs do have access to the MAC_KEY. Similarly, an
NSH-aware SF or SFC Proxy not allowed to decrypt the Context Headers will not have access to
the ENC_KEY.

The authenticated encryption algorithm or HMAC algorithm to be used by SFC data plane
elements is typically controlled using the SFC control plane. Mandatory-to-implement
authenticated encryption and HMAC algorithms are listed in Section 4.3.

The authenticated encryption process takes four inputs, each of which is an octet string: a secret
key (ENC_KEY, referred to as "K" in
), a plaintext (P), associated data (A) (which contains
the data to be authenticated but not encrypted), and a nonce (N). A ciphertext (C) is generated as
an output as discussed in

Section 2.1 of [RFC5116]

[RFC5116]

.

In order to decrypt and verify, the cipher takes ENC_KEY, N, A, and C as input. The output is either
the plaintext or an error indicating that the decryption failed as described in
[RFC5116]

Section 2.2 of

.

4.3.  Mandatory-to-Implement Authenticated Encryption and HMAC
Algorithms

Classiﬁers, NSH-aware SFs, and SFC proxies
algorithm and

SHOULD

 implement the AES_192_GCM and AES_256_GCM algorithms.

MUST

 implement the AES_128_GCM

[GCM][RFC5116]

Classiﬁers, NSH-aware SFs, and SFC proxies
and

SHOULD

 implement the HMAC-SHA-384-192 and HMAC-SHA-512-256 algorithms.

MUST

 implement the HMAC-SHA-256-128 algorithm

SFFs

MAY

 implement the aforementioned cipher suites and HMAC algorithms.

Note: The use of the AES_128_CBC_HMAC_SHA_256 algorithm would have avoided the need for
a second 128-bit authentication tag, but due to the nature of how Cipher Block Chaining (CBC)
mode operates, AES_128_CBC_HMAC_SHA_256 allows for the malleability of plaintexts. This
malleability allows for attackers that know the Message Authentication Code (MAC) key but

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9145

Integrity Protection for the NSH

December 2021

not the encryption key to make changes in the ciphertext and, if parts of the plaintext are
known, create arbitrary blocks of plaintext. This speciﬁcation mandates the use of separate
AEAD and MAC protections to prevent this type of attack.

4.4.  Key Management

The procedure for the allocation/provisioning of secret keys (K) and the authenticated encryption
algorithm or MAC_KEY and HMAC algorithm is outside the scope of this speciﬁcation. As such, this
speciﬁcation does not mandate the support of any speciﬁc mechanism.

The document does not assume nor preclude the following:

•

The same keying material is used for all the service functions used within an SFC-enabled
domain.

•

Distinct keying material is used per SFP by all involved SFC data path elements.

•

Per-tenant keys are used.

In order to accommodate deployments relying upon keying material per SFC/SFP and also the
need to update keys after encrypting NSH data for a certain amount of time, this document uses
key identiﬁers to unambiguously identify the appropriate keying material and associated
algorithms for MAC and encryption. This use of in-band identiﬁers addresses the problem of the
synchronization of keying material.

Additional information on manual vs. automated key management and when one should be
.
used over the other can be found in

[RFC4107]

The risk involved in using a group-shared symmetric key increases with the size of the group to
which it is shared. Additional security issues are discussed in Section 9.

4.5.  New NSH Variable-Length Context Headers

New NSH Variable-Length Context Headers are deﬁned in Section 5 for NSH data integrity
protection and, optionally, encryption of Context Headers carrying sensitive metadata.
Concretely, an NSH imposer includes (1) the key identiﬁer to identify the keying material, (2) the
timestamp to protect against replay attacks (Section 7.4), and (3) MAC for the target NSH data
(depending on the integrity-protection scope) calculated using MAC_KEY and, optionally, Context
Headers encrypted using ENC_KEY.

An SFC data plane element that needs to check the integrity of the NSH data uses the MAC_KEY
and HMAC algorithm for the key identiﬁer being carried in the NSH.

An NSH-aware SF or SFC Proxy that needs to decrypt some Context Headers uses ENC_KEY and
the decryption algorithm for the key identiﬁer being carried in the NSH.

Section 7 speciﬁes the detailed procedure.

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9145

Integrity Protection for the NSH

December 2021

4.6.  Encapsulation of NSH within NSH

Section 3 of [RFC8459]

, an SFC-enabled domain (called an upper-level domain)

As discussed in
may be decomposed into many sub-domains (called lower-level domains). In order to avoid
maintaining state to restore upper-level NSH information at the boundaries of lower-level
domains, two NSH levels are used: an Upper-NSH that is imposed at the boundaries of the upper-
level domain and a Lower-NSH that is pushed by the Classiﬁer of a lower-level domain in front of
the original NSH (Figure 3). As such, the Upper-NSH information is carried along the lower-level
chain without modiﬁcation. The packet is forwarded in the top-level domain according to the
Upper-NSH, while it is forwarded according to the Lower-NSH in a lower-level domain.

   +---------------------------------+
   |     Transport Encapsulation     |
+->+---------------------------------+
|  |        Lower-NSH Header         |
|  +---------------------------------+
|  |        Upper-NSH Header         |
|  +---------------------------------+
|  |          Original Packet        |
+->+---------------------------------+
|
|
+----Scope of NSH security protection
     provided by a lower-level domain

Figure 3: Encapsulation of NSH within NSH

SFC data plane elements of a lower-level domain include the Upper-NSH when computing the
MAC.

Keying material used at the upper-level domain
lower-level domain.

SHOULD NOT

 be the same as the one used by a

5.  New NSH Variable-Length Context Headers

This section speciﬁes the format of new Variable-Length Context Headers that are used for NSH
integrity protection and, optionally, Context Header encryption.

In particular, this section deﬁnes two "MAC and Encrypted Metadata" Context Headers, each
having speciﬁc deployment constraints. Unlike Section 5.1, the level of assurance provided in
Section 5.2 requires sharing MAC_KEY with SFFs. Both Context Headers have the same format as
shown in Figure 4.

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9145

Integrity Protection for the NSH

December 2021

    0                   1                   2                   3
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |          Metadata Class       |      Type     |U|    Length   |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   | Key Id Len  |         Key Identifier (Variable)               ~
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   ~                      Timestamp (8 bytes)                      ~
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   | Nonce Length  |           Nonce  (Variable)                   ~
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |     Message Authentication Code and optional Encrypted        |
   ~                  Context Headers (Variable)                   ~
   |                                                               |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 4: MAC and Encrypted Metadata Context Header

The "MAC and Encrypted Metadata" Context Headers are padded out to a multiple of 4 bytes as
per
MUST

. The "MAC and Encrypted Metadata" Context Header, if included,

 always be the last Context Header.

Section 2.2 of [RFC8300]

5.1.  MAC#1 Context Header

The MAC#1 Context Header is a Variable-Length Context Header that carries MAC for the Service
Path Header, Context Headers, and the inner packet on which NSH is imposed, calculated using
MAC_KEY and, optionally, Context Headers encrypted using ENC_KEY. The scope of the integrity
protection provided by this Context Header is depicted in Figure 5.

This MAC scheme does not require sharing MAC_KEY with SFFs. It does not require recomputing
the MAC by each SFF because of TTL processing. Section 9.1 discusses the possible threat
associated with this level of assurance.

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9145

Integrity Protection for the NSH

December 2021

    0                   1                   2                   3
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |Ver|O|U|    TTL    |   Length  |U|U|U|U|MD Type| Next Protocol |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+<--+
   |          Service Path Identifier              | Service Index |   |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+   |
   ~       Variable-Length Unencrypted Context Headers  (opt.)     ~   |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+   |
   |          Metadata Class       |      Type     |U|    Length   |   |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+   |
   | Key Id Len  |         Key Identifier (Variable)               ~   |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+   |
   ~                      Timestamp (8 bytes)                      ~   |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+   |
   | Nonce Length  |           Nonce  (Variable)                   ~   |
+->+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+   |
|  ~                Encrypted Context Headers (opt.)               ~   |
+->+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+   |
|  ~                 Message Authentication Code                   ~   |
|  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+   |
|  |                                                               |   |
|  ~               Inner Packet on which NSH is imposed            ~   |
|  |                                                               |   |
|  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+<--|
|                                                                      |
|                                       Integrity-Protection Scope ----+
+----Encrypted Data

Figure 5: Scope of MAC#1

In reference to Figure 4, the description of the ﬁelds is as follows:

Metadata Class:

MUST

 be set to 0x0 (

Section 2.2 of [RFC8300]

).

Type:

0x02 (see Section 10).

U:

Unassigned bit (

Section 2.5.1 of [RFC8300]

).

Length:

Indicates the length of the variable-length metadata in bytes. Padding
considerations are discussed in

Section 2.5.1 of [RFC8300]

.

Key Id Len:

Variable. Carries the length of the key identiﬁer in octets.

Key Identiﬁer:

Carries a variable-length Key Identiﬁer object used to identify and deliver keys to

SFC data plane elements. This identiﬁer is helpful for accommodating deployments
relying upon keying material per SFC/SFP. The key identiﬁer helps to resolve the
problem of synchronization of keying material. A single key identiﬁer is used to look
up both the ENC_KEY and the MAC_KEY associated with a key, and the corresponding
encryption and MAC algorithms used with those keys.

Timestamp:

Refer to Section 6 for more details about the structure of this ﬁeld.

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9145

Integrity Protection for the NSH

December 2021

Nonce Length:

Carries the length of the Nonce. If the Context Headers are only integrity

protected, "Nonce Length" is set to zero (that is, no "Nonce" is included).

Nonce:

Carries the Nonce for the authenticated encryption operation (
[RFC5116]

).

Section 3.1 of

Encrypted Context Headers:

Carries the optional encrypted Context Headers.

Message Authentication Code:

Covers the entire NSH data, excluding the Base Header.

5.2.  MAC#2 Context Header

The MAC#2 Context Header is a Variable-Length Context Header that carries the MAC for the
entire NSH data calculated using MAC_KEY and, optionally, Context Headers encrypted using
ENC_KEY. The scope of the integrity protection provided by this Context Header is depicted in
Figure 6.

    0                   1                   2                   3
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+<--+
   |Ver|O|U|    TTL    |   Length  |U|U|U|U|MD Type| Next Protocol |   |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+   |
   |          Service Path Identifier              | Service Index |   |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+   |
   ~       Variable-Length Unencrypted Context Headers  (opt.)     ~   |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+   |
   |          Metadata Class       |      Type     |U|    Length   |   |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+   |
   | Key Id Len  |         Key Identifier (Variable)               ~   |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+   |
   ~                      Timestamp (8 bytes)                      ~   |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+   |
   | Nonce Length  |           Nonce  (Variable)                   ~   |
+->+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+   |
|  ~                Encrypted Context Headers (opt.)               ~   |
+->+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+   |
|  ~                 Message Authentication Code                   ~   |
|  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+   |
|  |                                                               |   |
|  ~               Inner Packet on which NSH is imposed            ~   |
|  |                                                               |   |
|  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+<--|
|                                                                      |
|                                       Integrity-Protection Scope ----+
+----Encrypted Data

Figure 6: Scope of MAC#2

In reference to Figure 4, the description of the ﬁelds is as follows:

Metadata Class:

MUST

 be set to 0x0 (

Section 2.2 of [RFC8300]

).

Type:

0x03 (see Section 10).

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9145

Integrity Protection for the NSH

December 2021

U:

Unassigned bit (

Section 2.5.1 of [RFC8300]

).

Length:

Indicates the length of the variable-length metadata in bytes. Padding
considerations are discussed in

Section 2.5.1 of [RFC8300]

.

Key Id Len:

See Section 5.1.

Key Identiﬁer:

See Section 5.1.

Timestamp:

See Section 6.

Nonce Length:

See Section 5.1.

Nonce:

See Section 5.1.

Encrypted Context Headers:

Carries the optional encrypted Context Headers.

Message Authentication Code:

Covers the entire NSH data.

6.  Timestamp Format

This section follows the template provided in

Section 3 of [RFC8877]

.

The format of the Timestamp ﬁeld introduced in Section 5 is depicted in Figure 7.

    0                   1                   2                   3
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                            Seconds                            |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                           Fraction                            |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 7: Timestamp Field Format

Timestamp ﬁeld format:

Seconds:

Speciﬁes the integer portion of the number of seconds since the epoch.

+ Size:

32 bits

+ Units:

Seconds

Fraction:

Speciﬁes the fractional portion of the number of seconds since the epoch.

+ Size:

32 bits

+ Units:

The unit is 2(-32) seconds, which is roughly equal to 233 picoseconds.

Epoch:

The epoch is 1970-01-01T00:00 in UTC time. Note that this epoch value is diﬀerent from the one
 (which will wrap around in 2036).
used in

Section 6 of [RFC5905]

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9145

Integrity Protection for the NSH

December 2021

Leap seconds:

This timestamp format is aﬀected by leap seconds. The timestamp represents the number of
seconds elapsed since the epoch minus the number of leap seconds.

Resolution:

The resolution is 2(-32) seconds.

Wraparound:

This time format wraps around every 232 seconds, which is roughly 136 years. The next
wraparound will occur in the year 2106.

Synchronization aspects:

It is assumed that SFC data plane elements are synchronized to UTC using a synchronization
mechanism that is outside the scope of this document. In typical deployments, SFC data plane
elements use NTP
the NTP-synchronized clock, allowing the timestamp to be measured with respect to the clock
of an NTP server. Since this time format is speciﬁed in terms of UTC, it is aﬀected by leap
seconds (in a manner analogous to the NTP time format, which is similar). Therefore, the value
of a timestamp during or slightly after a leap second may be temporarily inaccurate.

 for synchronization. Thus, the timestamp may be derived from

[RFC5905]

7.  Processing Rules

The following subsections describe the processing rules for integrity-protected NSH and,
optionally, encrypted Context Headers.

7.1.  Generic Behavior

 for handling the
This document adheres to the recommendations in
Context Headers at both ingress and egress SFC boundary nodes (i.e., to strip the entire NSH,
including Context Headers).

Section 8.1 of [RFC8300]

MAY

Failures of a Classiﬁer to inject the Context Headers deﬁned in this document
locally while a notiﬁcation alarm
aware node to validate the integrity of the NSH data
a notiﬁcation alarm
alarms (i.e., the parameters that aﬀect the transmission of the notiﬁcation alarms depending on
the information in the Context Header such as frequency, thresholds, and content in the alarm)
SHOULD

 be sent to an SFC control element. The details of sending notiﬁcation

 be sent to an SFC control element. Failures of an NSH-

 cause that packet to be discarded while

 be conﬁgurable.

 be logged

SHOULD

MUST

MAY

MAY

 be instructed to strip some encrypted Context Headers from

NSH-aware SFs and SFC proxies
the packet or to pass the data to the next SF in the service function chain after processing the
content of the Context Headers. If no instruction is provided, the default behavior for
intermediary NSH-aware nodes is to maintain such Context Headers so that the information can
be passed to the next NSH-aware hops. NSH-aware SFs and SFC proxies
 reapply the integrity
protection if any modiﬁcation is made to the Context Headers (e.g., strip a Context Header,
update the content of an existing Context Header, insert a new Context Header).

MUST

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9145

Integrity Protection for the NSH

December 2021

An NSH-aware SF or SFC Proxy that is not allowed to decrypt any Context Headers
given access to the ENC_KEY.

MUST NOT

 be

Otherwise, an NSH-aware SF or SFC Proxy that receives encrypted Context Headers, for which it is
not allowed to consume a speciﬁc Context Header it decrypts (but consumes others),
that Context Header unaltered when forwarding the packet upstream.

 keep

MUST

Only one instance of a "MAC and Encrypted Metadata" Context Header (Section 5) is allowed in
an NSH level. If multiple instances of a "MAC and Encrypted Metadata" Context Header are
included in an NSH level, the SFC data plane element
subsequent instances and
[RFC8300]

. If NSH within NSH is used (Section 4.6), distinct LoAs may be used for each NSH level.

 log or increase a counter for this event as per

 process the ﬁrst instance and ignore

Section 2.5.1 of

MUST

MAY

MTU and fragmentation considerations are discussed in Section 8.

7.2.  MAC NSH Data Generation

After performing any Context Header encryption, the HMAC algorithm discussed in
used to integrity protect the target NSH data. An NSH imposer inserts a "MAC and Encrypted
Metadata" Context Header for integrity protection (Section 5).

[RFC4868]

 is

The NSH imposer sets the MAC ﬁeld to zero and then computes the message integrity for the
target NSH data (depending on the integrity-protection scope discussed in Section 5) using the
MAC_KEY and HMAC algorithm. It inserts the computed digest in the MAC ﬁeld of the "MAC and
Encrypted Metadata" Context Header. The length of the MAC is decided by the HMAC algorithm
adopted for the particular key identiﬁer.

The Message Authentication Code (T) computation process for the target NSH data with HMAC-
SHA-256-128() can be illustrated as follows:

      T = HMAC-SHA-256-128(MAC_KEY, target NSH data)

An entity in the SFP that updates the NSH
MUST
integrity of the NSH for subsequent validations.

 follow the above behavior to maintain message

7.3.  Encrypted NSH Metadata Generation

An NSH imposer can encrypt Context Headers carrying sensitive metadata, i.e., encrypted and
unencrypted metadata may be carried simultaneously in the same NSH packet (Sections 5 and 6).

 to encrypt all Context
In order to prevent pervasive monitoring
Headers. All Context Headers carrying privacy-sensitive metadata
 be encrypted; by doing
so, privacy-sensitive metadata is not revealed to attackers. Privacy-speciﬁc threats are discussed
in

Section 5.2 of [RFC6973]

RECOMMENDED

[RFC7258]

, it is

MUST

.

Using the secret key (ENC_KEY) and authenticated encryption algorithm, the NSH imposer
encrypts the Context Headers (as set, for example, in Section 3) and inserts the resulting payload
in the "MAC and Encrypted Metadata" Context Header (Section 5). The additional authenticated

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9145

Integrity Protection for the NSH

December 2021

data input to the AEAD function is a zero-length byte string. The entire Context Header carrying
sensitive metadata is encrypted (that is, including the MD Class, Type, Length, and associated
metadata of each Context Header).

. In
More details about the exact encryption procedure are provided in
this case, the associated data (A) input is zero length for AES Galois/Counter Mode (AES-GCM).

Section 2.1 of [RFC5116]

An authorized entity in the SFP that updates the content of an encrypted Context Header or
needs to add a new encrypted Context Header

 also follow the aforementioned behavior.

MUST

7.4.  Timestamp for Replay Attack Prevention

The Timestamp imposed by an initial Classiﬁer is left untouched along an SFP. However, it can be
updated when reclassiﬁcation occurs (
setting the Timestamp are followed in both initial classiﬁcation and reclassiﬁcation (Section 6).

). The same considerations for

Section 4.8 of [RFC7665]

The received NSH is accepted by an NSH-aware node if the Timestamp (TS) in the NSH is recent
enough to the reception time of the NSH (TSrt). The following formula is used for this check:

      -Delta < (TSrt - TS) < +Delta

The Delta interval is a conﬁgurable parameter. The default value for the allowed Delta is 2
seconds. Special care should be taken when setting very low Delta values as this may lead to
dropping legitimate traﬃc. If the timestamp is not within the boundaries, then the SFC data plane
element receiving such packets

 discard the NSH message.

MUST

Replay attacks within the Delta window may be detected by an NSH-aware node by recording a
unique value derived from the packet, such as a unique value from the MAC ﬁeld value. Such an
NSH-aware node will detect and reject duplicates. If for legitimate service reasons some ﬂows
have to be duplicated but still share a portion of an SFP with the original ﬂow, legitimate duplicate
packets will be tagged by NSH-aware nodes involved in that segment as replay packets unless
suﬃcient entropy is added to the duplicate packet. How such an entropy is added is
implementation speciﬁc.

Note: Within the timestamp Delta window, deﬁning a sequence number to protect against
replay attacks may be considered. In such a mode, NSH-aware nodes must discard packets
with duplicate sequence numbers within the timestamp Delta window. However, in
deployments with several instances of the same SF (e.g., cluster or load-balanced SFs), a
mechanism to coordinate among those instances to discard duplicate sequence numbers is
required. Because the coordination mechanism to comply with this requirement is service
speciﬁc, this document does not include this protection.

All SFC data plane elements must be synchronized among themselves. These elements may be
synchronized to a global reference time.

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9145

Integrity Protection for the NSH

December 2021

7.5.  NSH Data Validation

When an SFC data plane element that conforms to this speciﬁcation needs to check the validity
of the NSH data, it
in a received NSH packet. The imposer
least once per the SPI if at least one of the following is observed:

 ensure that a "MAC and Encrypted Metadata" Context Header is included
 silently discard the packet and

 log an error at

MUST

MUST

MUST

•

the "MAC and Encrypted Metadata" Context Header is missing,

•

the enclosed key identiﬁer is unknown or invalid (e.g., the corresponding key expired), or

•

the timestamp is invalid (Section 7.4).

If the timestamp check is successfully passed, the SFC data plane element proceeds with NSH data
integrity validation. After storing the value of the MAC ﬁeld in the "MAC and Encrypted Metadata"
Context Header, the SFC data plane element ﬁlls the MAC ﬁeld with zeros. Then, the SFC data
plane element generates the message integrity for the target NSH data (depending on the
integrity-protection scope discussed in Section 5) using the MAC_KEY and HMAC algorithm. If the
value of the newly generated digest is identical to the stored one, the SFC data plane element is
certain that the NSH data has not been tampered with and validation is therefore successful.
Otherwise, the NSH packet
the stored value

 be discarded. The comparison of the computed HMAC value to

 be done in a constant-time manner to thwart timing attacks.

MUST

MUST

7.6.  Decryption of NSH Metadata

If entitled to consume a supplied encrypted Context Header, an NSH-aware SF or SFC Proxy
decrypts metadata using (K) and a decryption algorithm for the key identiﬁer in the NSH.

The authenticated encryption algorithm has only a single output, either a plaintext or a special
symbol (FAIL) that indicates that the inputs are not authentic (

Section 2.2 of [RFC5116]

).

8.  MTU Considerations

The SFC architecture prescribes that additional information be added to packets to:

•

Identify SFPs: this is typically the NSH Base Header and Service Path Header.

•

Carry metadata such as that deﬁned in Section 5.

•

Steer the traﬃc along the SFPs: This is realized by means of transport encapsulation.

This added information increases the size of the packet to be carried along an SFP.

Section 5 of [RFC8300]

Aligned with
underlying MTU so that NSH traﬃc is forwarded within an SFC-enabled domain without
fragmentation. The available underlying MTU should be taken into account by network
operators when providing SFs with the required Context Headers to be injected per SFP and the
size of the data to be carried in these Context Headers.

 that network operators increase the

RECOMMENDED

, it is

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9145

Integrity Protection for the NSH

December 2021

If the underlying MTU cannot be increased to accommodate the NSH overhead, network
operators may rely upon a transport encapsulation protocol with the required fragmentation
handling. The impact of activating such features on SFFs should be carefully assessed by network
operators (

Section 5.6 of [RFC7665]

).

When dealing with MTU issues, network operators should consider the limitations of various
tunnel mechanisms such as those discussed in

[INTERNET-IP-TUNNELS]

.

9.  Security Considerations

 and

Section 8 of [RFC8300]

Data plane SFC-related security considerations, including privacy, are discussed in
[RFC7665]
. In particular,
metadata (i.e., Context Headers) should be limited to that which is necessary for correct
operation of the SFP. Also, that section indicates that
considerations that operators can take into account when using NSH.

Section 8.2.2 of [RFC8300]

 discusses metadata

[RFC8165]

Section 6 of

 states that attached

The guidelines for cryptographic key management are discussed in
management protocol-related security considerations discussed in
be taken into consideration.

[RFC4107]
Section 8 of [RFC4046]

. The group key

 need to

The interaction between the SFC data plane elements and a key management system
be transmitted unencrypted since this would completely destroy the security beneﬁts of the
integrity-protection solution deﬁned in this document.

MUST NOT

The secret key (K) must have an expiration time assigned as the latest point in time before which
the key may be used for integrity protection of NSH data and encryption of Context Headers.
Prior to the expiration of the secret key, all participating NSH-aware nodes
 have the
control plane distribute a new key identiﬁer and associated keying material so that when the
secret key is expired, those nodes are prepared with the new secret key. This allows the NSH
imposer to switch to the new key identiﬁer as soon as necessary. It is
 that the next
key identiﬁer and associated keying material be distributed by the control plane well prior to the
secret key expiration time. Additional guidance for users of AEAD functions about rekeying can
be found in

[AEAD-LIMITS]

RECOMMENDED

SHOULD

.

The security and integrity of the key-distribution mechanism is vital to the security of the SFC
system as a whole.

NSH data is exposed to several threats:

•

An on-path attacker modifying the NSH data.

•

An attacker spooﬁng the NSH data.

•

An attacker capturing and replaying the NSH data.

•

Data carried in Context Headers revealing privacy-sensitive information to attackers.

•

An attacker replacing the packet on which the NSH is imposed with a modiﬁed or bogus
packet.

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9145

Integrity Protection for the NSH

December 2021

In an SFC-enabled domain where the above attacks are possible, (1) NSH data
protected and replay protected, and (2) privacy-sensitive NSH metadata
MUST
conﬁdentiality preservation purposes. The Base and Service Path Headers are not encrypted.

 be integrity
MUST
 be encrypted for

MACs with two levels of assurance are deﬁned in Section 5. Considerations speciﬁc to each level
of assurance are discussed in Sections 9.1 and 9.2.

[ARCH-SFC-THREATS]

The attacks discussed in
document, with the exception of attacks dropping packets. Such attacks can be detected by
relying upon statistical analysis; such analysis is out of the scope of this document. Also, if SFFs
are not involved in the integrity checks, a misbehaving SFF that decrements SI while this should
be done by an SF (SF bypass attack) will be detected by an upstream SF because the integrity
check will fail.

 are handled based on the solution speciﬁed in this

Some events are logged locally with notiﬁcation alerts sent by NSH-aware nodes to a Control
Element. These events

 be rate limited.

SHOULD

The solution speciﬁed in this document does not provide data origin authentication.

In order to detect compromised nodes, it is assumed that appropriate mechanisms to monitor
and audit an SFC-enabled domain to detect misbehavior and to deter misuse are in place.
Compromised nodes can thus be withdrawn from active service function chains using
appropriate control plane mechanisms.

9.1.  MAC#1

An active attacker can potentially modify the Base Header (e.g., decrement the TTL so the next
SFF in the SFP discards the NSH packet). An active attacker can typically also drop NSH packets.
As such, this attack is not considered an attack against the security mechanism speciﬁed in the
document.

It is expected that speciﬁc devices in the SFC-enabled domain will be conﬁgured such that no
device other than the Classiﬁers (when reclassiﬁcation is enabled), NSH-aware SFs, and SFC
proxies will be able to update the integrity-protected NSH data (Section 7.1), and no device other
than the NSH-aware SFs and SFC proxies will be able to decrypt and update the Context Headers
carrying sensitive metadata (Section 7.1). In other words, it is expected that the NSH-aware SFs
and SFC proxies in the SFC-enabled domain are considered fully trusted to act on the NSH data.
Only these elements can have access to sensitive NSH metadata and the keying material used to
integrity protect NSH data and encrypt Context Headers.

9.2.  MAC#2

SFFs can detect whether an illegitimate node has altered the content of the Base Header. Such
messages must be discarded with appropriate logs and alarms generated (see Section 7.1).

Similar to Section 9.1, no device other than the NSH-aware SFs and SFC proxies in the SFC-enabled
domain should be able to decrypt and update the Context Headers carrying sensitive metadata.

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9145

Integrity Protection for the NSH

December 2021

9.3.  Time Synchronization

[RFC8633]
elements use NTP for time-synchronization purposes.

 describes best current practices to be considered in deployments where SFC data plane

Also, a mechanism to provide cryptographic security for NTP is speciﬁed in

[RFC8915]

.

10.  IANA Considerations

IANA has added the following types to the "NSH IETF-Assigned Optional Variable-Length
Metadata Types" registry (0x0000 IETF Base NSH MD Class) at
.
assignments/nsh>

<https://www.iana.org/

Value Description

Reference

0x02

MAC and Encrypted Metadata #1

RFC 9145

0x03

MAC and Encrypted Metadata #2

RFC 9145

Table 4: Additions to the NSH IETF-Assigned Optional
Variable-Length Metadata Types Registry

11.  References

11.1.  Normative References

[GCM]

[RFC2104]

[RFC2119]

[RFC4107]

[RFC4868]

,

Dworkin, M. "Recommendation for Block Cipher Modes of Operation: Galois/
Counter Mode (GCM) and GMAC" NIST Special Publication 800-38D DOI 10.6028/
NIST.SP.800-38D

,
.
<https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-38D>

, November 2007,

,

,

Krawczyk, H. Bellare, M.
,
Authentication" RFC 2104 DOI 10.17487/RFC2104
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2104>

, and
,

,

R. Canetti "HMAC: Keyed-Hashing for Message

, February 1997,

<https://

,

,
Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
.
rfc2119>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

 and

Bellovin, S.
BCP 107 RFC 4107 DOI 10.17487/RFC4107
.
info/rfc4107>

,
R. Housley "Guidelines for Cryptographic Key Management"
, June 2005,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

,

,

,

S. Frankel "Using HMAC-SHA-256, HMAC-SHA-384, and HMAC-

 and

Kelly, S.
SHA-512 with IPsec" RFC 4868 DOI 10.17487/RFC4868
.
editor.org/info/rfc4868>

,

,

,

, May 2007,

<https://www.rfc-

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9145

Integrity Protection for the NSH

December 2021

[RFC5116]

[RFC7665]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8300]

,

McGrew, D. "An Interface and Algorithms for Authenticated Encryption" RFC
5116 DOI 10.17487/RFC5116
,
rfc5116>
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, January 2008,

,

 and

Halpern, J., Ed.
,
,
Architecture" RFC 7665 DOI 10.17487/RFC7665
.
editor.org/info/rfc7665>

,

C. Pignataro, Ed. "Service Function Chaining (SFC)

, October 2015,

<https://www.rfc-

,
,
Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
.
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,
Quinn, P., Ed. Elzur, U., Ed.
(NSH)" RFC 8300 DOI 10.17487/RFC8300
.
editor.org/info/rfc8300>

, and

,

,

,
, January 2018,

C. Pignataro, Ed. "Network Service Header

<https://www.rfc-

11.2.  Informative References

[AEAD-LIMITS]

Günther, F. Thomson, M.

,

, and

,
C. A. Wood "Usage Limits on AEAD Algorithms"

,

, 12 July 2021,
Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-irtf-cfrg-aead-limits-03
.
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-irtf-cfrg-aead-limits-03>

,

[ARCH-SFC-THREATS]

THANG, N. C.

 and

M. Park "A Security Architecture Against Service

,

Function Chaining Threats" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-nguyen-sfc-
security-architecture-00
.
html/draft-nguyen-sfc-security-architecture-00>

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/

, 24 November 2019,

,

,

[INTERNET-IP-TUNNELS]

 and

,
M. Townsley "IP Tunnels in the Internet Architecture"

,

Touch, J.
,

Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-intarea-tunnels-10
2019,

.
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-intarea-tunnels-10>

, 12 September

[INTERNET-THREAT-MODEL]
,

 and

Arkko, J.

,
S. Farrell "Challenges and Changes in the Internet
Threat Model" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-arkko-farrell-arch-model-
t-04
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-arkko-farrell-arch-
.
model-t-04>

, 13 July 2020,

,

[RFC4046]

[RFC5905]

[RFC6973]

[RFC7258]

,

Baugher, M. Canetti, R. Dondeti, L.
Group Key Management Architecture" RFC 4046 DOI 10.17487/RFC4046
2005,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4046>

, and
,

F. Lindholm "Multicast Security (MSEC)

, April

,

,

,

,

, and
W. Kasch "Network Time Protocol
Mills, D. Martin, J., Ed. Burbank, J.
Version 4: Protocol and Algorithms Speciﬁcation" RFC 5905 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5905

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5905>

, June 2010,

,
,

,

,

,
Cooper, A. Tschofenig, H. Aboba, B. Peterson, J. Morris, J. Hansen, M.
Smith "Privacy Considerations for Internet Protocols" RFC 6973 DOI 10.17487/
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6973>
RFC6973

, July 2013,

, and

R.

,

,

,

,

,

,

Farrell, S.
,
7258 DOI 10.17487/RFC7258

H. Tschofenig "Pervasive Monitoring Is an Attack" BCP 188 RFC
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7258>

,
, May 2014,

 and

,

,

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9145

Integrity Protection for the NSH

December 2021

[RFC7498]

[RFC7635]

[RFC8165]

[RFC8459]

[RFC8633]

[RFC8877]

[RFC8915]

 and

Quinn, P., Ed.
Chaining" RFC 7498 DOI 10.17487/RFC7498
,
editor.org/info/rfc7498>
.

,

,

T. Nadeau, Ed. "Problem Statement for Service Function

, April 2015,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Reddy, T. Patil, P. Ravindranath, R.
,
NAT (STUN) Extension for Third-Party Authorization" RFC 7635 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7635

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7635>
.

J. Uberti "Session Traversal Utilities for

, August 2015,

, and

,

,

Hardie, T. "Design Considerations for Metadata Insertion" RFC 8165 DOI
10.17487/RFC8165

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8165>

, May 2017,

,

,

,

Dolson, D. Homma, S. Lopez, D.
Function Chaining (hSFC)" RFC 8459 DOI 10.17487/RFC8459
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8459>

, and
M. Boucadair "Hierarchical Service
,

, September 2018,

,

,

,

,
Reilly, D. Stenn, H.
Practices" BCP 223 RFC 8633 DOI 10.17487/RFC8633
.
editor.org/info/rfc8633>

, and
,

,

,

,

D. Sibold "Network Time Protocol Best Current

, July 2019,

<https://www.rfc-

,
, and
Mizrahi, T. Fabini, J.
,
Timestamps" RFC 8877 DOI 10.17487/RFC8877
.
editor.org/info/rfc8877>

,

,

A. Morton "Guidelines for Deﬁning Packet

, September 2020,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Franke, D. Sibold, D. Teichel, K. Dansarie, M.
,
Security for the Network Time Protocol" RFC 8915 DOI 10.17487/RFC8915
September 2020,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8915>

, and
R. Sundblad "Network Time
,

,

,

,

,

Acknowledgements

This document was created as a follow-up to the discussion in IETF 104:
datatracker.ietf.org/meeting/104/materials/slides-104-sfc-sfc-chair-slides-01>

<https://

 (slide 7).

Thanks to
Lopez Greg Mirsky

,

,
, and

Dhruv Dhody

 for the comments.

Joel Halpern Christian Jacquenet Dirk von Hugo Tal Mizrahi Daniel Migault Diego

,

,

,

,

Many thanks to
opsdir review.

Steve Hanna

 for the valuable secdir review and

Juergen Schoenwaelder

 for the

Thanks to

Greg Mirsky

 for the

.
Shepherd review

Alvaro Retana Lars Eggert Martin Duke Erik Kline Zaheduzzaman Sarker Éric

,

Thanks to
Vyncke Roman Danyliw Murray Kucherawy John Scudder
review.

,
,

,

,

,

,

,
, and

Benjamin Kaduk

 for the IESG

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9145

Integrity Protection for the NSH

December 2021

Authors' Addresses

Mohamed Boucadair
Orange
35000 Rennes
France
Email:

 mohamed.boucadair@orange.com

Tirumaleswar Reddy.K
Akamai
Embassy Golf Link Business Park
Bangalore 560071
Karnataka
India
Email:

 kondtir@gmail.com

Dan Wing
Citrix Systems, Inc.
United States of America
Email:

 dwing-ietf@fuggles.com

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

