Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9134
Standards Track
October 2021
2070-1721
T. Bruylants
intoPIX

A. Descampe
UCLouvain

C. Damman
intoPIX

T. Richter
Fraunhofer IIS

RFC 9134
RTP Payload Format for ISO/IEC 21122 (JPEG XS)

Abstract

This document speciﬁes a Real-Time Transport Protocol (RTP) payload format to be used for
transporting video encoded with JPEG XS (ISO/IEC 21122). JPEG XS is a low-latency, lightweight
image coding system. Compared to an uncompressed video use case, it allows higher resolutions
and video frame rates while oﬀering visually lossless quality, reduced power consumption, and
encoding-decoding latency conﬁned to a fraction of a video frame.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

.
https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9134

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

Bruylants, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9134

RTP Payload Format for JPEG XS

October 2021

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Conventions, Deﬁnitions, and Abbreviations

3.  Media Format Description

3.1.  Image Data Structures

3.2.  Codestream

3.3.  Video Support Box and Color Speciﬁcation Box

3.4.  JPEG XS Frame

4.  RTP Payload Format

4.1.  RTP Packetization

4.2.  RTP Header Usage

4.3.  Payload Header Usage

4.4.  Payload Data

5.  Traﬃc Shaping and Delivery Timing

6.  Congestion Control Considerations

7.  Payload Format Parameters

7.1.  Media Type Registration

8.  SDP Parameters

8.1.  Mapping of Payload Type Parameters to SDP

8.2.  Usage with SDP Oﬀer/Answer Model

9.  IANA Considerations

10. Security Considerations

11. References

11.1.  Normative References

11.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

Bruylants, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9134

RTP Payload Format for JPEG XS

October 2021

1.  Introduction

This document speciﬁes a payload format for packetization of video signals encoded with
XS [ISO21122-1]

Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP) [RFC3550]

 into the

.

JPEG

The JPEG XS coding system oﬀers compression and recompression of image sequences with very
moderate computational resources while remaining robust under multiple compression and
decompression cycles as well as mixing of content sources, e.g., embedding of subtitles, overlays,
or logos. Typical target compression ratios ensuring visually lossless quality are in the range of
2:1 to 10:1 depending on the nature of the source material. The latency that is introduced by the
encoding-decoding process can be conﬁned to a fraction of a video frame, typically between a
small number of lines down to below a single line.

2.  Conventions, Deﬁnitions, and Abbreviations

The key words "
", "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
", "
"
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

Application Data Unit (ADU):

The unit of source data provided as payload to the transport layer. In this RTP payload
deﬁnition, it corresponds to a single JPEG XS video frame.

Color Speciﬁcation (CS) box:

An ISO color speciﬁcation box deﬁned in
[ISO21122-3]
related metadata required to correctly display JPEG XS video frames, such as color primaries,
transfer characteristics, and matrix coeﬃcients.

 (JPEG XS Part 3) that includes color-

End of Codestream (EOC) marker:

A marker that consists of the two bytes 0xﬀ11 indicating the end of a JPEG XS codestream.

JPEG XS codestream:

A sequence of bytes representing a compressed image formatted according to
(JPEG XS Part 1).

[ISO21122-1]

JPEG XS codestream header:

A sequence of bytes, starting with an SOC marker, at the beginning of each JPEG XS
codestream encoded in multiple markers and marker segments that does not carry entropy
coded data, but metadata such as the video frame dimension and component precision.

JPEG XS frame:

In the case of progressive video, a single JPEG XS picture segment. In the case of interlaced
video, the concatenation of two JPEG XS picture segments.

Bruylants, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9134

RTP Payload Format for JPEG XS

October 2021

JPEG XS header segment:

The concatenation of a
and a JPEG XS codestream header.

video support box [ISO21122-3]

, a

color speciﬁcation box [ISO21122-3]

,

JPEG XS picture segment:

The concatenation of a
and a JPEG XS codestream.

video support box [ISO21122-3]

, a

color speciﬁcation box [ISO21122-3]

,

JPEG XS stream:

A sequence of JPEG XS frames.

Marker:

A two-byte functional sequence that is part of a JPEG XS codestream starting with a 0xﬀ byte
and a subsequent byte deﬁning its function.

Marker segment:

A marker along with a 16-bit marker size and payload data following the size.

Packetization unit:

A portion of an ADU whose boundaries coincide with boundaries of RTP packet payloads
(excluding payload header), i.e., the ﬁrst (or respectively, last) byte of a packetization unit is
the ﬁrst (or respectively, last) byte of an RTP packet payload (excluding its payload header).

SLH (SLice Header) marker:

A marker that represents a slice header, as deﬁned in

[ISO21122-1]

.

Slice:

The smallest independently decodable unit of a JPEG XS codestream, bearing in mind that it
decodes to wavelet coeﬃcients, which still require inverse wavelet ﬁltering to give an image.

Start of a Codestream (SOC) marker:

A marker that consists of the two bytes 0xﬀ10 indicating the start of a JPEG XS codestream.
The SOC marker is considered an integral part of the JPEG XS codestream header.

Video Support (VS) box:

An ISO video support box, as deﬁned in
[ISO21122-3]
back a JPEG XS stream; such metadata could include its maximum bit rate, its subsampling
structure, its buﬀer model, and its frame rate.

, that includes metadata required to play

3.  Media Format Description

This section explains the terminology and concepts used in this memo speciﬁc to JPEG XS as
speciﬁed in

[ISO21122-1] [ISO21122-2]
,

[ISO21122-3]

, and

.

3.1.  Image Data Structures

JPEG XS is a low-latency, lightweight image coding system for coding continuous-tone grayscale
or continuous-tone color digital images.

Bruylants, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9134

RTP Payload Format for JPEG XS

October 2021

This coding system provides an eﬃcient representation of image signals through the
mathematical tool of wavelet analysis. The wavelet ﬁlter process separates each component into
multiple bands, where each band consists of multiple coeﬃcients describing the image signal of a
given component within a frequency domain speciﬁc to the wavelet ﬁlter type, i.e., the particular
ﬁlter corresponding to the band.

Wavelet coeﬃcients are grouped into precincts, where each precinct includes all coeﬃcients over
all bands that contribute to a spatial region of the image.

One or multiple precincts are furthermore combined into slices consisting of an integer number
of precincts. Precincts do not cross slice boundaries, and wavelet coeﬃcients in precincts that are
part of diﬀerent slices can be decoded independently of each other. However, note that the
wavelet transformation runs across slice boundaries. A slice always extends over the full width of
the image but may only cover parts of its height.

3.2.  Codestream

A JPEG XS codestream is formed by (in the given order):

•

a JPEG XS codestream header, which starts with a Start of Codestream (SOC) marker,

•

one or more slices,

•

an EOC marker to signal the end of the codestream.

The JPEG XS codestream format, including the deﬁnition of all markers, is further deﬁned in
[ISO21122-1]
a color space.

. It represents sample values of a single image, without any interpretation relative to

3.3.  Video Support Box and Color Speciﬁcation Box

While the information deﬁned in the codestream is suﬃcient to reconstruct the sample values of
one image, the interpretation of the samples remains undeﬁned by the codestream itself. This
interpretation is given by the video support box and the color speciﬁcation box, which contain
signiﬁcant information to correctly play the JPEG XS stream. The layout and syntax of these
boxes, together with their content, are deﬁned in

[ISO21122-3]

.

The video support box provides information on the maximum bit rate, the frame rate, the
interlaced mode (progressive or interlaced), the subsampling image format, the informative
timecode of the current JPEG XS frame, the proﬁle, the level/sublevel used, and optionally the
buﬀer model and the mastering display metadata.

, specify limits on the capabilities needed to decode the codestream and handle the

Note that the proﬁle and level/sublevel, speciﬁed respectively by the
[ISO21122-2]
output. Proﬁles represent a limit on the required algorithmic features and parameter ranges used
in the codestream. The combination of level and sublevel deﬁnes a lower bound on the required
throughput for a decoder in the image (or decoded) domain and the codestream (or coded)
domain, respectively. The actual deﬁned proﬁles and levels/sublevels, along with the associated
values for the Ppih and Plev ﬁelds, are deﬁned in

Ppih and Plev ﬁelds

[ISO21122-2]

.

Bruylants, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9134

RTP Payload Format for JPEG XS

October 2021

The color speciﬁcation box indicates the color primaries, transfer characteristics, matrix
coeﬃcients, and video full range ﬂag needed to specify the color space of the video stream.

3.4.  JPEG XS Frame

The concatenation of a video support box, a color speciﬁcation box, and a JPEG XS codestream
forms a JPEG XS picture segment.

In the case of a progressive video stream, each JPEG XS frame consists of one single JPEG XS
picture segment.

In the case of an interlaced video stream, each JPEG XS frame is made of two concatenated JPEG
XS picture segments. The codestream of each picture segment corresponds exclusively to one of
the two ﬁelds of the interlaced frame. Both picture segments
 contain identical boxes (i.e.,
the byte sequence that contains the concatenation of the video support box and the color
speciﬁcation box is exactly the same in both picture segments of the frame).

SHALL

Note that the interlaced mode, as signaled by the
 in the video support box,
indicates either progressive interlaced top-ﬁeld-ﬁrst or interlaced bottom-ﬁeld-ﬁrst mode. Thus,
in the case of interlaced content, its value

 also be identical in both picture segments.

frat ﬁeld [ISO21122-3]

SHALL

4.  RTP Payload Format

This section speciﬁes the payload format for JPEG XS streams over the
Protocol (RTP) [RFC3550]

.

Real-time Transport

In order to be transported over RTP, each JPEG XS stream is transported in a distinct RTP stream,
identiﬁed by a distinct

synchronization source (SSRC) [RFC3550]

.

A JPEG XS stream is divided into Application Data Units (ADUs), each ADU corresponding to a
single JPEG XS frame.

4.1.  RTP Packetization

An ADU is made of several packetization units. If a packetization unit is bigger than the
maximum size of an RTP packet payload, the unit is split into multiple RTP packet payloads, as
illustrated in Figure 1. As seen there, each packet
packetization unit. A packetization unit may extend over multiple packets. The payload of every
packet
the possible exception of the last packet of a packetization unit. The boundaries of a
packetization unit
payload header), i.e., the ﬁrst (or, respectively, last) byte of the packetization unit
ﬁrst (or, respectively, last) byte of the payload (excluding its header).

 coincide with the boundaries of the payload of a packet (excluding the

 have the same size (based, e.g., on the Maximum Transfer Unit of the network) with

 contain (part of) one, and only one,

 be the

SHALL

SHALL

SHALL

SHALL

Bruylants, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9134

RTP Payload Format for JPEG XS

October 2021

RTP        +-----+------------------------+
Packet #1  | Hdr | Packetization unit #1  |
           +-----+------------------------+
RTP        +-----+--------------------------------------+
Packet #2  | Hdr | Packetization unit #2                |
           +-----+--------------------------------------+
RTP        +-----+--------------------------------------------------+
Packet #3  | Hdr | Packetization unit #3  (part 1/3)                |
           +-----+--------------------------------------------------+
RTP        +-----+--------------------------------------------------+
Packet #4  | Hdr | Packetization unit #3  (part 2/3)                |
           +-----+--------------------------------------------------+
RTP        +-----+----------------------------------------------+
Packet #5  | Hdr | Packetization unit #3  (part 3/3)            |
           +-----+----------------------------------------------+
             ...
RTP        +-----+-----------------------------------------+
Packet #P  | Hdr | Packetization unit #N  (part q/q)       |
           +-----+-----------------------------------------+

Figure 1: Example of ADU Packetization

There are two diﬀerent packetization modes deﬁned for this RTP payload format.

Codestream packetization mode:

In this mode, the packetization unit
codestream preceded by boxes). This means that a progressive frame will have a single
packetization unit, while an interlaced frame will have two. The progressive case is illustrated
in Figure 2.

 be the entire JPEG XS picture segment (i.e.,

SHALL

Slice packetization mode:

SHALL

 be the slice, i.e., there
SHALL

In this mode, the packetization unit
than one slice per RTP packet. The ﬁrst packetization unit
header segment (i.e., the concatenation of the VS box, the CS box, and the JPEG XS codestream
header). This ﬁrst unit is then followed by successive units, each containing one and only one
slice. The packetization unit containing the last slice of a JPEG XS codestream
contain the EOC marker immediately following this last slice. This is illustrated in Figure 3. In
the case of an interlaced frame, the JPEG XS header segment of the second ﬁeld
own packetization unit.

SHALL
 be made of the JPEG XS

 be data from no more

SHALL

SHALL

 also

 be in its

Bruylants, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9134

RTP Payload Format for JPEG XS

October 2021

RTP        +-----+--------------------------------------------------+
Packet #1  | Hdr | VS box + CS box + JPEG XS codestream (part 1/q)  |
           +-----+--------------------------------------------------+
RTP        +-----+--------------------------------------------------+
Packet #2  | Hdr | JPEG XS codestream (part 2/q)                    |
           +-----+--------------------------------------------------+
             ...
RTP        +-----+--------------------------------------+
Packet #P  | Hdr | JPEG XS codestream (part q/q)        |
           +-----+--------------------------------------+

Figure 2: Example of Codestream Packetization Mode

RTP        +-----+----------------------------+
Packet #1  | Hdr | JPEG XS header segment     |
           +-----+----------------------------+
RTP        +-----+--------------------------------------------------+
Packet #2  | Hdr | Slice #1  (part 1/2)                             |
           +-----+--------------------------------------------------+
RTP        +-----+-------------------------------------------+
Packet #3  | Hdr | Slice #1  (part 2/2)                      |
           +-----+-------------------------------------------+
RTP        +-----+--------------------------------------------------+
Packet #4  | Hdr | Slice #2  (part 1/3)                             |
           +-----+--------------------------------------------------+
             ...
RTP        +-----+---------------------------------------+
Packet #P  | Hdr | Slice #N  (part q/q) + EOC marker     |
           +-----+---------------------------------------+

Figure 3: Example of Slice Packetization Mode

In a constant bitrate (CBR) scenario of JPEG XS, the codestream packetization mode guarantees
that a JPEG XS RTP stream will produce both a constant number of bytes per video frame and a
constant number of RTP packets per video frame. However, to provide similar guarantees with
JPEG XS in a variable bitrate (VBR) mode or when using the slice packetization mode (for either
CBR or VBR), additional mechanisms are needed. This can involve a constraint at the rate
allocation stage in the JPEG XS encoder to impose a CBR at the slice level, the usage of padding
data, or the insertion of empty RTP packets (i.e., an RTP packet whose payload data is empty). But,
management of the amount of produced packets per video frame is application dependent and
not a strict requirement of this RTP payload speciﬁcation.

4.2.  RTP Header Usage

The format of the RTP header is speciﬁed in
This RTP payload format uses the ﬁelds of the header in a manner consistent with that
speciﬁcation.

[RFC3550]

 and reprinted in Figure 4 for convenience.

The RTP payload (and the settings for some RTP header bits) for packetization units are speciﬁed
in Section 4.3.

Bruylants, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9134

RTP Payload Format for JPEG XS

October 2021

    0                   1                   2                   3
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |V=2|P|X|  CC   |M|     PT      |       sequence number         |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                           timestamp                           |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |           synchronization source (SSRC) identifier            |
   +=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+
   |            contributing source (CSRC) identifiers             |
   |                             ....                              |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 4: RTP Header According to RFC 3550

The version (V), padding (P), extension (X), CSRC count (CC), sequence number, synchronization
source (SSRC), and contributing source (CSRC) ﬁelds follow their respective deﬁnitions in
[RFC3550]

.

The remaining RTP header information to be set according to this RTP payload format is set as
follows:

Marker (M) [1 bit]:

If progressive scan video is being transmitted, the marker bit denotes the end of a video frame.
 be
If interlaced video is being transmitted, it denotes the end of the ﬁeld. The marker bit
set to 1 for the last packet of the video frame/ﬁeld. It

 be set to 0 for all other packets.

SHALL

SHALL

Payload Type (PT) [7 bits]:

The payload type is a dynamically allocated payload type ﬁeld that designates the payload as
JPEG XS video.

Timestamp [32 bits]:

The RTP timestamp is set to the sampling timestamp of the content. A 90 kHz clock rate
be used.

SHALL

 and

[RFC3550]

[RFC4175]

, the RTP timestamp designates the sampling instant of

As speciﬁed in
the ﬁrst octet of the video frame to which the RTP packet belongs. Packets
SHALL NOT
data from multiple video frames, and all packets belonging to the same video frame
have the same timestamp. Several successive RTP packets will consequently have equal
timestamps if they belong to the same video frame (that is until the marker bit is set to 1,
marking the last packet of the video frame), and the timestamp is only increased when a new
video frame begins.

 include
SHALL

If the sampling instant does not correspond to an integer value of the clock, the value
be truncated to the next lowest integer, with no ambiguity.

SHALL

Bruylants, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9134

RTP Payload Format for JPEG XS

October 2021

4.3.  Payload Header Usage

The ﬁrst four bytes of the payload of an RTP packet in this RTP payload format are referred to as
the "payload header". Figure 5 illustrates the structure of this payload header.

    0                   1                   2                   3
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |T|K|L| I |F counter|     SEP counter     |     P counter       |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 5: Payload Header

The payload header consists of the following ﬁelds:

Transmission mode (T) [1 bit]:

The T bit is set to indicate that packets are sent sequentially by the transmitter. This
information allows a receiver to dimension its input buﬀer(s) accordingly. If T=0, nothing can
be assumed about the transmission order and packets may be sent out of order by the
transmitter. If T=1, packets
SHALL

 be sent sequentially by the transmitter. The T-bit value

 be identical for all packets of the RTP stream.

SHALL

pacKetization mode (K) [1 bit]:

The K bit is set to indicate which packetization mode is used. K=0 indicates codestream
packetization mode, while K=1 indicates slice packetization mode. In the case that the
Transmission mode (T) is set to 0 (out of order), the slice packetization mode
and K
out-of-order packet transmission. The K-bit value
stream.

 be used
 be set to 1. This is required because only the slice packetization mode supports
SHALL

 be identical for all packets of the RTP

SHALL

SHALL

Last (L) [1 bit]:

The L bit is set to indicate the last packet of a packetization unit. As the end of the video frame
also ends the packet containing the last unit of the video frame, the L bit is set whenever the M
bit is set. In the codestream packetization mode, the L bit and M bit get an equivalent
 have identical values in each packet.
meaning, so they

SHALL

Interlaced information (I) [2 bits]:

These two I bits are used to indicate how the JPEG XS frame is scanned (progressive or
interlaced). In case of an interlaced frame, they also indicate which JPEG XS picture segment
the payload is part of (ﬁrst or second).

00:

01:

The payload is progressively scanned.

This value is reserved for future use.

Bruylants, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9134

RTP Payload Format for JPEG XS

October 2021

10:

11:

The payload is part of the ﬁrst JPEG XS picture segment of an interlaced video frame.
The height speciﬁed in the included JPEG XS codestream header is half of the height of
the entire displayed image.

The payload is part of the second JPEG XS picture segment of an interlaced video frame.
The height speciﬁed in the included JPEG XS codestream header is half of the height of
the entire displayed image.

F counter [5 bits]:

The Frame (F) counter identiﬁes the video frame number modulo 32 to which a packet
belongs. Frame numbers are incremented by 1 for each video frame transmitted. The frame
number, in addition to the timestamp, may help the decoder manage its input buﬀer and bring
packets back into their natural order.

Slice and Extended Packet (SEP) counter [11 bits]:

The SEP counter is used diﬀerently depending on the packetization mode.

•

In the case of codestream packetization mode (K=0), this counter resets whenever the
Packet counter resets (see Section 4.4) and increments by 1 whenever the Packet counter
overruns.

•

In the case of slice packetization mode (K=1), this counter identiﬁes the slice modulo 2047
to which the packet contributes. If the data belongs to the JPEG XS header segment, this
ﬁeld
 have its maximal value, namely 2047 = 0x07ﬀ. Otherwise, it is the slice index
modulo 2047. Slice indices are counted from 0 (corresponding to the top of the video
frame).

SHALL

P counter [11 bits]:

The Packet (P) counter identiﬁes the packet number modulo 2048 within the current
packetization unit. It is set to 0 at the start of the packetization unit and incremented by 1 for
every subsequent packet (if any) belonging to the same unit. Practically, if codestream
packetization mode is enabled, this ﬁeld counts the packets within a JPEG XS picture segment
and is extended by the SEP counter when it overruns. If slice packetization mode is enabled,
this ﬁeld counts the packets within a slice or within the JPEG XS header segment.

4.4.  Payload Data

The payload data of a JPEG XS RTP stream consists of a concatenation of multiple JPEG XS
frames. Within the RTP stream, all of the video support boxes and all of the color speciﬁcation
boxes
SHALL
in the RTP stream
to change under the condition that their relative byte oﬀsets

 retain their respective layouts for each JPEG XS frame. Thus, each video support box
 deﬁne the same sub boxes. The eﬀective values in the boxes are allowed

SHALL NOT

 change.

SHALL

Bruylants, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9134

RTP Payload Format for JPEG XS

October 2021

Each JPEG XS frame is the concatenation of one or more packetization unit(s), as explained in
Section 4.1. Figure 6 depicts this layout for a progressive video frame in the codestream
packetization mode, Figure 7 depicts this layout for an interlaced video frame in the codestream
packetization mode, Figure 8 depicts this layout for a progressive video frame in the slice
packetization mode, and Figure 9 depicts this layout for an interlaced video frame in the slice
packetization mode. The Frame counter value is not indicated because the value is constant for
all packetization units of a given video frame.

+=====[ Packetization unit (PU) #1 ]====+
|           Video support box           |  SEP counter=0
|  +---------------------------------+  |  P counter=0
|  :      Sub boxes of the VS box    :  |
|  +---------------------------------+  |
+- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -+
|        Color specification box        |
|  +---------------------------------+  |
|  :      Fields of the CS box       :  |
|  +---------------------------------+  |
+- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -+
|          JPEG XS codestream           |
:             (part 1/q)                :  M=0, K=0, L=0, I=00
+---------------------------------------+
|          JPEG XS codestream           |  SEP counter=0
|             (part 2/q)                |  P counter=1
:                                       :  M=0, K=0, L=0, I=00
+---------------------------------------+
|          JPEG XS codestream           |  SEP counter=0
|             (part 3/q)                |  P counter=2
:                                       :  M=0, K=0, L=0, I=00
+---------------------------------------+
:                                       :
+---------------------------------------+
|          JPEG XS codestream           |  SEP counter=1
|            (part 2049/q)              |  P counter=0
:                                       :  M=0, K=0, L=0, I=00
+---------------------------------------+
:                                       :
+---------------------------------------+
|          JPEG XS codestream           |  SEP counter=(q-1) div 2048
|             (part q/q)                |  P counter=(q-1) mod 2048
:                                       :  M=1, K=0, L=1, I=00
+=======================================+

Figure 6: Example of JPEG XS Payload Data (Codestream Packetization Mode, Progressive Video
Frame)

Bruylants, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9134

RTP Payload Format for JPEG XS

October 2021

+=====[ Packetization unit (PU) #1 ]====+
|           Video support box           |  SEP counter=0
+- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -+  P counter=0
|        Color specification box        |
+- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -+
|     JPEG XS codestream (1st field)    |
:             (part 1/q)                :  M=0, K=0, L=0, I=10
+---------------------------------------+
|     JPEG XS codestream (1st field)    |  SEP counter=0
|             (part 2/q)                |  P counter=1
:                                       :  M=0, K=0, L=0, I=10
+---------------------------------------+
:                                       :
+---------------------------------------+
|     JPEG XS codestream (1st field)    |  SEP counter=1
|            (part 2049/q)              |  P counter=0
:                                       :  M=0, K=0, L=0, I=10
+---------------------------------------+
:                                       :
+---------------------------------------+
|     JPEG XS codestream (1st field)    |  SEP counter=(q-1) div 2048
|             (part q/q)                |  P counter=(q-1) mod 2048
:                                       :  M=1, K=0, L=1, I=10
+===============[ PU #2 ]===============+
|           Video support box           |  SEP counter=0
+- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -+  P counter=0
|        Color specification box        |
+- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -+
|     JPEG XS codestream (2nd field)    |
|             (part 1/q)                |
:                                       :  M=0, K=0, L=0, I=11
+---------------------------------------+
|     JPEG XS codestream (2nd field)    |  SEP counter=0
|             (part 2/q)                |  P counter=1
:                                       :  M=0, K=0, L=0, I=11
+---------------------------------------+
:                                       :
+---------------------------------------+
|     JPEG XS codestream (2nd field)    |  SEP counter=(q-1) div 2048
|             (part q/q)                |  P counter=(q-1) mod 2048
:                                       :  M=1, K=0, L=1, I=11
+=======================================+

Figure 7: Example of JPEG XS Payload Data (Codestream Packetization Mode, Interlaced Video
Frame)

Bruylants, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9134

RTP Payload Format for JPEG XS

October 2021

+===[ PU #1: JPEG XS Header segment ]===+
|           Video support box           |  SEP counter=0x07FF
+- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -+  P counter=0
|        Color specification box        |
+- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -+
|      JPEG XS codestream header        |
|  +---------------------------------+  |
|  :  Markers and marker segments    :  |
|  +---------------------------------+  |  M=0, T=0, K=1, L=1, I=00
+==========[ PU #2: Slice #1 ]==========+
|  +---------------------------------+  |  SEP counter=0
|  |           SLH Marker            |  |  P counter=0
|  +---------------------------------+  |
|  :       Entropy Coded Data        :  |
|  +---------------------------------+  |  M=0, T=0, K=1, L=1, I=00
+==========[ PU #3: Slice #2 ]==========+
|               Slice #2                |  SEP counter=1
|              (part 1/q)               |  P counter=0
:                                       :  M=0, T=0, K=1, L=0, I=00
+---------------------------------------+
|               Slice #2                |  SEP counter=1
|              (part 2/q)               |  P counter=1
:                                       :  M=0, T=0, K=1, L=0, I=00
+---------------------------------------+
:                                       :
+---------------------------------------+
|               Slice #2                |  SEP counter=1
|              (part q/q)               |  P counter=q-1
:                                       :  M=0, T=0, K=1, L=1, I=00
+=======================================+
:                                       :
+========[ PU #N: Slice #(N-1) ]========+
|             Slice #(N-1)              |  SEP counter=N-2
|              (part 1/r)               |  P counter=0
:                                       :  M=0, T=0, K=1, L=0, I=00
+---------------------------------------+
:                                       :
+---------------------------------------+
|             Slice #(N-1)              |  SEP counter=N-2
|              (part r/r)               |  P counter=r-1
:             + EOC marker              :  M=1, T=0, K=1, L=1, I=00
+=======================================+

Figure 8: Example of JPEG XS Payload Data (Slice Packetization Mode, Progressive Video Frame)

Bruylants, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9134

RTP Payload Format for JPEG XS

October 2021

+====[ PU #1: JPEG XS Hdr segment 1 ]===+
|           Video support box           |  SEP counter=0x07FF
+- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -+  P counter=0
|        Color specification box        |
+- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -+
|      JPEG XS codestream header 1      |
|  +---------------------------------+  |
|  :   Markers and marker segments   :  |
|  +---------------------------------+  |  M=0, T=0, K=1, L=1, I=10
+====[ PU #2: Slice #1 (1st field) ]====+
|  +---------------------------------+  |  SEP counter=0
|  |           SLH Marker            |  |  P counter=0
|  +---------------------------------+  |
|  :       Entropy Coded Data        :  |
|  +---------------------------------+  |  M=0, T=0, K=1, L=1, I=10
+====[ PU #3: Slice #2 (1st field) ]====+
|              Slice #2                 |  SEP counter=1
|             (part 1/q)                |  P counter=0
:                                       :  M=0, T=0, K=1, L=0, I=10
+---------------------------------------+
|              Slice #2                 |  SEP counter=1
|             (part 2/q)                |  P counter=1
:                                       :  M=0, T=0, K=1, L=0, I=10
+---------------------------------------+
:                                       :
+---------------------------------------+
|              Slice #2                 |  SEP counter=1
|             (part q/q)                |  P counter=q-1
:                                       :  M=0, T=0, K=1, L=1, I=10
+=======================================+
:                                       :
+==[ PU #N: Slice #(N-1) (1st field) ]==+
|            Slice #(N-1)               |  SEP counter=N-2
|             (part 1/r)                |  P counter=0
:                                       :  M=0, T=0, K=1, L=0, I=10
+---------------------------------------+
:                                       :
+---------------------------------------+
|            Slice #(N-1)               |  SEP counter=N-2
|             (part r/r)                |  P counter=r-1
:            + EOC marker               :  M=1, T=0, K=1, L=1, I=10
+=======================================+
+===[ PU #N+1: JPEG XS Hdr segment 2 ]==+
|           Video support box           |  SEP counter=0x07FF
+- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -+  P counter=0
|        Color specification box        |
+- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -+
|       JPEG XS codestream header 2     |
|  +---------------------------------+  |
|  :  Markers and marker segments    :  |
|  +---------------------------------+  |  M=0, T=0, K=1, L=1, I=11
+===[ PU #N+2: Slice #1 (2nd field) ]===+
|  +---------------------------------+  |  SEP counter=0
|  |           SLH Marker            |  |  P counter=0
|  +---------------------------------+  |
|  :      Entropy Coded Data         :  |
|  +---------------------------------+  |  M=0, T=0, K=1, L=1, I=11

Bruylants, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9134

RTP Payload Format for JPEG XS

October 2021

+===[ PU #N+3: Slice #2 (2nd field) ]===+
|               Slice #2                |  SEP counter=1
|              (part 1/s)               |  P counter=0
:                                       :  M=0, T=0, K=1, L=0, I=11
+---------------------------------------+
|               Slice #2                |  SEP counter=1
|              (part 2/s)               |  P counter=1
:                                       :  M=0, T=0, K=1, L=0, I=11
+---------------------------------------+
:                                       :
+---------------------------------------+
|               Slice #2                |  SEP counter=1
|              (part s/s)               |  P counter=s-1
:                                       :  M=0, T=0, K=1, L=1, I=11
+=======================================+
:                                       :
+==[ PU #2N: Slice #(N-1) (2nd field) ]=+
|             Slice #(N-1)              |  SEP counter=N-2
|              (part 1/t)               |  P counter=0
:                                       :  M=0, T=0, K=1, L=0, I=11
+---------------------------------------+
:                                       :
+---------------------------------------+
|             Slice #(N-1)              |  SEP counter=N-2
|              (part t/t)               |  P counter=t-1
:             + EOC marker              :  M=1, T=0, K=1, L=1, I=11
+=======================================+

Figure 9: Example of JPEG XS Payload Data (Slice Packetization Mode, Interlaced Video Frame)

5.  Traﬃc Shaping and Delivery Timing

In order to facilitate proper synchronization between senders and receivers, it is
RECOMMENDED
to implement traﬃc shaping and delivery timing in accordance with the Network Compatibility
Model compliance deﬁnitions speciﬁed in
SHALL
and timing delivery mechanism is outside the scope of this memo and does not inﬂuence the
payload packetization.

. In such a case, the session description
 signal the compliance with the media type parameter TP. The actual applied traﬃc shaping

[SMPTE2110-21]

6.  Congestion Control Considerations

Congestion control for RTP
RTP proﬁle, e.g.,

SHALL
RTP/AVP [RFC3551]

 be used in accordance with
 or
RTP/AVPF [RFC4585]

.

[RFC3550]

 and with any applicable

While JPEG XS is mainly designed to be used in controlled network environments, it can also be
employed in best-eﬀort network environments, like the Internet. However, in this case, the users
of this payload format
acceptable parameters. This can be achieved, for example, by means of
(RTCP) Feedback for Congestion Control [RFC8888]

 monitor packet loss to ensure that the packet loss rate is within
RTP Control Protocol

SHALL

.

Bruylants, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9134

RTP Payload Format for JPEG XS

October 2021

[RFC8083]

In addition,
stop sending RTP Packet Streams and for when applications implementing this standard
comply with it.

 that deﬁnes criteria for when one is required to
SHALL

 is an update to

[RFC3550]

[RFC8085]
to UDP streams.

 provides additional information on the best practices for applying congestion control

7.  Payload Format Parameters

This section speciﬁes the required and optional parameters of the payload format and/or the RTP
stream. All parameters are declarative, meaning that the information signaled by the parameters
is also present in the payload data, namely in the payload header (see Section 4.3) or in the JPEG
XS header segment
 be
consistent with the payload.

. When provided, their respective values

[ISO21122-1] [ISO21122-3]

SHALL

7.1.  Media Type Registration

This registration is done using the template deﬁned in

[RFC6838]

 and following

[RFC4855]

.

The receiver

SHALL

 ignore any unrecognized parameter.

Type name:
video

Subtype name:

jxsv

Required parameters:

rate:

The RTP timestamp clock rate. Applications using this payload format

SHALL

 use a

value of 90000.

packetmode:

This parameter speciﬁes the conﬁgured packetization mode as deﬁned by the
 be equal

pacKetization mode (K) bit in the payload header of Section 4.3. This value
to the K-bit value conﬁgured in the RTP stream (i.e., 0 for codestream or 1 for slice).

SHALL

Optional parameters:

transmode:

This parameter speciﬁes the conﬁgured transmission mode as deﬁned by the

Transmission mode (T) bit in the payload header of Section 4.3. If speciﬁed, this value
 be equal to the T-bit value conﬁgured in the RTP stream (i.e., 0 for out-of-order-
SHALL
 be
allowed or 1 for sequential-only). If not speciﬁed, a value 1 (sequential-only)
assumed and the T bit

 be set to 1.

SHALL

SHALL

proﬁle:

The

JPEG XS proﬁle [ISO21122-2]

 in use. Any white space Unicode character in the

proﬁle name
'High444.12'.

SHALL

 be omitted. Examples of valid proﬁle names are 'Main444.12' or

level:

The

JPEG XS level [ISO21122-2]

 in use. Any white space Unicode character in the level

name

SHALL

 be omitted. Examples of valid levels are '2k-1' or '4k-2'.

Bruylants, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9134

RTP Payload Format for JPEG XS

October 2021

sublevel:

The

JPEG XS sublevel [ISO21122-2]

 in use. Any white space Unicode character in the

sublevel name
'Sublev6bpp'.

SHALL

 be omitted. Examples of valid sublevels are 'Sublev3bpp' or

depth:

Determines the number of bits per sample. This is an integer with typical values

including 8, 10, 12, and 16.

width:

Determines the number of pixels per line. This is an integer between 1 and 32767,

inclusive.

height:

Determines the number of lines per video frame. This is an integer between 1 and

32767, inclusive.

exactframerate:

Signals the video frame rate in frames per second. Integer frame rates

SHALL

 be signaled as a single decimal number (e.g., "25") whilst non-integer frame rates
 be signaled as a ratio of two integer decimal numbers separated by a "forward-
SHALL
slash" character (e.g., "30000/1001"), utilizing the numerically smallest numerator value
possible.

interlace:

If this parameter name is present, it indicates that the video is interlaced, or that
the video is Progressive segmented Frame (PsF). If this parameter name is not present, the
progressive video format

 be assumed.

SHALL

segmented:

If this parameter name is present, and the interlace parameter name is also

present, then the video is a Progressive segmented Frame (PsF). Signaling of this parameter
without the interlace parameter is forbidden.

sampling:

Signals the color diﬀerence signal sub-sampling structure.

Signals utilizing the non-constant luminance Y'C'B C'R signal format of
, or
709-6] [BT.2020-2]
[BT.2100-2] SHALL
the Media Type Parameter "sampling":

,

 use the appropriate one of the following values for

[BT.601-7] [BT.

,

YCbCr-4:4:4
YCbCr-4:2:2
YCbCr-4:2:0

(4:4:4 sampling)
(4:2:2 sampling)
(4:2:0 sampling)

Signals utilizing the Constant Luminance Y'C C'BC C'RC signal format of
[BT.2020-2] SHALL
use the appropriate one of the following values for the Media Type Parameter "sampling":

CLYCbCr-4:4:4
CLYCbCr-4:2:2
CLYCbCr-4:2:0

(4:4:4 sampling)
(4:2:2 sampling)
(4:2:0 sampling)

Signals utilizing the constant intensity I CT CP signal format of
appropriate one of the following values for the Media Type Parameter "sampling":

[BT.2100-2] SHALL

 use the

ICtCp-4:4:4
ICtCp-4:2:2
ICtCp-4:2:0

(4:4:4 sampling)
(4:2:2 sampling)
(4:2:0 sampling)

Bruylants, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9134

RTP Payload Format for JPEG XS

October 2021

Signals utilizing the 4:4:4 R' G' B' or RGB signal format (such as that of
[BT.2020-2] [BT.2100-2] [SMPTE2065-1]
the Media Type Parameter "sampling":

[SMPTE2065-3] SHALL

, or

)

,

,

[BT.601-7] [BT.709-6]
,

,
 use the following value for

RGB

(RGB or R' G' B' samples)

Signals utilizing the 4:4:4 X' Y' Z' signal format (such as deﬁned in
the following value for the Media Type Parameter "sampling":

[SMPTE428-1] SHALL

)

 use

XYZ

(X' Y' Z' samples)

Key signals as deﬁned in
Parameter "sampling". The key signal is represented as a single component:

 use the value key for the Media Type

[SMPTE157] SHALL

KEY

(Samples of the key signal)

Signals utilizing a color sub-sampling other than what is deﬁned here
following value for the Media Type Parameter "sampling":

SHALL

 use the

UNSPECIFIED

(Sampling signaled by the payload)

colorimetry:

Speciﬁes the system colorimetry used by the image samples. Valid values and

their speciﬁcation are the following:

BT601-5:

[BT.601-5]

.

BT709-2:

[BT.709-2]

.

SMPTE240M:

[SMPTE240M]

.

BT601:

BT709:

[BT.601-7]

.

[BT.709-6]

.

BT2020:

[BT.2020-2]

.

BT2100:

[BT.2100-2]

, Table 2 titled "System colorimetry".

ST2065-1:

Academy Color Encoding Speciﬁcation (ACES) [SMPTE2065-1]

.

ST2065-3:

Academy Density Exchange Encoding (ADX) [SMPTE2065-3]

.

XYZ:

[ISO11664-1]

, section titled "1931 Observer".

UNSPECIFIED:

Colorimetry is signaled in the payload by the color speciﬁcation box of
[ISO21122-3]
receiver.

, or it must be manually coordinated between sender and

Signals utilizing the
using the optional parameter RANGE deﬁned below. Signals utilizing the UNSPECIFIED
colorimetry might require manual coordination between the sender and the receiver.

 also signal the representational range

 colorimetry

[BT.2100-2]

SHOULD

Bruylants, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9134

RTP Payload Format for JPEG XS

October 2021

TCS:

Transfer Characteristic System. This parameter speciﬁes the transfer characteristic

system of the image samples. Valid values and their speciﬁcation are the following:

SDR:

PQ:

HLG:

UNSPECIFIED:

Standard Dynamic Range video streams that utilize the Optical Electrical
Transfer Function (OETF) of
SHALL
be assumed to target the Electro-Optical Transfer Function (EOTF) speciﬁed
in

. Such streams

[BT.2020-2]

[BT.1886-0]

[BT.709-6]

 or

.

High dynamic range video streams that utilize the Perceptual Quantization
system of

[BT.2100-2]

.

High dynamic range video streams that utilize the Hybrid Log-Gamma
system of

[BT.2100-2]

.

Video streams whose transfer characteristics are signaled by the payload
as speciﬁed in
sender and receiver.

, or that must be manually coordinated between

[ISO21122-3]

RANGE:

This parameter

SHOULD

 be used to signal the encoding range of the sample values

[BT.2100-2]

 colorimetry, this parameter has two

within the stream. When paired with
allowed values, NARROW and FULL, corresponding to the ranges speciﬁed in TABLE 9 of
. In any other context, this parameter has three allowed values: NARROW,
[BT.2100-2]
FULLPROTECT, and FULL, which correspond to the ranges speciﬁed in
[SMPTE2077]
absence of this parameter, and for all but the UNSPECIFIED colorimetry, NARROW
be the assumed value. When paired with the UNSPECIFIED colorimetry, FULL
default assumed value.

SHALL

. In the
SHALL

 be the

Encoding considerations:

This media type is framed in RTP and contains binary data; see

Section 4.8 of [RFC6838]

.

Security considerations:

See the Security Considerations section of RFC 9134.

Interoperability considerations:

None

Published speciﬁcation:

See the References section of RFC 9134.

Applications that use this media type:

Any application that transmits video over RTP (like SMPTE ST 2110).

Fragment identiﬁer considerations:

N/A

Additional information:

None

Person & email address to contact for further information:

T. Bruylants <rtp@intopix.com> and T. Richter <jpeg-xs-techsupport@iis.fraunhofer.de>.

Bruylants, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9134

RTP Payload Format for JPEG XS

October 2021

Intended usage:
COMMON

Restrictions on usage:

This media type depends on RTP framing; hence, it is only deﬁned for transfer via
[RFC3550]

.

RTP

Author:

See the Authors' Addresses section of RFC 9134.

Change controller:

IETF Audio/Video Transport Working Group delegated from the IESG.

8.  SDP Parameters

A mapping of the parameters into the
for applications that use SDP.

Session Description Protocol (SDP) [RFC8866]

 is provided

8.1.  Mapping of Payload Type Parameters to SDP

The media type video/jxsv string is mapped to ﬁelds in the
[RFC8866]

 as follows:

Session Description Protocol (SDP)

The media type ("video") goes in SDP "m=" as the media name.

The media subtype ("jxsv") goes in SDP "a=rtpmap" as the encoding name, followed by a slash
("/") and the required parameter "rate" corresponding to the RTP timestamp clock rate (which
for the payload format deﬁned in this document

 be 90000).

SHALL

The required parameter "packetmode" and any of the additional optional parameters, as
described in Section 7.1, go in the SDP media format description, being the "a=fmtp" attribute
(Format Parameters), by copying them directly from the media type string as a semicolon-
separated list of parameter=value pairs.

All parameters of the media format
 correspond to the parameters of the payload. In case
of discrepancies between payload parameter values and SDP ﬁelds, the values from the payload
data

 prevail.

SHALL

SHALL

The receiver

SHALL

 ignore any parameter that is not deﬁned in Section 7.1.

An example SDP mapping for JPEG XS video is as follows:

   m=video 30000 RTP/AVP 112
   a=rtpmap:112 jxsv/90000
   a=fmtp:112 packetmode=0;sampling=YCbCr-4:2:2;
              width=1920;height=1080;depth=10;
              colorimetry=BT709;TCS=SDR;RANGE=FULL;TP=2110TPNL

Bruylants, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9134

RTP Payload Format for JPEG XS

October 2021

In this example, a JPEG XS RTP stream is to be sent to UDP destination port 30000, with an RTP
dynamic payload type of 112 and a media clock rate of 90000 Hz. Note that the "a=fmtp:" line has
been wrapped to ﬁt this page and will be a single long line in the SDP ﬁle. This example includes
the TP parameter (as speciﬁed in Section 5).

8.2.  Usage with SDP Oﬀer/Answer Model

When JPEG XS is oﬀered over RTP using
for unicast usage, the following limitations and rules apply:

SDP in an oﬀer/answer model [RFC3264]

 for negotiation

The "a=fmtp" attribute
MAY

 specify any of the optional parameters, as described in Section 7.1.

SHALL

 be present specifying the required parameter "packetmode" and

All parameters in the "a=fmtp" attribute indicate sending capabilities (i.e., properties of the
payload).

An answerer of the SDP is required to support all parameters and values of the parameters
provided by the oﬀerer; otherwise, the answerer
to use values that are expected to be supported by the answerer. If the answerer accepts the
session, it
were initially oﬀered.

 reply with the exact same parameter values in the "a=fmtp" attribute as they

 reject the session. It falls on the oﬀerer

SHALL

SHALL

The same RTP payload type number used in the oﬀer
speciﬁed in

[RFC3264]

.

SHOULD

 be used in the answer, as

9.  IANA Considerations

IANA has registered the media type registration "video/jxsv" as speciﬁed in Section 7.1. The media
type has also been added to the IANA registry for "RTP Payload Format Media Types"
.
www.iana.org/assignments/rtp-parameters>

<https://

10.  Security Considerations

RTP packets using the payload format deﬁned in this memo are subject to the security
considerations discussed in
,
[RFC3551] RTP/AVPF [RFC4585] RTP/SAVP [RFC3711]
conﬁdentiality of the media streams is achieved by encryption.

 and in any applicable RTP proﬁle such as

RTP/SAVPF [RFC5124]

[RFC3550]

, or

,

RTP/AVP

. This implies that

"Securing the RTP Framework: Why RTP Does Not Mandate a Single Media Security
 discusses, it is not an RTP payload format's responsibility to discuss or

However, as
Solution" [RFC7202]
mandate what solutions are used to meet the basic security goals like conﬁdentiality, integrity,
and source authenticity for RTP in general. This responsibility lies on anyone using RTP in an
application. They can ﬁnd guidance on available security mechanisms and important
considerations in
SHOULD
more appropriate strong security mechanisms.

"Options for Securing RTP Sessions" [RFC7201]

. Applications

 use one or

Bruylants, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9134

RTP Payload Format for JPEG XS

October 2021

Implementations of this RTP payload format need to take appropriate security considerations
into account. It is important for the decoder to be robust against malicious or malformed
payloads and ensure that they do not cause the decoder to overrun its allocated memory or
otherwise misbehave. An overrun in allocated memory could lead to arbitrary code execution by
an attacker. The same applies to the encoder, even though problems in encoders are typically
rarer.

This payload format and the JPEG XS encoding do not exhibit any substantial non-uniformity,
either in output or in complexity to perform the decoding operation; thus, they are unlikely to
pose a denial-of-service threat due to the receipt of pathological datagrams.

This payload format and the JPEG XS encoding do not contain code that is executable.

It is important to note that high-deﬁnition (HD) or ultra-high-deﬁnition (UHD) video that is
encoded with JPEG XS can have signiﬁcant bandwidth requirements (typically more than 1 Gbps
for UHD video, especially if using high framerate). This is suﬃcient to cause potential for denial of
service if transmitted onto most currently available Internet paths.

Accordingly, if best-eﬀort service is being used, users of this payload format
packet loss to ensure that the packet loss rate is within acceptable parameters. Packet loss is
considered acceptable if a TCP ﬂow across the same network path, and experiencing the same
network conditions, would achieve an average throughput, measured on a reasonable timescale,
that is not less than the RTP ﬂow is achieving. This condition can be satisﬁed by implementing
congestion control mechanisms to adapt the transmission rate (or the number of layers
subscribed for a layered multicast session) or by arranging for a receiver to leave the session if
the loss rate is unacceptably high.

 monitor

SHALL

This payload format may also be used in networks that provide quality-of-service guarantees. If
 monitor packet loss to ensure that the service
enhanced service is being used, receivers
that was requested is actually being delivered. If it is not, then they
 assume that they are
receiving best-eﬀort service and behave accordingly.

SHOULD

SHOULD

11.  References

11.1.  Normative References

[ISO21122-1]

[ISO21122-2]

[ISO21122-3]

[RFC2119]

,

ISO/IEC "Information technology - JPEG XS low-latency lightweight image coding
system - Part 1: Core coding system" ISO/IEC IS 21122-1
.

,

,

ISO/IEC "Information technology - JPEG XS low-latency lightweight image coding
system - Part 2: Proﬁles and buﬀer models" ISO/IEC IS 21122-2
.

,

,

ISO/IEC "Information technology - JPEG XS low-latency lightweight image coding
system - Part 3: Transport and container formats" ISO/IEC IS 21122-3
.

,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
,
rfc2119>
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

Bruylants, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9134

RTP Payload Format for JPEG XS

October 2021

[RFC3264]

[RFC3550]

[RFC3551]

[RFC4855]

[RFC6838]

[RFC8083]

[RFC8085]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8866]

 and

Rosenberg, J.
Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 3264 DOI 10.17487/RFC3264
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3264>
.

H. Schulzrinne "An Oﬀer/Answer Model with Session

, June 2002,

,

,

,

<https://

,

Schulzrinne, H. Casner, S. Frederick, R.
Protocol for Real-Time Applications" STD 64 RFC 3550 DOI 10.17487/RFC3550
,
July 2003,

V. Jacobson "RTP: A Transport
, and
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3550>
.

,

,

,

,

Schulzrinne, H.
,
Minimal Control" STD 65 RFC 3551 DOI 10.17487/RFC3551
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3551>
.

 and
,

,

,

S. Casner "RTP Proﬁle for Audio and Video Conferences with

, July 2003,

<https://

Casner, S. "Media Type Registration of RTP Payload Formats" RFC 4855 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4855>
10.17487/RFC4855
.

, February 2007,

,

,

,

,
Freed, N. Klensin, J.
Procedures" BCP 13 RFC 6838 DOI 10.17487/RFC6838
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6838>

, and
,

,

,

,

T. Hansen "Media Type Speciﬁcations and Registration

, January 2013,

<https://

V. Singh "Multimedia Congestion Control: Circuit Breakers for

 and

Perkins, C.
,
Unicast RTP Sessions" RFC 8083 DOI 10.17487/RFC8083
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8083>

,

,

, March 2017,

<https://

,

, and
Eggert, L. Fairhurst, G.
,
8085 DOI 10.17487/RFC8085
.
rfc8085>

,
G. Shepherd "UDP Usage Guidelines" BCP 145 RFC
, March 2017,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,
,
Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
.
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,
Begen, A. Kyzivat, P. Perkins, C.
,
Protocol" RFC 8866 DOI 10.17487/RFC8866
.
editor.org/info/rfc8866>

, and

,
,

M. Handley "SDP: Session Description
<https://www.rfc-

,
, January 2021,

11.2.  Informative References

[BT.1886-0]

[BT.2020-2]

[BT.2100-2]

,

ITU-R "Reference electro-optical transfer function for ﬂat panel displays used in
HDTV studio production" ITU-R Recommendation BT.1886-0
.
<https://www.itu.int/rec/R-REC-BT.1886-0-201103-I/en>

, March 2011,

,

,

ITU-R "Parameter values for ultra-high deﬁnition television systems for
production and international programme exchange" ITU-R Recommendation
.
<https://www.itu.int/rec/R-REC-BT.2020-2-201510-I/en>
BT.2020-2

, October 2015,

,

,

ITU-R "Image parameter values for high dynamic range television for use in
production and international programme exchange" ITU-R Recommendation
BT.2100-2

.
<https://www.itu.int/rec/R-REC-BT.2100-2-201807-I/en>

, July 2018,

,

Bruylants, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9134

RTP Payload Format for JPEG XS

October 2021

[BT.601-5]

[BT.601-7]

[BT.709-2]

[BT.709-6]

[ISO11664-1]

[RFC3711]

[RFC4175]

[RFC4585]

[RFC5124]

[RFC7201]

[RFC7202]

[RFC8888]

[SMPTE157]

,

ITU-R "Studio encoding parameters of digital television for standard 4:3 and
wide screen 16:9 aspect ratios" ITU-R Recommendation BT.601-5
<https://www.itu.int/rec/R-REC-BT.601-5-199510-S/en>
.

, October 1995,

,

,

ITU-R "Studio encoding parameters of digital television for standard 4:3 and
wide screen 16:9 aspect ratios" ITU-R Recommendation BT.601-7
<https://www.itu.int/rec/R-REC-BT.601-7-201103-I/en>
.

, March 2011,

,

,

ITU-R "Parameter values for the HDTV standards for production and
international programme exchange" ITU-R Recommendation BT.709-2
1995,

<https://www.itu.int/rec/R-REC-BT.709-2-199510-S/en>
.

,

, October

,

ITU-R "Parameter values for the HDTV standards for production and
international programme exchange" ITU-R Recommendation BT.709-6
2015,

<https://www.itu.int/rec/R-REC-BT.709-6-201506-I/en>
.

,

, June

,

ISO/CIE "Colorimetry - Part 1: CIE standard colorimetric observers" ISO/CIE IS
11664-1:2019

,
<https://www.iso.org/standard/74164.html>
.

, June 2019,

,

Baugher, M. McGrew, D. Naslund, M. Carrara, E.
,
Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP)" RFC 3711 DOI 10.17487/RFC3711
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3711>
2004,
.

, and

,
,

K. Norrman "The Secure
,

, March

 and

Gharai, L.
,
4175 DOI 10.17487/RFC4175
.
rfc4175>

,

C. Perkins "RTP Payload Format for Uncompressed Video" RFC
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, September 2005,

,

,

,

Ott, J. Wenger, S. Sato, N. Burmeister, C.
Real-time Transport Control Protocol (RTCP)-Based Feedback (RTP/AVPF)" RFC
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4585>
4585 DOI 10.17487/RFC4585

J. Rey "Extended RTP Proﬁle for

, July 2006,

, and

,

,

,

,

 and

E. Carrara "Extended Secure RTP Proﬁle for Real-time Transport

Ott, J.
Control Protocol (RTCP)-Based Feedback (RTP/SAVPF)" RFC 5124 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5124

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5124>

, February 2008,

,

,

Westerlund, M.
10.17487/RFC7201

,
C. Perkins "Options for Securing RTP Sessions" RFC 7201 DOI
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7201>

, April 2014,

,

,

 and

 and

Perkins, C.
Mandate a Single Media Security Solution" RFC 7202 DOI 10.17487/RFC7202
2014,

M. Westerlund "Securing the RTP Framework: Why RTP Does Not
, April

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7202>

,

,

,

,

, and
Sarker, Z. Perkins, C. Singh, V.
,
Feedback for Congestion Control" RFC 8888 DOI 10.17487/RFC8888
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8888>

M. Ramalho "RTP Control Protocol (RTCP)

, January 2021,

,

,

,

,

SMPTE "SMPTE Recommended Practice - Key and Alpha Signals" SMPTE RP
, November 2012,
157:2012 DOI 10.1109/ICPST.1998.729044
.
ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7290447>

<https://

,

,

Bruylants, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9134

RTP Payload Format for JPEG XS

October 2021

[SMPTE2065-1]

[SMPTE2065-3]

[SMPTE2077]

,

SMPTE "SMPTE Standard - Academy Color Encoding Speciﬁcation (ACES)"
,
SMPTE ST 2065-1:2021 DOI 10.5594/SMPTE.ST2065-1.2021
<https://
.
ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9343931>

, January 2021,

,

,

SMPTE "SMPTE Standard - Academy Density Exchange Encoding (ADX) -
,
Encoding Academy Printing Density (APD) Values" SMPTE ST 2065-3:2020 DOI
10.5594/SMPTE.ST2065-3.2020
<https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/
.
document/9286953>

, November 2020,

,

,

SMPTE "SMPTE Recommended Practice - Full-Range Image Mapping" SMPTE RP
2077:2013 DOI 10.5594/SMPTE.RP2077.2013
.
ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7290588>

, November 2013,

<https://

,

,

[SMPTE2110-21]

SMPTE "SMPTE Standard - Professional Media Over Managed IP Networks:

,

,
Traﬃc Shaping and Delivery Timing for Video" SMPTE ST 2110-21:2017 DOI
, November 2017,
10.5594/SMPTE.ST2110-21.2017
<https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/
.
document/8165971>

,

[SMPTE240M]

[SMPTE428-1]

,

SMPTE "SMPTE Standard - For Television - 1125-Line High-Deﬁnition Production
Systems - Signal Parameters" SMPTE ST 240M:1999 DOI 10.5594/
SMPTE.ST240.1999
.
7291461?arnumber=7291461>

<https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/

, November 1999,

,

,

,

SMPTE "SMPTE Standard - D-Cinema Distribution Master - Image
Characteristics" SMPTE ST 428-1:2019 DOI 10.5594/SMPTE.ST428-1.2019
2019,

.
<https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8709077>

,

,

, March

Acknowledgments

The authors would like to thank the following people for their valuable contributions to this
memo:
and

Sébastien Lugan Arnaud Germain Alexandre Willème Gaël Rouvroy Siegfried Foessel
,

,
Jean-Baptise Lorent
.

,

,

,

Authors' Addresses

Tim Bruylants
intoPIX S.A.
Rue Emile Francqui, 9
1435 Mont-Saint-Guibert
Belgium
Phone:
Email:
URI:

 +32 10 23 84 70
 t.bruylants@intopix.com

 https://www.intopix.com/

Bruylants, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9134

RTP Payload Format for JPEG XS

October 2021

Antonin Descampe
Université catholique de Louvain
bte L2.03.02
Ruelle de la Lanterne Magique, 14
1348 Louvain-la-Neuve
Belgium
Phone:
Email:
URI:

 +32 10 47 27 87
 antonin.descampe@uclouvain.be
 https://uclouvain.be/antonin.descampe

Corentin Damman
intoPIX S.A.
Rue Emile Francqui, 9
1435 Mont-Saint-Guibert
Belgium
Phone:
Email:
URI:

 +32 10 23 84 70
 c.damman@intopix.com

 https://www.intopix.com/

Thomas Richter
Fraunhofer IIS
Am Wolfsmantel 33
91048 Erlangen
Germany
Phone:
Email:
URI:

 +49 9131 776 5126
 thomas.richter@iis.fraunhofer.de

 https://www.iis.fraunhofer.de/

Bruylants, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

