Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9843
9350
Standards Track
September 2025
2070-1721

S. Hegde
Juniper Networks Inc.

W. Britto
Juniper Networks Inc.

R. Shetty
Juniper Networks Inc.

B. Decraene
Orange

P. Psenak
Cisco Systems

T. Li
Juniper Networks Inc.

RFC 9843
IGP Flexible Algorithms: Bandwidth, Delay, Metrics,
and Constraints

Abstract

Many networks configure the IGP link metric relative to the link capacity, and high bandwidth
traffic gets routed per the link capacity. Flexible Algorithms provide mechanisms to create
constraint-based paths in an IGP. This specification documents a generic metric-type and a set of
bandwidth-related constraints to be used in Flexible Algorithms.

This document updates RFC 9350.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9843
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Hegde, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9843

IGP Flex-Algorithms: Bandwidth, Delay, and Metrics

September 2025

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

2.  Generic Metric Advertisement

2.1.  IS-IS Generic Metric Sub-TLV

2.2.  OSPF Generic Metric Sub-TLV

2.3.  Generic Metric Applicability to Flexible Algorithm Multi-Domain/Multi-Area Networks

3.  FAD Constraint Sub-TLVs

3.1.  IS-IS FAD Constraint Sub-TLVs

3.1.1.  IS-IS Exclude Minimum Bandwidth Sub-TLV

3.1.2.  IS-IS Exclude Maximum Delay Sub-TLV

3.2.  OSPF FAD Constraint Sub-TLVs

3.2.1.  OSPF Exclude Minimum Bandwidth Sub-TLV

3.2.2.  OSPF Exclude Maximum Delay Sub-TLV

4.  Bandwidth Metric Advertisement

4.1.  Automatic Metric Calculation

4.1.1.  Automatic Metric Calculation Modes

4.1.2.  Automatic Metric Calculation Methods

4.1.3.  IS-IS FAD Constraint Sub-TLVs for Automatic Metric Calculation

4.1.4.  OSPF FAD Constraint Sub-TLVs for Automatic Metric Calculation

5.  Bandwidth Metric Considerations

6.  Calculation of Flex-Algorithm Paths

7.  Backward Compatibility

8.  Security Considerations

9.  Operational Considerations

3

4

4

5

6

8

8

9

9

10

11

11

12

13

13

14

15

15

20

25

25

26

26

26

Hegde, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9843

IGP Flex-Algorithms: Bandwidth, Delay, and Metrics

September 2025

10. IANA Considerations

10.1.  IGP Metric-Type Registry

10.2.  IS-IS Sub-Sub-TLVs for Flexible Algorithm Definition Sub-TLV

10.3.  OSPF Sub-TLVs for Flexible Algorithm Definition Sub-TLV

10.4.  IS-IS Sub-TLVs for TLVs Advertising Neighbor Information

10.5.  Sub-Sub-TLV Codepoints for Application-Specific Link Attributes

10.6.  OSPFv2 Extended Link TLV Sub-TLVs

10.7.  Types for Sub-TLVs of TE Link TLV (Value 2)

10.8.  OSPFv3 Extended-LSA Sub-TLVs

11. References

11.1.  Normative References

11.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Updated List of Rules for Pruning Links in Flex-Algorithm Topology

Acknowledgements

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

26

26

27

28

28

28

29

29

29

29

29

31

32

32

33

33

High bandwidth traffic such as residential Internet traffic and machine-to-machine elephant
flows benefit from using high capacity links. Accordingly, many network operators define a
link's metric relative to its capacity to help direct traffic to higher bandwidth links, but this is no
guarantee that lower bandwidth links will be avoided, especially in failure scenarios. To ensure
that elephant flows are only placed on high capacity links, it would be useful to explicitly
exclude the high throughput traffic from utilizing links below a certain capacity. Flex-Algorithm
[RFC9350]
consisting of calculation-type, metric-type, and a set of constraints. In this document, we define
further extensions to the Flexible Algorithm Definition (FAD) that will allow operators additional
control over their traffic flows, especially with respect to bandwidth constraints.

 provides a mechanism to create constrained paths by defining a set of parameters

Historically, IGPs have done path computation by minimizing the sum of the link metrics along
the path from source to destination. While the metric has been administratively defined,
implementations have defaulted to a metric that is inversely proportional to link bandwidth.
This has driven traffic to higher bandwidth links and has required manual metric manipulation
to achieve the desired loading of the network.

Hegde, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9843

IGP Flex-Algorithms: Bandwidth, Delay, and Metrics

September 2025

Over time, with the addition of different traffic types, the need for alternate types of metrics has
evolved. Flex-Algorithm already supports using the minimum link delay and the
administratively assigned traffic-engineering metrics in path computation. However, it is clear
that additional metrics may be of interest in different situations. A network operator may seek to
minimize their operational costs and thus may want a metric that reflects the actual fiscal costs
of using a link. Other traffic may require low jitter, leading to an entirely different set of metrics.
With Flex-Algorithm, all of these different metrics, and more, could be used concurrently on the
same network.

In some circumstances, path computation constraints, such as administrative groups, can be
used to ensure that traffic avoids particular portions of the network. These strict constraints are
appropriate when there is an absolute requirement to avoid parts of the topology, even in
failure conditions. However, if the requirement is less strict, then using a high metric in a
portion of the topology may be more appropriate.

This document defines a family of generic metrics that can advertise various types of
administratively assigned metrics. This document introduces standard metric-types that have
specific semantics and require standardization. This document also specifies user-defined metric-
types where specifics are not defined so that administrators are free to assign semantics as they
see fit.

Section 3 defines additional FAD
preclude the use of low bandwidth links or high delay links. Section 4 specifies a new bandwidth-
based metric-type to be used with Flex-Algorithm and other applications.

 constraints that allow the network administrator to

[RFC9350]

Section 4.1 defines mechanisms to automatically calculate link metrics based on the parameters
defined in the FAD and the advertised Maximum Link Bandwidth of each link. This is
advantageous because administrators can change their criteria for metric assignment centrally,
without individual modification of each link metric throughout the network. The procedures
described in this document are intended to assign a metric to a link based on the total link
capacity, and they are not intended to update the metric based on actual traffic flow. Thus, the
procedures described in this document are not a replacement to the capability of a PCE
[RFC4655]
, which has a dynamic view of the network and provides real-time bandwidth
management or a distributed bandwidth management protocol.

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Generic Metric Advertisement

[RFC1195]

 and OSPF

IS-IS
 advertise a metric for each link in their respective link state
advertisements. Multiple metric-types are already supported. Administratively assigned metrics
are described in the original OSPF and IS-IS specifications. The Traffic Engineering Default

[RFC2328]

Hegde, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9843

IGP Flex-Algorithms: Bandwidth, Delay, and Metrics

September 2025

[RFC5305]

Metric is defined in
[RFC8570]
. Other metrics, such as jitter, reliability, and fiscal cost may be helpful,
depending on the traffic class. Rather than attempt to enumerate all possible metrics of interest,
this document specifies a generic mechanism for advertising metrics.

, and the Unidirectional Link Delay is defined in

[RFC3630]

[RFC7471]

 and

 and

Each generic metric advertisement is on a per-link and per-metric-type basis. The metric
advertisement consists of a metric-type field and a value for the metric. The metric-type field has
been assigned in the "IGP Metric-Type" IANA registry. Metric-types 0-127 are standard metric-
types as assigned by IANA. This document further specifies a user-defined metric-type space of
metric-types 128-255. They can be assigned by an operator for local use.

MUST

Implementations
 support sending and receiving a Generic Metric sub-TLV in Application-
Specific Link Attributes (ASLA) encodings as well as in TLV 22 and Extended Link Opaque Link
State Advertisements (LSAs)
individual application is subject to the same rules that apply to other link attributes as defined in
[RFC3630] [RFC5305] [RFC9479] [RFC9492]
,

 and TE-LSAs. The usage of a generic metric by an

[RFC9350]
.

[RFC7684]

, and

,

,

2.1.  IS-IS Generic Metric Sub-TLV

The IS-IS Generic Metric sub-TLV specifies the link metric for a given metric-type. Typically, this
metric is assigned by a network administrator. The Generic Metric sub-TLV is advertised in the
TLVs/sub-TLVs below:

a.

TLV 22 (Extended IS reachability)

[RFC5305]

b.

TLV 222 (MT-ISN)

[RFC5120]

c.

TLV 23 (IS Neighbor Attribute)

[RFC5311]

d.

TLV 223 (MT IS Neighbor Attribute)

[RFC5311]

e.

TLV 141 (Inter-AS Reachability Information)

[RFC9346]

f.

sub-TLV 16 (Application-Specific Link Attributes (ASLA)) of TLVs 22/222/23/223/141

[RFC9479]

g.

TLV 25 (L2 Bundle Member Attributes)
bundle members).

[RFC8668]

. Marked as "y(s)" (shareable among

    0                   1                   2                   3
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |   Type        |     Length    |  metric-type  |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                         Value                 |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 1: IS-IS Generic Metric Sub-TLV

where:

Hegde, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9843

IGP Flex-Algorithms: Bandwidth, Delay, and Metrics

September 2025

Type (1 octet):

An 8-bit field assigned by IANA (17). This value uniquely identifies the Generic Metric TLV.

Length (1 octet):

An 8-bit field indicating the total length, in octets, of the subsequent fields. For this TLV, the
Length is set to 4.

Metric-Type (1 octet):

An 8-bit field specifying the type of metric. The value is taken from the "IGP Metric-Type"
registry maintained by IANA. The metric-type may be any value that is indicated as allowed
in the Generic Metric sub-TLV by the "IGP Metric-Type" registry.

Value (3 octets):

A 24-bit unsigned integer representing the metric value. The valid range is from 0 to
16,777,215 (0xFFFFFF).

MAY

MUST

The Generic Metric sub-TLV
 be advertised multiple times. For a particular metric-type, the
 be advertised only once for a link when advertised in TLVs 22, 222,
Generic Metric sub-TLV
23, 223, and 141. When the Generic Metric sub-TLV is advertised in ASLA, each metric-type
MUST
be advertised only once per-application for a link. If there are multiple Generic Metric sub-TLVs
advertised for a link for the same metric-type (and the same application in case of ASLA) in one
or more received Link State Protocol Data Units (LSPDUs), advertisement in the lowest-
numbered fragment

 be used, and the subsequent instances

 be ignored.

MUST

MUST

For a link, if the metric-type corresponds to a metric-type for which legacy advertisement
mechanisms exist (e.g., the IGP Metric, the Min Unidirectional Link Delay, or the Traffic
Engineering Default Metric), the legacy metric-types
MUST
sub-TLVs. If a Generic Metric advertises a legacy metric, it

 be utilized from the existing TLV or
MUST

 be ignored.

MUST

 be used during Flex-Algorithm calculations as a last resort link as described in

A metric value of 0xFFFFFF is considered a maximum link metric, and a link having this metric
value
Section 15.3 of [RFC9350]
. A link can be made unusable by Flex-Algorithm by leaving out Generic
Metric advertisement of the particular metric-type that the Flex-Algorithm uses, as described in
[RFC9350]
.

During the router maintenance activity, the Generic Metric for all the links on the node
set to a maximum value of 16,777,215 (0xFFFFFF), as it is the maximum usable link metric for
the Flex-Algorithm calculations.

MAY

 be

2.2.  OSPF Generic Metric Sub-TLV

The OSPF Generic Metric sub-TLV specifies the link metric for a given metric-type. Typically, this
metric is assigned by a network administrator. The Generic Metric sub-TLV is advertised in the
TLVs below:

a.

sub-TLV of TE Link TLV (type 2) of OSPF TE LSA

[RFC3630]

.

b.

sub-TLV of TE Link TLV (type 2) of OSPFv2 Inter-AS-TE-v2 LSA

[RFC5392]

.

c.

sub-TLV of TE Link TLV (type 2) of OSPFv3 Intra-Area-TE-LSA

[RFC5329]

.

Hegde, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9843

IGP Flex-Algorithms: Bandwidth, Delay, and Metrics

September 2025

d.

sub-TLV of TE Link TLV (type 2) of OSPFv3 Inter-AS-TE-v3 LSA

[RFC5392]

.

e.

sub-TLV of Application-Specific Link Attributes (ASLA) sub-TLV
Extended Link TLV

[RFC7684]

.

[RFC9492]

 of the OSPFv2

f.

sub-TLV of Application-Specific Link Attributes (ASLA) sub-TLV
Router-Link TLV

[RFC8362]

.

[RFC9492]

 of the OSPFv3

g.

sub-TLV of the OSPFv2 L2 Bundle Member Attributes sub-TLV

[RFC9356]

.

h.

sub-TLV of the OSPFv3 L2 Bundle Member Attributes sub-TLV

[RFC9356]

.

The Generic Metric sub-TLV, types 25/36/34, is 8 octets in length.

       0                   1                   2                   3
       0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
      +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
      |              Type             |             Length            |
      +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
      | metric-type   |         Reserved (MBZ)                        |
      +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
      |                            Value                              |
      +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 2: OSPF Generic Metric Sub-TLV

where:

Type (2 octets):

A 16-bit field assigned by IANA (25/36/34). This value uniquely identifies the Generic Metric
TLV.

Length (2 octets):

A 16-bit field indicating the total length, in octets, of the subsequent fields. For this TLV, the
Length is set to 8.

Metric-Type (1 octet):

An 8-bit field specifying the type of metric. The value is taken from the "IGP Metric-Type"
registry maintained by IANA. The metric-type may be any value that is indicated as allowed
in the Generic Metric sub-TLV by the "IGP Metric-Type" registry.

Reserved (3 octets):

MUST

 set to zero by the sender and

MUST

 be ignored by the receiver.

Value (4 octets):

A 32-bit unsigned integer representing the metric value. The valid range is from 0 to
4,294,967,295 (0xFFFFFFFF).

The Generic Metric sub-TLV
Generic Metric sub-TLV
(d) above. When the Generic Metric sub-TLV is advertised as a sub-TLV of ASLA, it

 be advertised multiple times. For a particular metric-type, the
 be advertised only once for a link when advertised as (a) through

MUST

MUST

MAY

 be

Hegde, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9843

IGP Flex-Algorithms: Bandwidth, Delay, and Metrics

September 2025

advertised only once per application for a link. If there are multiple Generic Metric sub-TLVs
advertised for a link for the same metric-type (and the same application in case of ASLA) in one
or more received LSAs, advertisement in the lowest-numbered LSA
 be ignored.
subsequent instances

 be used, and the

MUST

MUST

For a link, if the metric-type corresponds to a metric-type for which legacy advertisement
mechanisms exist (e.g., the IGP Metric, the Min Unidirectional Link Delay, or the Traffic
Engineering Default Metric), the legacy metric-types
MUST
sub-TLVs. If a Generic Metric advertises a legacy metric, it

 be utilized from the existing TLV or
MUST

 be ignored.

A metric value of 0xFFFFFFFF is considered a maximum link metric, and a link having this
metric value
in

 be used during Flex-Algorithm calculations as a last resort link, as described

MUST
Section 15.3 of [RFC9350]
.

A link can be made unusable by Flex-Algorithm by leaving out Generic Metric advertisement of
the particular metric-type that the Flex-Algorithm uses, as described in

[RFC9350]
.

During the router maintenance activity, the Generic Metric for all the links on the node
 be
set to a maximum value of 4,294,967,295 (0xFFFFFFFF), as it is the maximum usable link metric
for the Flex-Algorithm calculations.

MAY

2.3.  Generic Metric Applicability to Flexible Algorithm Multi-Domain/Multi-
Area Networks

Generic Metric can be used by Flex-Algorithm by specifying the metric-type in the Flexible
Algorithm Definitions. When Flex-Algorithm is used in a multi-area network,
 defines
the Flexible Algorithm Prefix Metric (FAPM) sub-TLV that carries the Flexible-Algorithm-specific
metric. Metrics carried in FAPM will be equal to the metric to reach the prefix for that Flex-
Algorithm in its source area or domain (source area from the Area Border Router (ABR)
perspective). When Flex-Algorithm uses Generic Metric, the same procedures as described in
Section 13 of [RFC9350]
 are used to send and process the FAPM sub-TLV.

[RFC9350]

3.  FAD Constraint Sub-TLVs

Large high throughput flows are referred to as "elephant flows". Directing an elephant flow
down a low-bandwidth link might congest the link and cause other critical application traffic
flowing on the link to drop. Thus, in the context of Flex-Algorithm, it would be useful to be able
to constrain the topology to only those links capable of supporting a minimum amount of
bandwidth.

If the capacity of a low bandwidth link is constant, constraining the topology to avoid those links
can already be achieved through the use of administrative groups. However, when a Layer 3
link is actually a collection of Layer 2 links (Link Aggregation Group (LAG) / Layer 2 Bundle), the
link bandwidth will vary based on the set of active constituent links. This could be automated by
having an implementation vary the advertised administrative groups based on bandwidth, but

Hegde, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9843

IGP Flex-Algorithms: Bandwidth, Delay, and Metrics

September 2025

this seems unnecessarily complex and expressing this requirement as a direct constraint on the
topology seems simpler. This is also advantageous if the minimum required bandwidth changes,
as this constraint would provide a single centralized, coordinated point of control.

To satisfy this requirement, this document defines an Exclude Minimum Bandwidth constraint.
When this constraint is advertised in a FAD, a link will be pruned from the Flex-Algorithm
topology if the link's advertised maximum link bandwidth value is below the FAD advertised
minimum bandwidth value.

Similarly, this document defines an Exclude Maximum Link Delay constraint. Applications, such
as High-Frequency Trading are sensitive to link delays and may perform poorly in networks
prone to delay variability, such as those with transparent Layer 2 link recovery mechanisms or
satellite links. Mechanisms already exist to measure the link delay dynamically and advertise it
in the IGP. Networks that employ dynamic link-delay measurement, may want to exclude links
that have a delay over a given threshold.

3.1.  IS-IS FAD Constraint Sub-TLVs

3.1.1.  IS-IS Exclude Minimum Bandwidth Sub-TLV

IS-IS Flex-Algorithm Exclude Minimum Bandwidth (FAEMB) sub-TLV is a sub-TLV of the IS-IS
FAD sub-TLV. It has the following format:

    0                   1                   2                   3
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |      Type     |    Length     |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                     Min Bandwidth                             |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 3: IS-IS FAEMB Sub-TLV

where:

Type (1 octet):

An 8-bit field assigned by IANA (6). This value uniquely identifies the FAEMB sub-TLV.

Length (1 octet):

An 8-bit field indicating the total length, in octets, of the subsequent fields. For this sub-TLV,
the Length is set to 4.

Min Bandwidth (4 octets):

A 32-bit field specifying the link bandwidth encoded in IEEE floating point format (32 bits)
[IEEE754-2019]

. The units are bytes per second.

The FAEMB sub-TLV
the IS-IS FAD sub-TLV

MUST

 be ignored by the receiver.

MUST

 appear once at most in the FAD sub-TLV. If it appears more than once,

Hegde, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9843

IGP Flex-Algorithms: Bandwidth, Delay, and Metrics

September 2025

The minimum bandwidth value advertised in the FAEMB sub-TLV
[RFC9479]
maximum link bandwidth value advertised in sub-sub-TLV 9 of the ASLA sub-TLV
the L-flag is set in the ASLA sub-TLV, the minimum bandwidth value advertised in the FAEMB
sub-TLV
TLV 9 of the TLVs 22/222/23/223/141

 be compared with the maximum link bandwidth value as advertised in the sub-
, as defined in

Section 4.2 of [RFC9479]
.

 be compared with

[RFC5305]

MUST

MUST

. If

If the maximum link bandwidth value is lower than the minimum link bandwidth value
advertised in the FAEMB sub-TLV, the link
MUST
If a link does not have the Maximum Link Bandwidth advertised but the FAD contains the
FAEMB sub-TLV, then that link
Bandwidth constraint.

 be excluded from the topology based on the Minimum

 be excluded from the Flex-Algorithm topology.

MUST NOT

3.1.2.  IS-IS Exclude Maximum Delay Sub-TLV

IS-IS Flex-Algorithm Exclude Maximum Delay (FAEMD) sub-TLV is a sub-TLV of the IS-IS FAD sub-
TLV. It has the following format:

    0                   1                   2                   3
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |      Type     |    Length     |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                     Max Link Delay            |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 4: IS-IS FAEMD Sub-TLV

where:

Type (1 octet):

An 8-bit field assigned by IANA (7). This value uniquely identifies the FAEMD sub-TLV.

Length (1 octet):

An 8-bit field indicating the total length, in octets, of the subsequent fields. For this sub-TLV,
the Length is set to 3.

Max Link Delay (3 octets):

A 24-bit field specifying the Maximum link delay in microseconds.

The FAEMD sub-TLV
the IS-IS FAD sub-TLV

MUST

 be ignored by the receiver.

MUST

 appear only once in the FAD sub-TLV. If it appears more than once,

The maximum link delay value advertised in the FAEMD sub-TLV
. If the L-
Unidirectional Link Delay advertised in sub-sub-TLV 34 of the ASLA sub-TLV
flag is set in the ASLA sub-TLV, the maximum link delay value advertised in the FAEMD sub-TLV
MUST
TLVs 22/222/23/223/141

 be compared with Min Unidirectional Link Delay as advertised by the sub-TLV 34 of the

Section 4.2 of [RFC9479]
.

 be compared with Min

, as defined in

[RFC9479]

[RFC8570]

MUST

Hegde, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9843

IGP Flex-Algorithms: Bandwidth, Delay, and Metrics

September 2025

If the Min Unidirectional Link Delay value is higher than the Maximum Link Delay advertised in
the FAEMD sub-TLV, the link
not have the Min Unidirectional Link Delay advertised but the FAD contains the FAEMD sub-TLV,
 be excluded from the topology based on the Maximum Delay constraint.
then that link

 be excluded from the Flex-Algorithm topology. If a link does

MUST NOT

MUST

3.2.  OSPF FAD Constraint Sub-TLVs

3.2.1.  OSPF Exclude Minimum Bandwidth Sub-TLV

OSPF Flex-Algorithm Exclude Minimum Bandwidth (FAEMB) sub-TLV is a sub-TLV of the OSPF
FAD TLV. It has the following format:

    0                   1                   2                   3
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |      Type                     |    Length                     |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                     Min Bandwidth                             |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 5: OSPF FAEMB Sub-TLV

where:

Type (2 octets):

A 16-bit field assigned by IANA (6). This value uniquely identifies the OSPF FAEMB sub-TLV.

Length (2 octets):

A 16-bit field indicating the total length, in octets, of the subsequent fields. For this sub-TLV,
the Length is set to 4.

Min Bandwidth (4 octets):

A 32-bit field specifying the link bandwidth encoded in IEEE floating point format (32 bits)
[IEEE754-2019]

. The units are bytes per second.

The FAEMB sub-TLV
the OSPF FAD TLV

MUST

 be ignored by the receiver.

MUST

 only appear once in the FAD sub-TLV. If it appears more than once,

[RFC7684]

The Maximum Link Bandwidth as advertised in the Extended Link TLV in the Extended Link
 or as a sub-TLV of the Router-Link TLV of the E-Router-LSA
Opaque LSA in OSPFv2
Router-Link TLV in OSPFv3
advertised in the FAEMB sub-TLV. If the link bandwidth value is lower than the Minimum
Bandwidth advertised in the FAEMB sub-TLV, the link
Algorithm topology.

 be compared against the Minimum Bandwidth

 be excluded from the Flex-

[RFC8362] MUST

MUST

If a link does not have the Maximum Link Bandwidth advertised but the FAD contains the
FAEMB sub-TLV, then that link
pruning rules for the link.

 be included in the topology and proceed to apply further

MUST

Hegde, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9843

IGP Flex-Algorithms: Bandwidth, Delay, and Metrics

September 2025

3.2.2.  OSPF Exclude Maximum Delay Sub-TLV

The OSPF Flex-Algorithm Exclude Maximum Delay (FAEMD) sub-TLV is a sub-TLV of the OSPF
FAD TLV. It has the following format.

    0                   1                   2                   3
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |      Type                     |    Length                     |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |  RESERVED     |                     Max Link Delay            |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 6: OSPF FAEMD Sub-TLV

where:

Type (2 octets):

A 16-bit field assigned by IANA (7). This value uniquely identifies the OSPF FAEMD sub-TLV.

Length (2 octets):

A 16-bit field indicating the total length, in octets, of the subsequent fields. For this sub-TLV,
the Length is set to 4.

Reserved (1 octet):

MUST

 be set to zero by the sender and

MUST

 be ignored by the receiver.

Max Link Delay (3 octets):

A 24-bit field specifying the Maximum link delay in microseconds.

The FAEMD sub-TLV
the OSPF FAD TLV

MUST

 be ignored by the receiver.

MUST

 only appear once in the OSPF FAD TLV. If it appears more than once,

The Min Delay value advertised via the Min/Max Unidirectional Link Delay of the ASLA sub-TLV
[RFC9492] MUST
 be compared against the Maximum Delay advertised in the FAEMD sub-TLV. If
the Min Unidirectional Link Delay is higher than the Maximum Delay advertised in the FAEMD
sub-TLV, the link
Unidirectional Link Delay is not advertised for a link but the FAD contains this sub-TLV, then that
link

 be excluded from the topology based on the Maximum Delay constraint.

 be excluded from the Flex-Algorithm topology. If the Min/Max

MUST NOT

MUST

Hegde, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9843

IGP Flex-Algorithms: Bandwidth, Delay, and Metrics

September 2025

4.  Bandwidth Metric Advertisement

Historically, IGP implementations have made default metric assignments based on link
bandwidth. This has proven to be useful but has suffered from having different defaults across
implementations and from the rapid growth of link bandwidths. With Flex-Algorithm, the
network administrator can define a function that will produce a metric for each link and have
each node automatically compute each link's metric based on its bandwidth.

This document defines a standard metric-type for this purpose called the "Bandwidth Metric".
The Bandwidth Metric
to "Bandwidth Metric". IS-IS and OSPF will advertise this type of metric in their link
advertisements. The Bandwidth Metric is a link attribute, and it
[RFC9350]

 for its advertisement and processing during Flex-Algorithm calculation.

 be advertised in the Generic Metric sub-TLV with the metric-type set

Section 12 of

 follow

MUST

MAY

Flex-Algorithm uses this metric-type by specifying the bandwidth metric as the metric-type in a
FAD TLV. A FAD TLV may also specify an automatic computation of the bandwidth metric based
on a link's advertised bandwidth. An explicit advertisement of a link's bandwidth metric using
the Generic Metric sub-TLV overrides this automatic computation. The automatic Bandwidth
metric calculation sub-TLVs are advertised in the FAD TLV, and these parameters are applicable
to applications such as Flex-Algorithm that make use of the FAD TLV.

4.1.  Automatic Metric Calculation

Networks that are designed to be highly regular and that follow uniform metric assignment may
want to simplify their operations by automatically calculating the bandwidth metric. When a
FAD advertises the metric-type as Bandwidth Metric and the link does not have the Bandwidth
Metric advertised, automatic metric derivation can be used with additional FAD constraint
advertisement as described in this section.

If a link's bandwidth changes, then the delay in learning about the change may create the
possibility of micro-loops in the topology. This is no different from the IGP's susceptibility to
micro-loops during a metric change. The micro-loop avoidance procedures described in
[SR-
LOOP-AVOID]
 or any other mechanism as described in the framework
avoid micro-loops when the automatic metric calculation is deployed.

[RFC5715]

 can be used to

Computing the metric between adjacent systems based on bandwidth becomes more complex in
the case of parallel adjacencies. If there are parallel adjacencies between systems, then the
bandwidth between the systems is the sum of the bandwidth of the parallel links. This is
somewhat more complex to deal with, so there is an optional mode for computing the aggregate
bandwidth.

Hegde, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9843

IGP Flex-Algorithms: Bandwidth, Delay, and Metrics

September 2025

4.1.1.  Automatic Metric Calculation Modes

4.1.1.1.  Simple Mode

In Simple Mode, the Maximum Link Bandwidth of a single Layer 3 link is used to derive the
metric. This mode is suitable for deployments that do not use parallel Layer 3 links. In this case,
the computation of the metric is straightforward. If a Layer 3 link is composed of a Layer 2
bundle, then the link bandwidth is the sum of the bandwidths of the working components and
may vary with Layer 2 link failures.

4.1.1.2.  Interface Group Mode

The Simple Mode of metric calculation may not work well when there are multiple parallel
Layer 3 interfaces between two nodes. Ideally, the metric between two systems should be the
same given the same bandwidth, whether the bandwidth is provided by parallel Layer 2 links or
parallel Layer 3 links. To address this, in Interface Group Mode, nodes
aggregate bandwidth of all parallel adjacencies,
bandwidth, and
single elephant flow is normally pinned to a single Layer 3 interface. If the single Layer 3 link
bandwidth is not sufficient for any single elephant flow, the mechanisms to solve this issue are
outside the scope of this document.

 derive the metric based on the aggregate
 apply the resulting metric to each of the parallel adjacencies. Note that a

 compute the

MUST

MUST

MUST

        A------B====C====F====D
               |              |
                ------E-------

Figure 7: Parallel Interfaces

For example, in the above diagram, there are two parallel links between B->C, C->F, F->D. Let us
assume the link bandwidth is uniform 10 Gbps on all links. When bandwidth is used to derive
the metric for the links, the metric for each link will be the same. Traffic from B to D will be
forwarded as B->E->D because the metric will be lower. Since the bandwidth is higher on the
B‑>C->F->D path, the metric for that path should be lower than the B->E->D path to attract the
traffic on the B->C->F->D path. Interface Group Mode should be preferred in cases where there
are parallel Layer 3 links.

In the Interface Group Mode, every node
nodes based on IGP link advertisements and
parallel links while arriving at the metric of each link.

MUST

MUST

 identify the set of parallel links between a pair of

 consider cumulative bandwidth of the

The parallel Layer 3 links between two nodes may not have the same bandwidth. In such cases,
the method described in Interface Group Mode will result in the same metric being used for all
the parallel links, which may cause undesired load balancing on the links. In such cases, a device
may locally apply a load-balancing factor relative to the link bandwidth on the ECMP next hops.
The load-balancing mechanisms are outside the scope of this document.

Hegde, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9843

IGP Flex-Algorithms: Bandwidth, Delay, and Metrics

September 2025

4.1.2.  Automatic Metric Calculation Methods

In automatic metric calculation for simple and Interface Group Mode, Maximum Link
Bandwidth of the links is used to derive the metric. There are two types of automatic metric
derivation methods.

1.

Reference bandwidth method

2.

Bandwidth thresholds method

4.1.2.1.  Reference Bandwidth Method

In many networks, the metric is inversely proportional to the link bandwidth. The administrator
or implementation selects a reference bandwidth and the metric is derived by dividing the
reference bandwidth by the advertised Maximum Link Bandwidth. Advertising the reference
bandwidth in the FAD constraints allows the metric computation to be done on every node for
each link. The metric is computed using reference bandwidth and the advertised link
bandwidth. Centralized control of this reference bandwidth simplifies management in the case
where the reference bandwidth changes. In order to ensure that small bandwidth changes do
not change the link metric, it is useful to define the granularity of the bandwidth that is of
interest. The link bandwidth will be truncated to this granularity before deriving the metric.

For example,

reference bandwidth = 1000G

Granularity = 20G

The derived metric is 10 for link bandwidth in the range 100G to 119G

4.1.2.2.  Bandwidth Thresholds Method

The reference bandwidth approach described above provides a uniform metric value for a
range of link bandwidths. In certain cases, there may be a need to define non-proportional
metric values for the varying ranges of link bandwidth. For example, bandwidths from 10G to
30G are assigned metric value 100, bandwidth from 30G to 70G are assigned a metric value of 50,
and bandwidths greater than 70G have a metric of 10. In order to support this, a staircase
mapping based on bandwidth thresholds is supported in the FAD. This advertisement contains a
set of threshold values and associated metrics.

4.1.3.  IS-IS FAD Constraint Sub-TLVs for Automatic Metric Calculation

4.1.3.1.  Reference Bandwidth Sub-TLV

This section provides FAD constraint advertisement details for the reference bandwidth method
of metric calculation, as described in Section 4.1.2.1. The Flexible Algorithm Definition Reference
Bandwidth (FADRB) sub-TLV is a sub-TLV of the IS-IS FAD sub-TLV. It has the following format:

Hegde, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9843

IGP Flex-Algorithms: Bandwidth, Delay, and Metrics

September 2025

    0                   1                   2                   3
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |      Type     |    Length     |     Flags     |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                      Reference Bandwidth                      |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                      Granularity Bandwidth                    |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 8: IS-IS FADRB Sub-TLV

where:

Type (1 octet):

An 8-bit field assigned by IANA (8). This value uniquely identifies the IS-IS FADRB sub-TLV.

Length (1 octet):

An 8-bit field indicating the total length, in octets, of the subsequent fields. For this sub-TLV,
the Length is set to 9.

Flags (1 octet):

An 8-bit field containing flags.

                 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
                +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
                |G|             |
                +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

G-flag:

When set, Interface Group Mode
MUST

 be set to zero and

MUST

 be ignored by the receiver.

MUST

 be used to derive total link bandwidth. Unassigned bits

Reference Bandwidth (4 octets):

A 32-bit field with Bandwidth encoded in IEEE floating point format
units are bytes per second.

[IEEE754-2019]

. The

Granularity Bandwidth (4 octets):

A 32-bit field with Bandwidth encoded in IEEE floating point format
units are bytes per second.

[IEEE754-2019]

. The

When granularity_bw is less than or equal to Total_link_bandwidth, then:

Metric calculation:

(Reference_bandwidth) / (Total_link_bandwidth - (Modulus

of(Total_link_bandwidth, granularity_bw)))

When granularity_bw is greater than Total_link_bandwidth, then:

Hegde, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9843

IGP Flex-Algorithms: Bandwidth, Delay, and Metrics

September 2025

Metric calculation: Reference_bandwidth / Total_link_bandwidth

The division used here is integer division. Modulus of operation is defined as a remainder value
when two numbers are divided.

The Granularity Bandwidth value ensures that the metric does not change when there is a small
change in the link bandwidth. The IS-IS FADRB sub-TLV
 appear more than once in an
IS-IS FAD sub-TLV. If it appears more than once, the IS-IS FAD sub-TLV
receiver. The value advertised in the Reference Bandwidth field
MUST
value is advertised in the Reference Bandwidth field in the IS-IS FADRB sub-TLV, the sub-TLV
MUST

MUST
 be non-zero. If a zero

 be ignored by the

MUST NOT

 be ignored.

If a Generic Metric sub-TLV with a Bandwidth metric-type is advertised for a link, the Flex-
Algorithm calculation
automatically derived metric for that link.

 use the advertised Bandwidth Metric and

MUST NOT

 use the

MUST

In case of Interface Group Mode, the following rules apply to parallel links:

•

If all the parallel links have been advertised with the Bandwidth Metric:

The individual link Bandwidth Metric

MUST

 be used.

•

If only some links among the parallel links have advertised the Bandwidth Metric:

◦
The Bandwidth Metric for such links
◦
Automatic metric calculation

MUST

MUST

 be ignored.

 be used to derive the link metric.

If the calculated metric evaluates to zero, a metric of 1

MUST

 be used.

If the calculated metric evaluates to a number greater than 0xFFFFFF, it is set to 0xFFFFFF.

4.1.3.2.  Bandwidth Threshold Sub-TLV

This section provides FAD constraint advertisement details for the Bandwidth Thresholds
method of metric calculation as described in Section 4.1.2.2. The Flexible Algorithm Definition
Bandwidth Threshold (FADBT) sub-TLV is a sub-TLV of the IS-IS FAD sub-TLV. It has the following
format:

Hegde, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9843

IGP Flex-Algorithms: Bandwidth, Delay, and Metrics

September 2025

    0                   1                   2                   3
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |      Type     |    Length     |       Flags   |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                     Bandwidth Threshold 1                     |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                     Threshold Metric 1        |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                     Bandwidth Threshold 2                     |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                     Threshold Metric 2        |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                     Bandwidth Threshold 3                     |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
                                  .....
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                     Threshold Metric N-1      |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                     Bandwidth Threshold N                     |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                     Threshold Metric N        |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 9: IS-IS FADBT Sub-TLV

where:

Type (1 octet):

An 8-bit field assigned by IANA (9). This value uniquely identifies the IS-IS FADBT sub-TLV.

Length (1 octet):

An 8-bit field indicating the total length, in octets, of the subsequent fields. For this sub-TLV,
the Length is calculated as (1+N*7). Here, N is equal to the number of Threshold Metrics
specified. N

 be greater than or equal to 1.

MUST

Flags (1 octet):

                 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
                +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
                |G| | |         |
                +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

G-flag:

When set, Interface Group Mode

MUST

 be used to derive total link bandwidth.

Unassigned bits

MUST

 be set to zero and

MUST

 be ignored by the receiver.

Following is the staircase bandwidth threshold and associated metric values.

Hegde, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9843

IGP Flex-Algorithms: Bandwidth, Delay, and Metrics

September 2025

Bandwidth Threshold 1 (4 octets):

Minimum Link Bandwidth is encoded in IEEE floating point format (32 bits)
The units are bytes per second.

[IEEE754-2019]
.

Threshold Metric 1 (3 octets):

Metric value range (1 - 16,777,215 (0xFFFFFF))

Bandwidth Threshold N (4 octets):

Maximum Link Bandwidth is encoded in IEEE floating point format (32 bits)
The units are bytes per second.

[IEEE754-2019]
.

Threshold Metric N (3 octets):

Metric value range (1 - 16,777,215 (0xFFFFFF))

When the G-flag is set, the cumulative bandwidth of the parallel links is computed as described
in Section 4.1.1.2. If the G-flag is not set, the advertised Maximum Link Bandwidth is used.

The assignment of the Bandwidth Metric based on computed link bandwidth is described below.

The Bandwidth Metric for a link during the Flex-Algorithm Shortest Path First (SPF) calculation
MUST

 be assigned according to the following rules:

1.

When the computed link bandwidth is less than Bandwidth Threshold 1:

The Bandwidth Metric

MUST

 be set to the maximum metric value of 4,261,412,864.

2.

When the computed link bandwidth is greater than or equal to Bandwidth Threshold 1 and
less than Bandwidth Threshold 2:

The Bandwidth Metric

MUST

 be set to Threshold Metric 1.

3.

When the computed link bandwidth is greater than or equal to Bandwidth Threshold 2 and
less than Bandwidth Threshold 3:

The Bandwidth Metric

MUST

 be set to Threshold Metric 2.

4.

In general, for all integer values of X such that 1 ≤ X < N:

When the computed link bandwidth is greater than or equal to Bandwidth Threshold X and
less than Bandwidth Threshold X+1:

The Bandwidth Metric

MUST

 be set to Threshold Metric X.

5.

When the computed link bandwidth is greater than or equal to Bandwidth Threshold N:

The Bandwidth Metric

MUST

 be set to Threshold Metric N.

Notes:

•

The term "Bandwidth Threshold X" refers to a predefined threshold value corresponding to
the index X.

•

The term "Threshold Metric X" refers to the metric value associated with Bandwidth
Threshold X.

•

N represents the total number of bandwidth thresholds defined in the system.

Hegde, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9843

IGP Flex-Algorithms: Bandwidth, Delay, and Metrics

September 2025

Implementations
interoperability and optimal path computation within the network.

 ensure that these rules are consistently applied to maintain

MUST

The IS-IS FADBT sub-TLV
more than once, the IS-IS FAD sub-TLV

MUST NOT

MUST

 be ignored by the receiver.

 appear more than once in an IS-IS FAD sub-TLV. If it appears

MUST NOT

A FAD
TLVs are advertised in the same FAD for a Flexible Algorithm, the FAD
receiver.

 contain both the FADBT sub-TLV and the FADRB sub-TLV. If both of these sub-
 be ignored by the

MUST

If a Generic Metric sub-TLV with Bandwidth metric-type is advertised for a link, the Flex-
Algorithm calculation
the automatically derived metric for that link.

 use the Bandwidth Metric advertised on the link and

MUST

MUST NOT

 use

In case of Interface Group Mode, the following rules apply to parallel links:

•

If all the parallel links have been advertised with the Bandwidth Metric:

The individual link Bandwidth Metric

MUST

 be used.

•

If only some links among the parallel links have advertised the Bandwidth Metric:

◦
The Bandwidth Metric for such links
◦
Automatic metric calculation

MUST

MUST

 be ignored.

 be used to derive the link metric.

4.1.4.  OSPF FAD Constraint Sub-TLVs for Automatic Metric Calculation

4.1.4.1.  Reference Bandwidth Sub-TLV

The Flexible Algorithm Definition Reference Bandwidth (FADRB) sub-TLV is a sub-TLV of the
OSPF FAD TLV. It has the following format:

    0                   1                   2                   3
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |      Type                     |    Length                     |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |    Flags   |     Reserved                                     |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                      Reference Bandwidth                      |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                      Granularity Bandwidth                    |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 10: OSPF FADRB Sub-TLV

where:

Type (2 octets):

A 16-bit field assigned by IANA (8). This value uniquely identifies the OSPF FADRB sub-TLV.

Hegde, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9843

IGP Flex-Algorithms: Bandwidth, Delay, and Metrics

September 2025

Length (2 octets):

A 16-bit field indicating the total length, in octets, of the subsequent fields. For this sub-TLV,
Length is set to 14.

Flags (1 octet):

                 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
                +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
                |G| | |         |
                +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

G-flag:

When set, Interface Group Mode

MUST

 be used to derive total link bandwidth.

Unassigned bits

MUST

 be set to zero and

MUST

 be ignored by the receiver.

Reference Bandwidth (4 octets):

Bandwidth encoded in 32 bits in IEEE floating point format
bytes per second.

[IEEE754-2019]

. The units are in

Granularity Bandwidth (4 octets):

Bandwidth encoded in 32 bits in IEEE floating point format
bytes per second.

[IEEE754-2019]

. The units are in

When granularity_bw is less than or equal to Total_link_bandwidth, then:

Metric calculation:

(Reference_bandwidth) / (Total_link_bandwidth - (Modulus of(Total_link_bandwidth,
granularity_bw)))

When granularity_bw is greater than Total_link_bandwidth, then:

Metric calculation:

Reference_bandwidth/ Total_link_bandwidth

The division used here is integer division.

Modulus of operation is defined as a remainder value when two numbers are divided.

The Granularity Bandwidth value is used to ensure that the metric does not change when there
 appear more than
is a small change in the link bandwidth. The OSPF FADRB sub-TLV
once in an OSPF FAD TLV. If it appears more than once, the OSPF FAD TLV
 be ignored by
the receiver. The value advertised in the Reference Bandwidth field
MUST
value is advertised in the Reference Bandwidth field in the OSPF FADRB sub-TLV, the sub-TLV
MUST

 be ignored. If a Generic Metric sub-TLV with Bandwidth metric-type is advertised for a

MUST
 be non-zero. If a zero

MUST NOT

Hegde, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9843

IGP Flex-Algorithms: Bandwidth, Delay, and Metrics

September 2025

link, the Flex-Algorithm calculation
MUST NOT
Mode, the following procedures apply:

 use the automatically derived metric for that link. In the case of Interface Group

MUST

 use the advertised Bandwidth Metric on the link and

•

When all parallel links have advertised the Bandwidth Metric: The individual link
Bandwidth Metric

 be used for each link.

MUST

•

When only a subset of the parallel links have advertised the Bandwidth Metric: The
Bandwidth Metric advertisements for those links
 be ignored. In this scenario,
automatic metric calculation

 be used to derive the link metrics for all parallel links.

MUST

MUST

If the calculated metric evaluates to zero, a metric of 1

MUST

 be used.

If the calculated metric evaluates to a number greater than 0xFFFFFFFF, it is set to 0xFFFFFFFF.

4.1.4.2.  Bandwidth Threshold Sub-TLV

The Flexible Algorithm Definition Bandwidth Threshold (FADBT) sub-TLV is a sub-TLV of the
OSPF FAD TLV. It has the following format:

    0                   1                   2                   3
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |      Type                     |    Length                     |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |    Flags   | Reserved                                         |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                     Bandwidth Threshold 1                     |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                     Threshold Metric 1                        |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                     Bandwidth Threshold 2                     |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                     Threshold Metric 2                        |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                     Bandwidth Threshold 3                     |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
                                  .....
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                     Threshold Metric N-1                      |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                     Bandwidth Threshold N                     |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                     Threshold Metric N                        |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 11: OSPF FADBT Sub-TLV

where:

Hegde, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9843

IGP Flex-Algorithms: Bandwidth, Delay, and Metrics

September 2025

Type (2 octets):

A 16-bit field assigned by IANA (9). This value uniquely identifies the OSPF FADBT sub-TLV.

Length (2 octets):

A 16-bit field indicating the total length, in octets, of the subsequent fields. For this sub-TLV,
Length is set to 2 + N*8 octets. Here, N is equal to the number of Threshold Metrics specified.
N

 be greater than or equal to 1.

MUST

Flags (1 octet):

                 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
                +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
                |G|             |
                +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

G-flag:

When set, Interface Group Mode

MUST

 be used to derive total link bandwidth.

Unassigned bits

MUST

 be set to zero and

MUST

 be ignored by the receiver.

Following is the staircase bandwidth threshold and associated metric values.

Bandwidth Threshold 1 (4 octets):

Minimum Link Bandwidth is encoded in IEEE floating point format (32 bits)
The units are bytes per second.

[IEEE754-2019]
.

Threshold Metric 1 (4 octets):

Metric value range (1 - 4,294,967,296 (0xFFFFFFFF))

Bandwidth Threshold N (4 octets):

Maximum Link Bandwidth is encoded in IEEE floating point format (32 bits)
The units are bytes per second.

[IEEE754-2019]
.

Threshold Metric N (4 octets):

Metric value range (1 - 4,294,967,296 (0xFFFFFFFF))

When the G-flag is set, the cumulative bandwidth of the parallel links is computed as described
in Section 4.1.1.2. If the G-flag is not set, the advertised Maximum Link Bandwidth is used.

The assignment of the Bandwidth Metric based on computed link bandwidth is described below.

During the Flex-Algorithm SPF calculation, the Bandwidth Metric for a link
according to the following rules:

MUST

 be assigned

1.

When the computed link bandwidth is less than Bandwidth Threshold 1:

The Bandwidth Metric

MUST

 be set to the maximum metric value of 4,294,967,296.

2.

When the computed link bandwidth is greater than or equal to Bandwidth Threshold 1 and
less than Bandwidth Threshold 2:

The Bandwidth Metric

MUST

 be set to Threshold Metric 1.

Hegde, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9843

IGP Flex-Algorithms: Bandwidth, Delay, and Metrics

September 2025

3.

When the computed link bandwidth is greater than or equal to Bandwidth Threshold 2 and
less than Bandwidth Threshold 3:

The Bandwidth Metric

MUST

 be set to Threshold Metric 2.

4.

In general, for all integer values of X where 1 ≤X < N:

When the computed link bandwidth is greater than or equal to Bandwidth Threshold X and
less than Bandwidth Threshold X+1:

The Bandwidth Metric

MUST

 be set to Threshold Metric X.

5.

When the computed link bandwidth is greater than or equal to Bandwidth Threshold N:

The Bandwidth Metric

MUST

 be set to Threshold Metric N.

Notes:

•

Bandwidth Threshold X refers to the predefined bandwidth threshold corresponding to
index X.

•

Threshold Metric X is the metric value associated with Bandwidth Threshold X.

•

N represents the total number of bandwidth thresholds defined in the system.

Implementations
maintain interoperability within the network.

MUST

 consistently apply these rules to ensure accurate path computations and

The OSPF FADBT sub-TLV
appears more than once, the OSPF FAD sub-TLV

MUST NOT

 appear more than once in an OSPF FAD sub-TLV. If it

MUST

 be ignored by the receiver.

 contain both the FADBT sub-TLV and the FADRB sub-TLV. If both these sub-TLVs

MUST NOT

A FAD
are advertised in the same FAD for a Flexible Algorithm, the FAD
receiver.

MUST

 be ignored by the

If a Generic Metric sub-TLV with Bandwidth metric-type is advertised for a link, the Flex-
Algorithm calculation
the automatically derived metric for that link.

 use the Bandwidth Metric advertised on the link and

MUST

MUST NOT

 use

Metric Assignment in Interface Group Mode:

When a link does not have a configured Bandwidth Metric, the automatically derived metric
MUST

 be used for that link.

In case of Interface Group Mode, the following rules apply to parallel links:

•

If all parallel links have advertised the Bandwidth Metric:

The individual link Bandwidth Metric

MUST

 be used for each link during path computation.

•

If only some of the parallel links have advertised the Bandwidth Metric:

The Bandwidth Metric advertisements for those links
◦
◦
Automatic metric calculation

MUST

MUST

 be ignored.

 be used to derive the link metrics for all parallel links.

Hegde, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9843

IGP Flex-Algorithms: Bandwidth, Delay, and Metrics

September 2025

This approach ensures consistent metric calculation and avoids discrepancies caused by partial
Bandwidth Metric advertisements among parallel links.

5.  Bandwidth Metric Considerations

This section specifies the rules of deriving the Bandwidth Metric if and only if the winning FAD
for the Flex-Algorithm specifies the metric-type as "Bandwidth Metric".

1.

If the Generic Metric sub-TLV with Bandwidth metric-type is advertised for the link as
described in Section 4, it

 be used during the Flex-Algorithm calculation.

MUST

2.

If the Generic Metric sub-TLV with Bandwidth metric-type is not advertised for the link and
the winning FAD for the Flex-Algorithm does not specify the automatic Bandwidth metric
calculation (as defined in Section 4.1), the link is treated as if the Bandwidth Metric is not
available for the link.

3.

If the Generic Metric sub-TLV with Bandwidth metric-type is not advertised for the link and
the winning FAD (
Bandwidth metric calculation (as defined in Section 4.1), the Bandwidth Metric
automatically calculated per the procedures defined in Section 4.1. If the Link Bandwidth is
not advertised for a link, the link

 be pruned for the Flex-Algorithm calculations.

) for the Flex-Algorithm specifies the automatic

Section 5.3 of [RFC9350]

MUST

MUST

 be

4.

In IS-IS, for Flex-Algorithm purposes, the Link Bandwidth is advertised as a sub-sub-TLV 9 of
the Flex-Algorithm-specific ASLA sub-TLV. It is also possible to advertise the link bandwidth
or Flex-Algorithm in sub-TLV 9 of TLVs 22/222/23/223/141
 together with the L-flag
set in the Flex-Algorithm-specific ASLA advertisement. In the absence of both of these
advertisements, the bandwidth of the link is not available for Flex-Algorithm purposes.

[RFC5305]

6.  Calculation of Flex-Algorithm Paths

The following two new additional rules are added to the existing rules in the Flex-Algorithm
calculations specified in

Section 13 of [RFC9350]
:

6.

Check if any exclude FAEMB rule is part of the Flex-Algorithm definition. If such
exclude rule exists and the link has Maximum Link Bandwidth advertised, check if
the link bandwidth satisfies the FAEMB rule. If the link does not satisfy the FAEMB
rule, the link

 be pruned from the Flex-Algorithm computation.

MUST

7.

Check if any exclude FAEMD rule is part of the Flex-Algorithm definition. If such
exclude rule exists and the link has Min Unidirectional link delay advertised, check
if the link delay satisfies the FAEMD rule. If the link does not satisfy the FAEMD
rule, the link

 be pruned from the Flex-Algorithm computation.

MUST

Hegde, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9843

IGP Flex-Algorithms: Bandwidth, Delay, and Metrics

September 2025

7.  Backward Compatibility

This extension brings no new backward-compatibility issues. This document defines new FAD
constraints in Sections 3, 4.1.3, and 4.1.4. As described in
understand sub-TLVs in a FAD TLV stops participation in the corresponding Flex-Algorithm. The
new extensions can be deployed among the nodes that are upgraded to understand the new
extensions without affecting the nodes that are not upgraded. This document also defines a new
metric advertisement as described in Section 2. As per
do not advertise the metric-type specified by the selected FAD, the link is pruned from Flex-
Algorithm calculations. The new metric-types and Flex-Algorithms using the new metric-types
can be deployed in the network without affecting existing deployment.

, any node that does not

Section 13 of [RFC9350]

, when the links

[RFC9350]

8.  Security Considerations

This document inherits security considerations from

[RFC9350]
.

9.  Operational Considerations

Operational considerations defined in
document as well. This document defines a metric-type range for user-defined metrics. When
user-defined metrics are used in an inter-area or inter-level network, all the domains should
assign same meaning to the particular metric-type. The YANG data models for Flex-Algorithm
extensions are defined in documents

 generally apply to the extensions defined in this

[OSPF-AUGMENTATION]

[ISIS-AUGMENTATION]
.

[RFC9350]

 and

Before the router goes into maintenance activity, the traffic needs to be diverted away from the
router. This is achieved by setting the overload bit or setting link metrics on the router to a high
value. In case of Generic Metric, the link metrics can be set to a Maximum usable metric for
OSPF and IS-IS. The traffic will be diverted away from the router to a shorter available path. If
there are no alternate paths available, traffic will stay on the router as the links are not removed
from the Flex-Algorithm calculation when they are set to a maximum metric per

[RFC9350]
.

10.  IANA Considerations

10.1.  IGP Metric-Type Registry

The "IGP Metric-Type" registry has been updated to include another column specifying whether
the particular metric-type is allowed in the Generic Metric sub-TLV. The range 128-255 is
redefined by this document as a user-defined range, and this range does not require Standards
Action

[RFC8126]
.

Hegde, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9843

IGP Flex-Algorithms: Bandwidth, Delay, and Metrics

September 2025

Type

Description

Reference

Allowed in
Generic-
Metric

0

1

2

3

IGP Metric

Min Unidirectional Link Delay as defined in
[RFC8570], Section 4.2
4.2

[RFC7471], Section

 and

Traffic Engineering Default Metric as defined in
[RFC5305], Section 3.7
Metric as defined in

 and Traffic Engineering

[RFC3630], Section 2.5.5

Bandwidth Metric

128-255

Reserved for User-Defined Metric

Table 1: IGP Metric-Type Registry

Section 5.1 of
[RFC9350]

Section 5.1 of
[RFC9350]

Section 5.1 of
[RFC9350]

RFC 9843

RFC 9843

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

10.2.  IS-IS Sub-Sub-TLVs for Flexible Algorithm Definition Sub-TLV

The "IS-IS Sub-Sub-TLVs for Flexible Algorithm Definition Sub-TLV" registry is part of the "IS-IS
TLV Codepoints" registry group.

6

Type:
Description:
Reference:

7

Type:
Description:
Reference:

8

Type:
Description:
Reference:

9

Type:
Description:
Reference:

IS-IS Exclude Minimum Bandwidth

RFC 9843, Section 3.1.1

IS-IS Exclude Maximum Delay

RFC 9843, Section 3.1.2

IS-IS Reference Bandwidth

RFC 9843, Section 4.1.3.1

IS-IS Bandwidth Threshold

RFC 9843, Section 4.1.3.2

Hegde, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9843

IGP Flex-Algorithms: Bandwidth, Delay, and Metrics

September 2025

10.3.  OSPF Sub-TLVs for Flexible Algorithm Definition Sub-TLV

The "OSPF Flexible Algorithm Definition TLV Sub-TLVs" registry is part of the "Open Shortest
Path First (OSPF) Parameters" registry group.

6

Type:
Description:
Reference:

7

Type:
Description:
Reference:

8

Type:
Description:
Reference:

9

Type:
Description:
Reference:

OSPF Exclude Minimum Bandwidth

RFC 9843, Section 3.2.1

OSPF Exclude Maximum Delay

RFC 9843, Section 3.2.2

OSPF Reference Bandwidth

RFC 9843, Section 4.1.4.1

OSPF Bandwidth Threshold

RFC 9843, Section 4.1.4.2

10.4.  IS-IS Sub-TLVs for TLVs Advertising Neighbor Information

The "IS-IS Sub-TLVs for TLVs Advertising Neighbor Information" registry is part of the "IS-IS TLV
Codepoints" registry group.

17

Type:
Description:
TLVs set to "Y":
Reference:

Generic Metric

22, 23, 25, 141, 222, and 223

RFC 9843, Section 2.1

10.5.  Sub-Sub-TLV Codepoints for Application-Specific Link Attributes

The "IS-IS Sub-Sub-TLV Codepoints for Application-Specific Link Attributes" registry is part of the
"IS-IS TLV Codepoints" registry group.

17

Type:
Description:
Reference:

Generic Metric

RFC 9843, Section 2.1

Hegde, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 9843

IGP Flex-Algorithms: Bandwidth, Delay, and Metrics

September 2025

10.6.  OSPFv2 Extended Link TLV Sub-TLVs

The "OSPFv2 Extended Link TLV Sub-TLVs" registry is part of the "Open Shortest Path First v2
(OSPFv2) Parameters" registry group.

25
Value:
Description:
Y
L2BM:
Reference:

Generic Metric

RFC 9843, Section 2.2

10.7.  Types for Sub-TLVs of TE Link TLV (Value 2)

The "Types for sub-TLVs of TE Link TLV (Value 2)" registry is part of the "Open Shortest Path First
(OSPF) Traffic Engineering TLVs" registry group.

36
Value:
Description:
Reference:

Generic Metric

RFC 9843, Section 2.2

10.8.  OSPFv3 Extended-LSA Sub-TLVs

The "OSPFv3 Extended-LSA Sub-TLVs" registry is part of the "Open Shortest Path First v3
(OSPFv3) Parameters" registry group.

34
Value:
Description:
Y
L2BM:
Reference:

Generic Metric

RFC 9843, Section 2.2

11.  References

11.1.  Normative References

[IEEE754-2019]

[RFC1195]

[RFC2119]

,

IEEE "IEEE Standard for Floating-Point Arithmetic" IEEE Std 754-2019 DOI
10.1109/ieeestd.2019.8766229
2019.8766229>
.

<https://doi.org/10.1109/ieeestd.

, 22 July 2019,

,

,

,

Callon, R. "Use of OSI IS-IS for routing in TCP/IP and dual environments" RFC
1195 DOI 10.17487/RFC1195
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
,
rfc1195>

, December 1990,

.

,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Hegde, et al.

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 9843

IGP Flex-Algorithms: Bandwidth, Delay, and Metrics

September 2025

[RFC2328]

[RFC3630]

[RFC5305]

[RFC5329]

[RFC5392]

[RFC7684]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8362]

[RFC8668]

[RFC9350]

[RFC9356]

[RFC9479]

,

Moy, J. "OSPF Version 2" STD 54 RFC 2328 DOI 10.17487/RFC2328
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2328>

,

,

.

, April 1998,

,

D. Yeung "Traffic Engineering (TE) Extensions to
Katz, D. Kompella, K.
, and
<https://
OSPF Version 2" RFC 3630 DOI 10.17487/RFC3630
,
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3630>

, September 2003,

,

.

 and

Li, T.
,
10.17487/RFC5305

H. Smit "IS-IS Extensions for Traffic Engineering" RFC 5305 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5305>

, October 2008,

,

,

.

,

Ishiguro, K. Manral, V. Davey, A.
Extensions to OSPF Version 3" RFC 5329 DOI 10.17487/RFC5329
2008,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5329>

, and

,

,

,

.

A. Lindem, Ed. "Traffic Engineering

,

, September

Chen, M. Zhang, R.
,
Autonomous System (AS) MPLS and GMPLS Traffic Engineering" RFC 5392 DOI
10.17487/RFC5392

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5392>
.

X. Duan "OSPF Extensions in Support of Inter-

, January 2009,

, and

,

,

,

Psenak, P. Gredler, H. Shakir, R. Henderickx, W. Tantsura, J.
"OSPFv2 Prefix/Link Attribute Advertisement" RFC 7684 DOI 10.17487/RFC7684
,
November 2015,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7684>

A. Lindem

, and

,

,

,

,

.

,

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

, June

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Lindem, A. Roy, A. Goethals, D. Reddy Vallem, V.
State Advertisement (LSA) Extensibility" RFC 8362 DOI 10.17487/RFC8362
2018,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8362>

, and
,

F. Baker "OSPFv3 Link

,

,

,

,

.

, April

,

Ginsberg, L., Ed. Bashandy, A. Filsfils, C. Nanduri, M.
Layer 2 Bundle Member Link Attributes in IS-IS" RFC 8668 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8668

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8668>

E. Aries "Advertising
, and
,

, December 2019,

,

,

,

,

.

,

Psenak, P., Ed. Hegde, S. Filsfils, C. Talaulikar, K.
,
Algorithm" RFC 9350 DOI 10.17487/RFC9350
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc9350>

,

.

, and

A. Gulko "IGP Flexible

,

, February 2023,

<https://www.rfc-

Talaulikar, K., Ed.
Attributes in OSPF" RFC 9356 DOI 10.17487/RFC9356
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9356>

 and
,

,

.

P. Psenak "Advertising Layer 2 Bundle Member Link

,

, January 2023,

<https://

,

J. Drake "IS-IS
Ginsberg, L. Psenak, P. Previdi, S. Henderickx, W.
,
Application-Specific Link Attributes" RFC 9479 DOI 10.17487/RFC9479
2023,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9479>
.

, and

,

,

,

, October

Hegde, et al.

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 9843

IGP Flex-Algorithms: Bandwidth, Delay, and Metrics

September 2025

[RFC9492]

,

J. Drake "OSPF
Psenak, P., Ed. Ginsberg, L. Henderickx, W. Tantsura, J.
,
,
Application-Specific Link Attributes" RFC 9492 DOI 10.17487/RFC9492
2023,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9492>
.

, and

,

,

, October

11.2.  Informative References

[ISIS-AUGMENTATION]

Lindem, A. Qu, Y.

,

, and

S. Litkowski "IS-IS YANG Model

,

Augmentations for Additional Features - Release 1" Work in Progress Internet-
Draft, draft-ietf-lsr-isis-yang-augmentation-v1-10
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-lsr-isis-yang-augmentation-v1-10>

,
<https://

, 6 July 2025,

,

.

[OSPF-AUGMENTATION]

Lindem, A.

 and

Y. Qu "OSPF YANG Model Augmentations for

Additional Features - Release 1" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-lsr-
ospf-yang-augmentation-v1-17
html/draft-ietf-lsr-ospf-yang-augmentation-v1-17>

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/

, 6 July 2025,

,

.

,
,

[RFC4655]

[RFC5120]

[RFC5311]

[RFC5715]

[RFC7471]

[RFC8570]

[RFC9346]

,

Farrel, A. Vasseur, J.-P.
Architecture" RFC 4655 DOI 10.17487/RFC4655
,
editor.org/info/rfc4655>
.

, and

,

J. Ash "A Path Computation Element (PCE)-Based

,

, August 2006,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Przygienda, T. Shen, N.
Intermediate System to Intermediate Systems (IS-ISs)" RFC 5120 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5120

N. Sheth "M-ISIS: Multi Topology (MT) Routing in

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5120>

, February 2008,

, and

,

,

,

.

McPherson, D., Ed. Ginsberg, L. Previdi, S.
of Link State PDU (LSP) Space for IS-IS" RFC 5311 DOI 10.17487/RFC5311
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5311>
February 2009,

, and

M. Shand "Simplified Extension

,

,

,

,

,

,

.

Shand, M.
DOI 10.17487/RFC5715

S. Bryant "A Framework for Loop-Free Convergence" RFC 5715
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5715>
.

, January 2010,

 and

,

,

,

S. Previdi "OSPF Traffic
Giacalone, S. Ward, D. Drake, J. Atlas, A.
Engineering (TE) Metric Extensions" RFC 7471 DOI 10.17487/RFC7471
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7471>
2015,
.

, and

,

,

,

,

, March

,

Q. Wu "IS-
Ginsberg, L., Ed. Previdi, S., Ed. Giacalone, S. Ward, D. Drake, J.
,
IS Traffic Engineering (TE) Metric Extensions" RFC 8570 DOI 10.17487/RFC8570
,
March 2019,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8570>

, and

,
,

,

.

,

,

,

,

Chen, M. Ginsberg, L. Previdi, S.
of Inter-Autonomous System (AS) MPLS and GMPLS Traffic Engineering" RFC
9346 DOI 10.17487/RFC9346
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
,
rfc9346>

D. Xiaodong "IS-IS Extensions in Support

, February 2023,

, and

.

,

,

[SR-LOOP-AVOID]

Bashandy, A. Filsfils, C. Litkowski, S. Decraene, B. Francois, P.

,

,

,

,

,

Psenak "Loop avoidance using Segment Routing" Work in Progress Internet-
Draft, draft-bashandy-rtgwg-segment-routing-uloop-17
<https://
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-bashandy-rtgwg-segment-routing-uloop-17>

,

.

, and
,
, 29 June 2024,

P.

Hegde, et al.

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 9843

IGP Flex-Algorithms: Bandwidth, Delay, and Metrics

September 2025

Appendix A.  Updated List of Rules for Pruning Links in Flex-
Algorithm Topology

This section lists the entire set of rules to prune links from Flex-Algorithm topology during
Flexible Algorithm calculation. It includes the original rules defined in
as well as the new additions (rules 6 and 7) described in this document.

Section 13 of [RFC9350]

For all links in the topology:

1.

Check if any exclude Administrative Group rule is part of the Flex-Algorithm Definition. If
such exclude rule exists, check if any color that is part of the exclude rule is also set on the
link. If such a color is set, the link

 be pruned from the computation.

MUST

2.

Check if any exclude SRLG rule is part of the Flex-Algorithm Definition. If such exclude rule
exists, check if the link is part of any SRLG that is also part of the SRLG exclude rule. If the
link is part of such SRLG, the link

 be pruned from the computation.

MUST

3.

Check if any include-any Administrative Group rule is part of the Flex-Algorithm Definition.
If such include-any rule exists, check if any color that is part of the include-any rule is also
set on the link. If no such color is set, the link

 be pruned from the computation.

MUST

4.

Check if any include-all Administrative Group rule is part of the Flex-Algorithm Definition. If
such include-all rule exists, check if all colors that are part of the include-all rule are also set
on the link. If all such colors are not set on the link, the link
computation.

 be pruned from the

MUST

5.

If the Flex-Algorithm Definition uses something other than the IGP metric (
[RFC9350]
the computation is done, such link
0

), and such metric is not advertised for the particular link in a topology for which
 be pruned from the computation. A metric of value

MUST
 be assumed in such a case.

Section 5 of

MUST NOT

6.

Check if any exclude FAEMB rule is part of the Flex-Algorithm Definition. If such exclude
rule exists and the link has Maximum Link Bandwidth advertised, check if the link
bandwidth satisfies the FAEMB rule. If the link does not satisfy the FAEMB rule, the link
MUST

 be pruned from the Flex-Algorithm computation.

7.

Check if any exclude FAEMD rule is part of the Flex-Algorithm Definition. If such exclude
rule exists and the link has Min Unidirectional Link Delay advertised, check if the link delay
satisfies the FAEMD rule. If the link does not satisfy the FAEMD rule, the link
pruned from the Flex-Algorithm computation.

MUST

 be

Acknowledgements

Many thanks to
Talaulikar
, and

Chris Bowers Krzysztof Szarcowitz Julian Lucek Ram Santhanakrishnan Ketan
Acee Lindem

,
 for discussions and input.

,

,

,

Hegde, et al.

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 9843

IGP Flex-Algorithms: Bandwidth, Delay, and Metrics

September 2025

Contributors

Salih K.A.
Juniper Networks
Email:

salih@juniper.net

Authors' Addresses

Shraddha Hegde
Juniper Networks Inc.
Exora Business Park
Bangalore 560103
Karnataka
India
Email:

shraddha@juniper.net

William Britto
Juniper Networks Inc.
Email:

bwilliam@juniper.net

Rajesh Shetty
Juniper Networks Inc.
Email:

mrajesh@juniper.net

Bruno Decraene
Orange
Email:

bruno.decraene@orange.com

Peter Psenak
Cisco Systems
Email:

ppsenak@cisco.com

Tony Li
Juniper Networks Inc.
Email:
tony.li@tony.li

Hegde, et al.

Standards Track

Page 33

