Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9251
Standards Track
June 2022
2070-1721
A. Sajassi
Cisco Systems

S. Thoria
Cisco Systems

M. Mishra
Cisco Systems

K. Patel
Arrcus

J. Drake
Juniper Networks

W. Lin
Juniper Networks

RFC 9251
Internet Group Management Protocol (IGMP) and
Multicast Listener Discovery (MLD) Proxies for
Ethernet VPN (EVPN)

Abstract

This document describes how to support endpoints running the Internet Group Management
Protocol (IGMP) or Multicast Listener Discovery (MLD) eﬃciently for the multicast services over
an Ethernet VPN (EVPN) network by incorporating IGMP/MLD Proxy procedures on EVPN
Provider Edges (PEs).

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

.
https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9251

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Sajassi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9251

IGMP and MLD Proxies for EVPN

June 2022

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Speciﬁcation of Requirements

3.  Terminology

4.  IGMP/MLD Proxy

4.1.  Proxy Reporting

4.1.1.  IGMP/MLD Membership Report Advertisement in BGP

4.1.2.  IGMP/MLD Leave Group Advertisement in BGP

4.2.  Proxy Querier

5.  Operation

5.1.  PE with Only Attached Hosts for a Given Subnet

5.2.  PE with a Mix of Attached Hosts and a Multicast Source

5.3.  PE with a Mix of Attached Hosts, a Multicast Source, and a Router

6.  All-Active Multihoming

6.1.  Local IGMP/MLD Membership Report Synchronization

6.2.  Local IGMP/MLD Leave Group Synchronization

6.2.1.  Remote Leave Group Synchronization

6.2.2.  Common Leave Group Synchronization

6.3.  Mass Withdraw of the Multicast Membership Report Synch Route in Case of Failure

7.  Single-Active Multihoming

8.  Selective Multicast Procedures for IR Tunnels

9.  BGP Encoding

9.1.  Selective Multicast Ethernet Tag Route

9.1.1.  Constructing the Selective Multicast Ethernet Tag Route

9.1.2.  Reconstructing IGMP/MLD Membership Reports from the Selective Multicast Route

9.1.3.  Default Selective Multicast Route

Sajassi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9251

IGMP and MLD Proxies for EVPN

June 2022

9.2.  Multicast Membership Report Synch Route

9.2.1.  Constructing the Multicast Membership Report Synch Route

9.2.2.  Reconstructing IGMP/MLD Membership Reports from a Multicast Membership

Report Synch Route

9.3.  Multicast Leave Synch Route

9.3.1.  Constructing the Multicast Leave Synch Route

9.3.2.  Reconstructing IGMP/MLD Leave from a Multicast Leave Synch Route

9.4.  Multicast Flags Extended Community

9.5.  EVI-RT Extended Community

9.6.  Rewriting of RT ECs and EVI-RT ECs by ASBRs

9.7.  BGP Error Handling

10. IGMP Version 1 Membership Report

11. Security Considerations

12. IANA Considerations

12.1.  EVPN Extended Community Sub-Types Registration

12.2.  EVPN Route Types Registration

12.3.  Multicast Flags Extended Community Registry

13. References

13.1.  Normative References

13.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

In data center (DC) applications, a point of delivery (POD) can consist of a collection of servers
supported by several top-of-rack (ToR) and spine switches. This collection of servers and switches
are self-contained and may have their own control protocol for intra-POD communication and
orchestration. However, EVPN is used as a standard way of inter-POD communication for both
intra-DC and inter-DC. A subnet can span across multiple PODs and DCs. EVPN provides a robust

Sajassi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9251

IGMP and MLD Proxies for EVPN

June 2022

multi-tenant solution with extensive multihoming capabilities to stretch a subnet (VLAN) across
multiple PODs and DCs. There can be many hosts (several hundreds) attached to a subnet that is
stretched across several PODs and DCs.

These hosts express their interests in multicast groups on a given subnet/VLAN by sending IGMP/
MLD Membership Reports for their interested multicast group(s). Furthermore, an IGMP/MLD
router periodically sends Membership Queries to ﬁnd out if there are hosts on that subnet that are
still interested in receiving multicast traﬃc for that group. The IGMP/MLD Proxy solution
described in this document accomplishes three objectives:

1.

Reduce ﬂooding of IGMP/MLD messages: Just like the ARP/Neighbor Discovery (ND)
suppression mechanism in EVPN to reduce the ﬂooding of ARP messages over EVPN, it is also
desired to have a mechanism to reduce the ﬂooding of IGMP/MLD messages (both Queries
and Membership Reports) in EVPN.

2.

Distributed anycast multicast proxy: It is desirable for the EVPN network to act as a
distributed anycast multicast router with respect to IGMP/MLD Proxy function for all the
hosts attached to that subnet.

3.

Selective multicast: This describes forwarding multicast traﬃc over the EVPN network such
that it only gets forwarded to the PEs that have interests in the multicast group(s). This
document shows how this objective may be achieved when ingress replication is used to
distribute the multicast traﬃc among the PEs. Procedures for supporting selective multicast
using Point-to-Multipoint (P2MP) tunnels can be found in

[EVPN-BUM]

.

The ﬁrst two objectives are achieved by using the IGMP/MLD Proxy on the PE. The third objective
is achieved by setting up a multicast tunnel among only the PEs that have interest in the
multicast group(s) based on the trigger from IGMP/MLD Proxy processes. The proposed solutions
for each of these objectives are discussed in the following sections.

2.  Speciﬁcation of Requirements

", "
The key words "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
"
", "
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

3.  Terminology

AC:

Attachment Circuit

All-Active Redundancy Mode:

When all PEs attached to an Ethernet segment are allowed to

forward known unicast traﬃc to/from that Ethernet segment for a given VLAN, then the
Ethernet segment is deﬁned to be operating in All-Active redundancy mode.

BD:

Broadcast Domain. As per

[RFC7432]

, an EVPN instance (EVI) consists of a single BD or

multiple BDs. In case of a VLAN bundle and a VLAN-aware bundle service model, an EVI
contains multiple BDs. Also, in this document, BD and subnet are equivalent terms.

Sajassi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9251

IGMP and MLD Proxies for EVPN

June 2022

DC:

Data Center

ES:

Ethernet segment. This is when a customer site (device or network) is connected to one or

more PEs via a set of Ethernet links.

ESI:

Ethernet Segment Identiﬁer. This is a unique non-zero identiﬁer that identiﬁes an Ethernet

segment.

Ethernet Tag:

It identiﬁes a particular broadcast domain, e.g., a VLAN. An EVPN instance

consists of one or more broadcast domains.

EVI:

EVPN Instance. This spans the Provider Edge (PE) devices participating in that EVPN.

EVPN:

Ethernet Virtual Private Network

IGMP:

Internet Group Management Protocol

IR:

Ingress Replication

MLD:

Multicast Listener Discovery

OIF:

Outgoing Interface for multicast. It can be a physical interface, virtual interface, or tunnel.

PE:

Provider Edge

POD:

Point of Delivery

S-PMSI:

Selective P-Multicast Service Interface. This is a conceptual interface for a PE to send

customer multicast traﬃc to some of the PEs in the same VPN.

Single-Active Redundancy Mode:

When only a single PE, among all the PEs attached to an
Ethernet segment, is allowed to forward traﬃc to/from that Ethernet segment for a given
VLAN, then the Ethernet segment is deﬁned to be operating in Single-Active redundancy mode.

SMET:

Selective Multicast Ethernet Tag

ToR:

Top of Rack

, and
. When this document uses the term "IGMP Membership Report", the text equally

This document also assumes familiarity with the terminology of
[RFC2236]
applies to the MLD Membership Report. Similarly, text for IGMPv2 applies to MLDv1, and text for
IGMPv3 applies to MLDv2. IGMP/MLD version encoding in the BGP update is stated in Section 9.

,
[RFC7432] [RFC3376]

It is important to note that when there is text considering whether a PE indicates support for
IGMP proxying, the corresponding behavior has a natural analog for indicating support for MLD
proxying, and the analogous requirements apply as well.

Sajassi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9251

IGMP and MLD Proxies for EVPN

June 2022

4.  IGMP/MLD Proxy

The IGMP Proxy mechanism is used to reduce the ﬂooding of IGMP messages over an EVPN
network, similar to the ARP proxy used in reducing the ﬂooding of ARP messages over EVPN. It
also provides a triggering mechanism for the PEs to set up their underlay multicast tunnels. The
IGMP Proxy mechanism consists of two components:

1.

Proxy for IGMP Membership Reports

2.

Proxy for IGMP Membership Queries

The goal of IGMP and MLD proxying is to make the EVPN behave seamlessly for the tenant
systems with respect to multicast operations while using a more eﬃcient delivery system for
signaling and delivery across the VPN. Accordingly, group state must be tracked synchronously
among the PEs serving the VPN, with join and leave events propagated to the peer PEs and each
PE tracking the state of each of its peer PEs with respect to whether there are locally attached
group members (and in some cases, senders), what version(s) of IGMP/MLD are in use for those
locally attached group members, etc. In order to perform this translation, each PE acts as an
IGMP router for the locally attached domain, maintains the requisite state on locally attached
nodes, sends periodic Membership Queries, etc. The role of EVPN Selective Multicast Ethernet Tag
(SMET) route propagation is to ensure that each PE's local state is propagated to the other PEs so
that they share a consistent view of the overall IGMP Membership Request and Leave Group
state. It is important to note that the need to keep such local state can be triggered by either local
IGMP traﬃc or BGP EVPN signaling. In most cases, a local IGMP event will need to be signaled
over EVPN, though state initiated by received EVPN traﬃc will not always need to be relayed to
the locally attached domain.

4.1.  Proxy Reporting

When IGMP is used between hosts and their ﬁrst hop EVPN router (EVPN PE), proxy reporting is
used by the EVPN PE to summarize (when possible) reports received from downstream hosts and
propagate them in BGP to other PEs that are interested in the information. This is done by
terminating the IGMP Membership Reports in the ﬁrst hop PE and translating and exchanging
the relevant information among EVPN BGP speakers. The information is again translated back to
an IGMP message at the recipient EVPN speaker. Thus, it helps create an IGMP overlay subnet
using BGP. In order to facilitate such an overlay, this document also deﬁnes a new EVPN route
type Network Layer Reachability Information (NLRI) and the EVPN SMET route, along with its
procedures to help exchange and register IGMP multicast groups; see Section 9.

4.1.1.  IGMP/MLD Membership Report Advertisement in BGP

When a PE wants to advertise an IGMP Membership Report using the BGP EVPN route, it follows
the proceeding rules (BGP encoding is stated in Section 9). The ﬁrst four rules are applicable to the
originator PE, and the last three rules are applicable to remote PE processing SMET routes:

Sajassi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9251

IGMP and MLD Proxies for EVPN

June 2022

Processing at the BGP route originator:

1.

SHOULD

When the ﬁrst hop PE receives IGMP Membership Reports belonging to the same IGMP
version from diﬀerent attached hosts for the same (*,G) or (S,G), it
message corresponding to the very ﬁrst IGMP Membership Request (BGP update as soon as
possible) for that (*,G) or (S,G). This is because BGP is a stateful protocol, and no further
transmission of the same report is needed. If the IGMP Membership Request is for (*,G), then
the Multicast Group Address
v3) set. In case of IGMPv3, the exclude ﬂag
address must be excluded (include all sources "*"). If the IGMP Membership Report is for (S,G),
then besides setting the Multicast Group Address along with the v3 ﬂag, the source IP address
and the Include/Exclude (IE) ﬂag
EVPN route for (S,G), the only valid version ﬂag is v3 (v2 ﬂags

 be set. It should be noted that, when advertising the
MUST

 be sent along with the corresponding version ﬂag (v2 or

 also be set to indicate that no source IP

 send a single BGP

 be set to 0).

MUST

MUST

MUST

2.

When the ﬁrst hop PE receives an IGMPv3 Membership Report for (S,G) on a given BD, it
MUST
attached to itself or not, in order to facilitate the source move in the future.

 advertise the corresponding EVPN SMET route, regardless of whether the source (S) is

3.

When the ﬁrst hop PE receives an IGMP version-X Membership Report ﬁrst for (*,G) and then
later receives an IGMP version-Y Membership Report for the same (*,G), then it
MUST
advertise the same EVPN SMET route with the ﬂag for version-Y set in addition to any
previously set version ﬂag(s). In other words, the ﬁrst hop PE
route before sending the new route because the Flags ﬁeld is not part of BGP route key
processing.

 withdraw the EVPN

MUST NOT

 re-

4.

When the ﬁrst hop PE receives an IGMP version-X Membership Report ﬁrst for (*,G) and then
later receives an IGMPv3 Membership Report for the same Multicast Group Address but for a
speciﬁc source address S, then the PE
 advertise a new EVPN SMET route with the v3 ﬂag
set (and v2 reset). The IE ﬂag also needs to be set accordingly. Since the source IP address is
used as part of BGP route key processing, it is considered to be a new BGP route
advertisement. When diﬀerent versions of IGMP Membership Report are received, the ﬁnal
state
remote group record state

. At the end of the route processing, local and
.

Section 5.1 of [RFC3376]

Section 5.1 of [RFC3376]

 be as per

 be as per

MUST

MUST

MUST

Processing at the BGP route receiver:

1.

When a PE receives an EVPN SMET route with more than one version ﬂag set, it will generate
the corresponding IGMP Report for (*,G) for each version speciﬁed in the Flags ﬁeld. With
multiple version ﬂags set, there must not be a source IP address in the received EVPN route. If
there is, then an error
 be logged. If the v3 ﬂag is set (in addition to v2), then the IE ﬂag
 be logged. The PE
MUST
IGMP Membership Report for that (*,G) and each IGMP version in the version ﬂag.

SHOULD
 indicate "exclude". If not, then an error

 generate an

SHOULD

MUST

2.

When a PE receives a list of EVPN SMET NLRIs in its BGP update message, each with a
diﬀerent source IP address and the same Multicast Group Address, and the version ﬂag is set
to v3, then the PE generates an IGMPv3 Membership Report with a record corresponding to
the list of source IP addresses and the group address, along with the proper indication of
inclusion/exclusion.

Sajassi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9251

IGMP and MLD Proxies for EVPN

June 2022

3.

Upon receiving an EVPN SMET route(s) and before generating the corresponding IGMP
Membership Request(s), the PE checks to see whether it has a Customer Edge (CE) multicast
router for that BD on any of its ESs . The PE provides such a check by listening for PIM Hello
messages on that AC, i.e., (ES,BD). If the PE does have the router's ACs, then the generated
IGMP Membership Request(s) is sent to those ACs. If it doesn't have any of the router's ACs,
then no IGMP Membership Request(s) needs to be generated. This is because sending IGMP
Membership Requests to other hosts can result in unintentionally preventing a host from
joining a speciﬁc multicast group using IGMPv2, i.e., if the PE does not receive a Membership
Report from the host, it will not forward multicast data to it. Per
 , when an IGMPv2
host receives a Membership Report for a group address that it intends to join, the host will
suppress its own Membership Report for the same group, and if the PE does not receive an
IGMP Membership Report from the host, it will not forward multicast data to it. In other
words, an IGMPv2 Membership Report
MUST NOT
multicast router. This message suppression is a requirement for IGMPv2 hosts. This is not a
problem for hosts running IGMPv3, because there is no suppression of IGMP Membership
Reports.

 be sent on an AC that does not lead to a CE

[RFC4541]

4.1.2.  IGMP/MLD Leave Group Advertisement in BGP

When a PE wants to withdraw an EVPN SMET route corresponding to an IGMPv2 Leave Group or
IGMPv3 "Leave" equivalent message, it follows the rules below. The ﬁrst rule deﬁnes the
procedure at the originator PE, and the last two rules talk about procedures at the remote PE:

Processing at the BGP route originator:

1.

When a PE receives an IGMPv2 Leave Group or its "Leave" equivalent message for IGMPv3
from its attached host, it checks to see if this host is the last host that is interested in this
multicast group by sending a query for the multicast group. If the host was indeed the last one
(i.e., no responses are received for the query), then the PE
 re-advertise the EVPN SMET
route with the corresponding version ﬂag reset. If this is the last version ﬂag to be reset, then
instead of re-advertising the EVPN route with all version ﬂags reset, the PE
EVPN route for that (*,G).

 withdraw the

MUST

MUST

Processing at the BGP route receiver:

1.

When a PE receives an EVPN SMET route for a given (*,G), it compares the received version
ﬂags from the route with its per-PE stored version ﬂags. If the PE ﬁnds that a version ﬂag
associated with the (*,G) for the remote PE is reset, then the PE
that (*,G) toward its local interface (if any), which is attached to the multicast router for that
multicast group. It should be noted that the received EVPN route
version ﬂag set. If all version ﬂags are reset, it is an error because the PE should have received
an EVPN route withdraw for the last version ﬂag. An error
 be considered as a BGP error,
and the PE

 apply the "treat-as-withdraw" procedure per

 generate IGMP Leave for

 have at least one

[RFC7606]

MUST

MUST

MUST

MUST

.

2.

When a PE receives an EVPN SMET route withdraw, it removes the remote PE from its OIF list
for that multicast group, and if there are no more OIF entries for that multicast group (either
locally or remotely), then the PE

 stop responding to Membership Queries from the

MUST

Sajassi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9251

IGMP and MLD Proxies for EVPN

June 2022

locally attached router (if any). If there is a source for that multicast group, the PE stops
sending multicast traﬃc for that source.

4.2.  Proxy Querier

As mentioned in the previous sections, each PE
following reasons:

MUST

 have proxy querier functionality for the

1.

to enable the collection of EVPN PEs providing Layer 2 Virtual Private Network (L2VPN)
service to act as a distributed multicast router with an anycast IP address for all attached
hosts in that subnet

2.

to enable suppression of IGMP Membership Reports and Membership Queries over MPLS/IP
core

5.  Operation

Consider the EVPN network in Figure 1, where there is an EVPN instance conﬁgured across the PEs
(namely PE1, PE2, and PE3). Let's consider that this EVPN instance consists of a single bridge
domain (single subnet) with all the hosts and sources and the multicast router connected to this
subnet. PE1 only has hosts (host denoted by Hx) connected to it. PE2 has a mix of hosts and a
multicast source. PE3 has a mix of hosts, a multicast source (source denoted by Sx), and a
multicast router (router denoted by Rx). Furthermore, let's consider that for (S1,G1), R1 is used as
the multicast router. The following subsections describe the IGMP Proxy operation in diﬀerent
PEs with regard to whether the locally attached devices for that subnet are:

•

only hosts,

•

a mix of hosts and a multicast source, or

•

a mix of hosts, a multicast source, and a multicast router.

                      +--------------+
                      |              |
                      |              |
               +----+ |              | +----+
H1:(*,G1)v2 ---|    | |              | |    |---- H6(*,G1)v2
H2:(*,G1)v2 ---| PE1| |   IP/MPLS    | | PE2|---- H7(S2,G2)v3
H3:(*,G1)v3 ---|    | |   Network    | |    |---- S2
H4:(S2,G2)v3 --|    | |              | |    |
               +----+ |              | +----+
                      |              |
               +----+ |              |
H5:(S1,G1)v3 --|    | |              |
         S1 ---| PE3| |              |
         R1 ---|    | |              |
               +----+ |              |
                      |              |
                      +--------------+

Figure 1: EVPN Network

Sajassi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9251

IGMP and MLD Proxies for EVPN

June 2022

5.1.  PE with Only Attached Hosts for a Given Subnet

When PE1 receives an IGMPv2 Membership Report from H1, it does not forward this Membership
Report to any of its other ports (for this subnet) because all these local ports are associated with
the hosts. PE1 sends an EVPN SMET route corresponding to this Membership Report for (*,G1) and
sets the v2 ﬂag. This EVPN route is received by PE2 and PE3, which are the members of the same
BD (i.e., same EVI in case of a VLAN-based service or EVI and VLAN in case of a VLAN-aware
bundle service). PE3 reconstructs the IGMPv2 Membership Report from this EVPN BGP route and
only sends it to the port(s) with multicast routers attached to it (for that subnet). In this example,
PE3 sends the reconstructed IGMPv2 Membership Report for (*,G1) only to R1. Furthermore, even
though PE2 receives the EVPN BGP route, it does not send it to any of its ports for that subnet (viz.,
ports associated with H6 and H7).

When PE1 receives the second IGMPv2 Membership Report from H2 for the same multicast group
(*,G1), it only adds that port to its OIF list, but it doesn't send any EVPN BGP routes because there is
no change in information. However, when it receives the IGMPv3 Membership Report from H3
for the same (*,G1), besides adding the corresponding port to its OIF list, it re-advertises the
previously sent EVPN SMET route with the v3 and exclude ﬂag set.

Finally, when PE1 receives the IGMPv3 Membership Report from H4 for (S2,G2), it advertises a
new EVPN SMET route corresponding to it.

5.2.  PE with a Mix of Attached Hosts and a Multicast Source

The main diﬀerence in this case is that when PE2 receives the IGMPv3 Membership Report from
H7 for (S2,G2), it advertises it in BGP to support the source moving, even though PE2 knows that S2
is attached to its local AC. PE2 adds the port associated with H7 to its OIF list for (S2,G2). The
processing for IGMPv2 received from H6 is the same as the IGMPv2 Membership Report described
in the previous section.

5.3.  PE with a Mix of Attached Hosts, a Multicast Source, and a Router

The main diﬀerence in this case relative to the previous two sections is that IGMPv2/v3
Membership Report messages received locally need to be sent to the port associated with router
R1. Furthermore, the Membership Reports received via BGP (SMET) need to be passed to the R1
port but ﬁltered for all other ports.

6.  All-Active Multihoming

Because the Link Aggregation Group (LAG) ﬂow hashing algorithm used by the CE is unknown at
the PE, in an All-Active redundancy mode, it must be assumed that the CE can send a given IGMP
message to any one of the multihomed PEs, either Designated Forwarder (DF) or non-DF, i.e.,
diﬀerent IGMP Membership Request messages can arrive at diﬀerent PEs in the redundancy
group. Furthermore, their corresponding Leave messages can arrive at PEs that are diﬀerent from
the ones that received the Membership Report. Therefore, all PEs attached to a given Ethernet
segment (ES) must coordinate the IGMP Membership Request and Leave Group (x,G) state, where

Sajassi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9251

IGMP and MLD Proxies for EVPN

June 2022

x may be either "*" or a particular source S for each BD on that ES. Each PE has a local copy of that
state, and the EVPN signaling serves to synchronize that state across PEs. This allows the DF for
that (ES,BD) to correctly advertise or withdraw a SMET route for that (x,G) group in that BD when
needed. All-Active multihoming PEs for a given ES
procedures described in this section if they need to perform IGMP Proxy for hosts connected to
that ES.

 support IGMP synchronization

MUST

6.1.  Local IGMP/MLD Membership Report Synchronization

When a PE, either DF or non-DF, receives an IGMP Membership Report for (x,G) on a given
multihomed ES operating in All-Active redundancy mode, it determines the BD to which the IGMP
Membership Report belongs. If the PE doesn't already have the local IGMP Membership Request
(x,G) state for that BD on that ES, it
 instantiate that local IGMP Membership Request (x,G)
state and
IGMP Membership Request (x,G) state refers to the IGMP Membership Request (x,G) state that is
created as a result of processing an IGMP Membership Report for (x,G).

 advertise a BGP IGMP Membership Report Synch route for that (ES,BD). The local

MUST

MUST

The IGMP Membership Report Synch route
on which the IGMP Membership Report was received. Thus, it
attached to that ES and not any other PEs.

MUST

 carry the ES-Import Route Target (RT) for the ES

MUST

 only be imported by the PEs

When a PE, either DF or non-DF, receives an IGMP Membership Report Synch route, it installs that
route, and if it doesn't already have the IGMP Membership Request (x,G) state for that (ES,BD), it
 instantiate that IGMP Membership Request (x,G) state, i.e., the IGMP Membership Request
MUST
(x,G) state is the union of the local IGMP Membership Report (x,G) state and the installed IGMP
Membership Report Synch route. If the DF did not already advertise (originate) a SMET route for
that (x,G) group in that BD, it

 do so now.

MUST

When a PE, either DF or non-DF, deletes its local IGMP Membership Request (x,G) state for that
(ES,BD), it

 withdraw its BGP IGMP Membership Report Synch route for that (ES,BD).

MUST

MUST

When a PE, either DF or non-DF, receives the withdrawal of an IGMP Membership Report Synch
route from another PE, it
Request (x,G) state and it has no installed IGMP Membership Report Synch routes, it
remove that IGMP Membership Request (x,G) state for that (ES,BD). If the DF no longer has the
IGMP Membership Request (x,G) state for that BD on any ES for which it is the DF, it
withdraw its SMET route for that (x,G) group in that BD.

 remove that route. When a PE has no local IGMP Membership

MUST

MUST

In other words, a PE advertises a SMET route for that (x,G) group in that BD when it has the IGMP
Membership Request (x,G) state on at least one ES for which it is the DF, and it withdraws that
SMET route when it does not have an IGMP Membership Request (x,G) state in that BD on any ES
for which it is the DF.

Sajassi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9251

IGMP and MLD Proxies for EVPN

June 2022

6.2.  Local IGMP/MLD Leave Group Synchronization

When a PE, either DF or non-DF, receives an IGMP Leave Group message for (x,G) from the
attached CE on a given multihomed ES operating in All-Active redundancy mode, it determines
the BD to which the IGMPv2 Leave Group belongs. Regardless of whether it has the IGMP
Membership Request (x,G) state for that (ES,BD), it initiates the (x,G) leave group synchronization
procedure, which consists of the following steps:

1.

It computes the Maximum Response Time, which is the duration of the (x,G) leave group
synchronization procedure. This is the product of two locally conﬁgured values, Last Member
), plus a
Query Count and Last Member Query Interval (described in
delta corresponding to the time it takes for a BGP advertisement to propagate between the
PEs attached to the multihomed ES (delta is a consistently conﬁgured value on all PEs
attached to the multihomed ES).

Section 3 of [RFC2236]

2.

It starts the Maximum Response Time timer. Note that the receipt of subsequent IGMP Leave
Group messages or BGP Leave Synch routes for (x,G) do not change the value of a currently
running Maximum Response Time timer and are ignored by the PE.

3.

It initiates the Last Member Query procedure described in
a number of Group-Speciﬁc Query (x,G) messages (Last Member Query Count) at a ﬁxed
interval (Last Member Query Interval) to the attached CE.

Section 3 of [RFC2236]

; viz., it sends

4.

It advertises an IGMP Leave Synch route for that (ES,BD). This route notiﬁes the other
multihomed PEs attached to the given multihomed ES that it has initiated an (x,G) leave
group synchronization procedure, i.e., it carries the ES-Import RT for the ES on which the
IGMP Leave Group was received. It also contains the Maximum Response Time.

5.

When the Maximum Response Time timer expires, the PE that has advertised the IGMP Leave
Synch route withdraws it.

6.2.1.  Remote Leave Group Synchronization

When a PE, either DF or non-DF, receives an IGMP Leave Synch route, it installs that route and it
starts a timer for (x,G) on the speciﬁed (ES,BD), whose value is set to the Maximum Response
Time in the received IGMP Leave Synch route. Note that the receipt of subsequent IGMPv2 Leave
Group messages or BGP Leave Synch routes for (x,G) do not change the value of a currently
running Maximum Response Time timer and are ignored by the PE.

6.2.2.  Common Leave Group Synchronization

If a PE attached to the multihomed ES receives an IGMP Membership Report for (x,G) before the
Maximum Response Time timer expires, it advertises a BGP IGMP Membership Report Synch
route for that (ES,BD). If it doesn't already have the local IGMP Membership Request (x,G) state
for that (ES,BD), it instantiates that local IGMP Membership Request (x,G) state. If the DF is not
currently advertising (originating) a SMET route for that (x,G) group in that BD, it does so now.

Sajassi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9251

IGMP and MLD Proxies for EVPN

June 2022

If a PE attached to the multihomed ES receives an IGMP Membership Report Synch route for (x,G)
before the Maximum Response Time timer expires, it installs that route, and if it doesn't already
have the IGMP Membership Request (x,G) state for that BD on that ES, it instantiates that IGMP
Membership Request (x,G) state. If the DF has not already advertised (originated) a SMET route
for that (x,G) group in that BD, it does so now.

When the Maximum Response Time timer expires, a PE that has advertised an IGMP Leave Synch
route withdraws it. Any PE attached to the multihomed ES, which started the Maximum Response
Time and has no local IGMP Membership Request (x,G) state and no installed IGMP Membership
Report Synch routes, removes the IGMP Membership Request (x,G) state for that (ES,BD). If the DF
no longer has the IGMP Membership Request (x,G) state for that BD on any ES for which it is the
DF, it withdraws its SMET route for that (x,G) group in that BD.

6.3.  Mass Withdraw of the Multicast Membership Report Synch Route in
Case of Failure

A PE that has received an IGMP Membership Request would have synced the IGMP Membership
Report by the procedure deﬁned in Section 6.1. If a PE with the local Membership Report state
goes down or the PE to CE link goes down, it would lead to a mass withdraw of multicast routes.
Remote PEs (PEs where these routes were remote IGMP Membership Reports)
remove the state immediately; instead, General Query
There are several ways to detect failure at a peer, e.g., using IGP next-hop tracking or ES route
withdraw.

 be generated to refresh the states.

SHOULD NOT

SHOULD

7.  Single-Active Multihoming

Note that to facilitate state synchronization after failover, the PEs attached to a multihomed ES
operating in Single-Active redundancy mode
SHOULD
Report (x,G) state. In this case, all IGMP Membership Report messages are received by the DF and
distributed to the non-DF PEs using the procedures described above.

 also coordinate the IGMP Membership

8.  Selective Multicast Procedures for IR Tunnels

If an ingress PE uses ingress replication, then for a given (x,G) group in a given BD:

1.

It sends (x,G) traﬃc to the set of PEs not supporting IGMP or MLD Proxies. This set consists of
any PE that has advertised an Inclusive Multicast Ethernet Tag (IMET) route for the BD
without a Multicast Flags Extended Community or with a Multicast Flags Extended
Community in which neither the IGMP Proxy support nor the MLD Proxy support ﬂags are
set.

2.

It sends (x,G) traﬃc to the set of PEs supporting IGMP or MLD Proxies and has listeners for
that (x,G) group in that BD. This set consists of any PE that has advertised an IMET route for
the BD with a Multicast Flags Extended Community in which the IGMP Proxy support and/or
the MLD Proxy support ﬂags are set and that has advertised a SMET route for that (x,G) group
in that BD.

Sajassi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9251

IGMP and MLD Proxies for EVPN

June 2022

9.  BGP Encoding

This document deﬁnes three new BGP EVPN routes to carry IGMP Membership Reports. The route
types are known as:

6 -

Selective Multicast Ethernet Tag Route

7 -

Multicast Membership Report Synch Route

8 -

Multicast Leave Synch Route

The detailed encoding and procedures for these route types are described in subsequent sections.

9.1.  Selective Multicast Ethernet Tag Route

A SMET route-type-speciﬁc EVPN NLRI consists of the following:

+---------------------------------------+
|  RD (8 octets)                        |
+---------------------------------------+
|  Ethernet Tag ID (4 octets)           |
+---------------------------------------+
|  Multicast Source Length (1 octet)    |
+---------------------------------------+
|  Multicast Source Address (variable)  |
+---------------------------------------+
|  Multicast Group Length (1 octet)     |
+---------------------------------------+
|  Multicast Group Address (Variable)   |
+---------------------------------------+
|  Originator Router Length (1 octet)   |
+---------------------------------------+
|  Originator Router Address (variable) |
+---------------------------------------+
|  Flags (1 octet)                      |
+---------------------------------------+

For the purpose of BGP route key processing, all the ﬁelds are considered to be part of the preﬁx in
the NLRI, except for the 1-octet Flags ﬁeld. The Flags ﬁelds are deﬁned as follows:

  0  1  2  3  4  5  6  7
+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+
| reserved  |IE|v3|v2|v1|
+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+
•

The least signiﬁcant bit (bit 7) indicates support for IGMP version 1. Since IGMPv1 is being
deprecated, the sender

 set it to 0 for IGMP and the receiver

 ignore it.

MUST

MUST

•

The second least signiﬁcant bit (bit 6) indicates support for IGMP version 2.

•

The third least signiﬁcant bit (bit 5) indicates support for IGMP version 3.

Sajassi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9251

IGMP and MLD Proxies for EVPN

June 2022

•

The fourth least signiﬁcant bit (bit 4) indicates whether the (S,G) information carried within
the route type is of an Include Group type (bit value 0) or an Exclude Group type (bit value 1).
 be ignored if bit 5 is not set.
The Exclude Group type bit

MUST

•

This EVPN route type is used to carry tenant IGMP multicast group information. The Flags
ﬁeld assists in distributing the IGMP Membership Report of a given host for a given multicast
route. The version bits help associate the IGMP version of receivers participating within the
EVPN domain.

•

The IE bit helps in creating ﬁlters for a given multicast route.

•

If the route is used for IPv6 (MLD), then bit 7 indicates support for MLD version 1. The second
least signiﬁcant bit (bit 6) indicates support for MLD version 2. Since there is no MLD version
3, in case of IPv6 routes, the third least signiﬁcant bit
fourth least signiﬁcant bit

 be 0. In case of IPv6 routes, the

 be ignored if bit 6 is not set.

MUST

MUST

•

Reserved bits

MUST

 be set to 0 by the sender, and the receiver

MUST

 ignore the Reserved bits.

9.1.1.  Constructing the Selective Multicast Ethernet Tag Route

This section describes the procedures used to construct the SMET route.

The Route Distinguisher (RD)
 be a Type 1 RD
address of the PE (typically, the loopback address), followed by a number unique to the PE.

. The value ﬁeld comprises an IP

[RFC4364]

SHOULD

The Ethernet Tag ID

MUST

 be set, as per the procedure deﬁned in

[RFC7432]

.

MUST

 be set to the length of the Multicast Source Address in bits. If

The Multicast Source Length
the Multicast Source Address ﬁeld contains an IPv4 address, then the value of the Multicast
Source Length ﬁeld is 32. If the Multicast Source Address ﬁeld contains an IPv6 address, then the
value of the Multicast Source Length ﬁeld is 128. In case of a (*,G) Membership Report, the
Multicast Source Length is set to 0.

The Multicast Source Address is the source IP address from the IGMP Membership Report. In case
of a (*,G) Membership Report, this ﬁeld is not used.

The Multicast Group Length
Multicast Group Address ﬁeld contains an IPv4 address, then the value of the Multicast Group
Length ﬁeld is 32. If the Multicast Group Address ﬁeld contains an IPv6 address, then the value of
the Multicast Group Length ﬁeld is 128.

 be set to the length of the Multicast Group Address in bits. If the

MUST

The Multicast Group Address is the group address from the IGMP or MLD Membership Report.

The Originator Router Length is the length of the Originator Router Address in bits.

The Originator Router Address is the IP address of the router originating this route. The SMET
Originator Router IP address
originated for the same EVI by the same downstream PE.

 match that of the IMET (or S-PMSI Authentic Data (AD)) route

MUST

The Flags ﬁeld indicates the version of IGMP from which the Membership Report was received. It
also indicates whether the multicast group had the Include/Exclude bit set.

Sajassi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9251

IGMP and MLD Proxies for EVPN

June 2022

Reserved bits

MUST

 be set to 0. They can be deﬁned by other documents in the future.

IGMP is used to receive group membership information from hosts by Top-of-the-Rack (ToR)
switches. Upon receiving the host's expression of interest in a particular group membership, this
information is then forwarded using the SMET route. The NLRI also keeps track of the receiver's
IGMP version and any source ﬁltering for a given group membership. All EVPN SMET routes are
announced per EVI Route Target extended communities (EVI-RT ECs).

9.1.2.  Reconstructing IGMP/MLD Membership Reports from the Selective Multicast Route

This section describes the procedures used to reconstruct IGMP/MLD Membership Reports from
the SMET route.

•

If the Multicast Group Length is 32, the route is translated to the IGMP Membership Request. If
the Multicast Group Length is 128, the route is translated to an MLD Membership Request.

•

The Multicast Group Address ﬁeld is translated to the IGMP/MLD group address.

•

If the Multicast Source Length is set to 0, it is translated to any source (*). If the Multicast
Source Length is non-zero, the Multicast Source Address ﬁeld is translated to the IGMP/MLD
source address.

•

If ﬂag bit 7 is set, it translates the Membership Report to be IGMPv1 or MLDv1.

•

If ﬂag bit 6 is set, it translates the Membership Report to be IGMPv2 or MLDv2.

•

Flag bit 5 is only valid for the IGMP Membership Report; if it is set, it translates to the IGMPv3
report.

•

If the IE ﬂag is set, it translates to the IGMP/MLD Exclude mode Membership Report. If the IE
ﬂag is not set (0), it translates to the Include mode Membership Report.

9.1.3.  Default Selective Multicast Route

If there is a multicast router connected behind the EVPN domain, the PE
SMET (*,*) to get all multicast traﬃc in the domain.

MAY

 originate a default

Sajassi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9251

IGMP and MLD Proxies for EVPN

June 2022

                       +--------------+
                       |              |
                       |              |
                       |              | +----+
                       |              | |    |---- H1(*,G1)v2
                       |   IP/MPLS    | | PE1|---- H2(S2,G2)v3
                       |   Network    | |    |---- S2
                       |              | |    |
                       |              | +----+
                       |              |
                +----+ |              |
+----+          |    | |              |
|    |    S1 ---| PE2| |              |
|PIM |----R1 ---|    | |              |
|ASM |          +----+ |              |
|    |                 |              |
+----+                 +--------------+
Figure 2: Multicast Router behind the EVPN Domain

Consider the EVPN network in Figure 2, where there is an EVPN instance conﬁgured across the
PEs. Let's consider that PE2 is connected to multicast router R1 and there is a network running
PIM ASM behind R1. If there are receivers behind the PIM ASM network, the PIM Join would be
forwarded to the PIM Rendezvous Point (RP). If receivers behind the PIM ASM network are
interested in a multicast ﬂow originated by multicast source S2 (behind PE1), it is necessary for
PE2 to receive multicast traﬃc. In this case, PE2
the multicast traﬃc in the EVPN domain. To generate wildcard (*,*) routes, the procedure from
[RFC6625] MUST

 originate a (*,*) SMET route to receive all of

 be used.

MUST

9.2.  Multicast Membership Report Synch Route

This EVPN route type is used to coordinate the IGMP Membership Report (x,G) state for a given
BD between the PEs attached to a given ES operating in All-Active (or Single-Active) redundancy
mode, and it consists of the following:

Sajassi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9251

IGMP and MLD Proxies for EVPN

June 2022

+--------------------------------------------------+
|  RD (8 octets)                                   |
+--------------------------------------------------+
|  Ethernet Segment Identifier (10 octets)         |
+--------------------------------------------------+
|  Ethernet Tag ID  (4 octets)                     |
+--------------------------------------------------+
|  Multicast Source Length (1 octet)               |
+--------------------------------------------------+
|  Multicast Source Address (variable)             |
+--------------------------------------------------+
|  Multicast Group Length (1 octet)                |
+--------------------------------------------------+
|  Multicast Group Address (Variable)              |
+--------------------------------------------------+
|  Originator Router Length (1 octet)              |
+--------------------------------------------------+
|  Originator Router Address (variable)            |
+--------------------------------------------------+
|  Flags (1 octet)                                 |
+--------------------------------------------------+

For the purpose of BGP route key processing, all the ﬁelds are considered to be part of the preﬁx in
the NLRI, except for the 1-octet Flags ﬁeld, whose ﬁelds are deﬁned as follows:

  0  1  2  3  4  5  6  7
+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+
| reserved  |IE|v3|v2|v1|
+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+
•

The least signiﬁcant bit (bit 7) indicates support for IGMP version 1.

•

The second least signiﬁcant bit (bit 6) indicates support for IGMP version 2.

•

The third least signiﬁcant bit (bit 5) indicates support for IGMP version 3.

•

The fourth least signiﬁcant bit (bit 4) indicates whether the (S, G) information carried within
the route type is of an Include Group type (bit value 0) or an Exclude Group type (bit value 1).
 be ignored if bit 5 is not set.
The Exclude Group type bit

MUST

•

Reserved bits

MUST

 be set to 0.

The Flags ﬁeld assists in distributing the IGMP Membership Report of a given host for a given
multicast route. The version bits help associate the IGMP version of receivers participating within
the EVPN domain. The Include/Exclude bit helps in creating ﬁlters for a given multicast route.

If the route is being prepared for IPv6 (MLD), then bit 7 indicates support for MLD version 1. The
second least signiﬁcant bit (bit 6) indicates support for MLD version 2. Since there is no MLD
version 3, in case of the IPv6 route, the third least signiﬁcant bit
 be 0. In case of the IPv6
route, the fourth least signiﬁcant bit

MUST
 be ignored if bit 6 is not set.

MUST

Sajassi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9251

IGMP and MLD Proxies for EVPN

June 2022

9.2.1.  Constructing the Multicast Membership Report Synch Route

This section describes the procedures used to construct the IGMP Membership Report Synch
route. Support for these route types is optional. If a PE does not support this route, then it
NOT
EVIs corresponding to its multihomed ESs.

MUST
 indicate that it supports "IGMP Proxy" in the Multicast Flags Extended Community for the

An IGMP Membership Report Synch route
extended community, i.e., the one that corresponds to the ES on which the IGMP Membership
Report was received. It
EVI on which the IGMP Membership Report was received. See Section 9.5 for details on how to
encode and construct the EVI-RT EC.

 carry exactly one ES-Import Route Target

 also carry exactly one EVI-RT EC, i.e., the one that corresponds to the

MUST

MUST

SHOULD

The RD
[RFC4364]
the loopback address), followed by a number unique to the PE.

 be Type 1

. The value ﬁeld comprises an IP address of the PE (typically,

The Ethernet Segment Identiﬁer (ESI)

MUST

 be set to the 10-octet value deﬁned for the ES.

The Ethernet Tag ID

MUST

 be set, as per the procedure deﬁned in

[RFC7432]

.

MUST

 be set to the length of the Multicast Source Address in bits. If

The Multicast Source Length
the Multicast Source ﬁeld contains an IPv4 address, then the value of the Multicast Source Length
ﬁeld is 32. If the Multicast Source ﬁeld contains an IPv6 address, then the value of the Multicast
Source Length ﬁeld is 128. In case of a (*,G) Membership Report, the Multicast Source Length is set
to 0.

The Multicast Source is the source IP address of the IGMP Membership Report. In case of a (*,G)
Membership Report, this ﬁeld does not exist.

The Multicast Group Length
 be set to the length of the Multicast Group Address in bits. If the
Multicast Group ﬁeld contains an IPv4 address, then the value of the Multicast Group Length ﬁeld
is 32. If the Multicast Group ﬁeld contains an IPv6 address, then the value of the Multicast Group
Length ﬁeld is 128.

MUST

The Multicast Group is the group address of the IGMP Membership Report.

The Originator Router Length is the length of the Originator Router Address in bits.

The Originator Router Address is the IP address of the router originating the preﬁx.

The Flags ﬁeld indicates the version of IGMP from which the Membership Report was received. It
also indicates whether the multicast group had the Include/Exclude bit set.

Reserved bits

MUST

 be set to 0.

Sajassi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9251

IGMP and MLD Proxies for EVPN

June 2022

9.2.2.  Reconstructing IGMP/MLD Membership Reports from a Multicast Membership
Report Synch Route

This section describes the procedures used to reconstruct IGMP/MLD Membership Reports from
the Multicast Membership Report Synch route.

•

If the Multicast Group Length is 32, the route is translated to the IGMP Membership Request. If
the Multicast Group Length is 128, the route is translated to an MLD Membership Request.

•

The Multicast Group Address ﬁeld is translated to the IGMP/MLD group address.

•

If the Multicast Source Length is set to 0, it is translated to any source (*). If the Multicast
Source Length is non-zero, the Multicast Source Address ﬁeld is translated to the IGMP/MLD
source address.

•

If ﬂag bit 7 is set, it translates the Membership Report to be IGMPv1 or MLDv1.

•

If ﬂag bit 6 is set, it translates the Membership Report to be IGMPv2 or MLDv2.

•

Flag bit 5 is only valid for the IGMP Membership Report; if it is set, it translates to the IGMPv3
report.

•

If the IE ﬂag is set, it translates to the IGMP/MLD Exclude mode Membership Report. If the IE
ﬂag is not set (0), it translates to the Include mode Membership Report.

9.3.  Multicast Leave Synch Route

This EVPN route type is used to coordinate the IGMP Leave Group (x,G) state for a given BD
between the PEs attached to a given ES operating in an All-Active (or Single-Active) redundancy
mode, and it consists of the following:

Sajassi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9251

IGMP and MLD Proxies for EVPN

June 2022

+--------------------------------------------------+
|  RD (8 octets)                                   |
+--------------------------------------------------+
|  Ethernet Segment Identifier (10 octets)         |
+--------------------------------------------------+
|  Ethernet Tag ID  (4 octets)                     |
+--------------------------------------------------+
|  Multicast Source Length (1 octet)               |
+--------------------------------------------------+
|  Multicast Source Address (variable)             |
+--------------------------------------------------+
|  Multicast Group Length (1 octet)                |
+--------------------------------------------------+
|  Multicast Group Address (Variable)              |
+--------------------------------------------------+
|  Originator Router Length (1 octet)              |
+--------------------------------------------------+
|  Originator Router Address (variable)            |
+--------------------------------------------------+
|  Reserved (4 octets)                             |
+--------------------------------------------------+
|  Maximum Response Time (1 octet)                 |
+--------------------------------------------------+
|  Flags (1 octet)                                 |
+--------------------------------------------------+

For the purpose of BGP route key processing, all the ﬁelds are considered to be part of the preﬁx in
the NLRI, except for the Reserved, Maximum Response Time, and 1-octet Flags ﬁelds, which are
deﬁned as follows:

  0  1  2  3  4  5  6  7
+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+
| reserved  |IE|v3|v2|v1|
+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+
•

The least signiﬁcant bit (bit 7) indicates support for IGMP version 1.

•

The second least signiﬁcant bit (bit 6) indicates support for IGMP version 2.

•

The third least signiﬁcant bit (bit 5) indicates support for IGMP version 3.

•

The fourth least signiﬁcant bit (bit 4) indicates whether the (S, G) information carried within
the route type is of an Include Group type (bit value 0) or an Exclude Group type (bit value 1).
 be ignored if bit 5 is not set.
The Exclude Group type bit

MUST

•

Reserved bits

MUST

 be set to 0. They can be deﬁned by other documents in the future.

The Flags ﬁeld assists in distributing the IGMP Membership Report of a given host for a given
multicast route. The version bits help associate the IGMP version of the receivers participating
within the EVPN domain. The Include/Exclude bit helps in creating ﬁlters for a given multicast
route.

If the route is being prepared for IPv6 (MLD), then bit 7 indicates support for MLD version 1. The
second least signiﬁcant bit (bit 6) indicates support for MLD version 2. Since there is no MLD
version 3, in case of the IPv6 route, the third least signiﬁcant bit
 be 0. In case of the IPv6
route, the fourth least signiﬁcant bit

MUST
 be ignored if bit 6 is not set.

MUST

Sajassi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9251

IGMP and MLD Proxies for EVPN

June 2022

Reserved bits in the ﬂag

MUST

 be set to 0. They can be deﬁned by other documents in the future.

9.3.1.  Constructing the Multicast Leave Synch Route

This section describes the procedures used to construct the IGMP Leave Synch route. Support for
 indicate that it
these route types is optional. If a PE does not support this route, then it
supports "IGMP Proxy" in the Multicast Flags Extended Community for the EVIs corresponding to
its multihomed Ethernet segments.

MUST NOT

An IGMP Leave Synch route
community, i.e., the one that corresponds to the ES on which the IGMP Leave was received. It
MUST
Leave was received. See Section 9.5 for details on how to form the EVI-RT EC.

 also carry exactly one EVI-RT EC, i.e., the one that corresponds to the EVI on which the IGMP

 carry exactly one ES-Import Route Target extended

MUST

SHOULD

The RD
[RFC4364]
the loopback address), followed by a number unique to the PE.

 be Type 1

. The value ﬁeld comprises an IP address of the PE (typically,

The ESI

MUST

 be set to the 10-octet value deﬁned for the ES.

The Ethernet Tag ID

MUST

 be set, as per the procedure deﬁned in

[RFC7432]

.

MUST

 be set to the length of the Multicast Source Address in bits. If

The Multicast Source Length
the Multicast Source ﬁeld contains an IPv4 address, then the value of the Multicast Source Length
ﬁeld is 32. If the Multicast Source ﬁeld contains an IPv6 address, then the value of the Multicast
Source Length ﬁeld is 128. In case of a (*,G) Membership Report, the Multicast Source Length is set
to 0.

The Multicast Source is the source IP address of the IGMP Membership Report. In case of a (*,G)
Membership Report, this ﬁeld does not exist.

The Multicast Group Length
 be set to the length of the Multicast Group Address in bits. If the
Multicast Group ﬁeld contains an IPv4 address, then the value of the Multicast Group Length ﬁeld
is 32. If the Multicast Group ﬁeld contains an IPv6 address, then the value of the Multicast Group
Length ﬁeld is 128.

MUST

The Multicast Group is the group address of the IGMP Membership Report.

The Originator Router Length is the length of the Originator Router Address in bits.

The Originator Router Address is the IP address of the router originating the preﬁx.

The Reserved ﬁeld is not part of the route key. The originator
 ignore it, and if it needs to be propagated, it
receiver

SHOULD

MUST

MUST

 set the Reserved ﬁeld to 0; the
 propagate it unchanged.

The Maximum Response Time is the value to be used while sending a query, as deﬁned in
[RFC2236]

.

The Flags ﬁeld indicates the version of IGMP from which the Membership Report was received. It
also indicates whether the multicast group had an Include/Exclude bit set.

Sajassi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9251

IGMP and MLD Proxies for EVPN

June 2022

9.3.2.  Reconstructing IGMP/MLD Leave from a Multicast Leave Synch Route

This section describes the procedures used to reconstruct IGMP/MLD Leave from the Multicast
Leave Synch route.

•

If the Multicast Group Length is 32, the route is translated to IGMP Leave. If the Multicast
Group Length is 128, the route is translated to MLD Leave.

•

The Multicast Group Address ﬁeld is translated to an IGMP/MLD group address.

•

If the Multicast Source Length is set to 0, it is translated to any source (*). If the Multicast
Source Length is non-zero, the Multicast Source Address ﬁeld is translated to the IGMP/MLD
source address.

•

If ﬂag bit 7 is set, it translates the Membership Report to be IGMPv1 or MLDv1.

•

If ﬂag bit 6 is set, it translates the Membership Report to be IGMPv2 or MLDv2.

•

Flag bit 5 is only valid for the IGMP Membership Report; if it is set, it translates to the IGMPv3
report.

•

If the IE ﬂag is set, it translates to the IGMP/MLD Exclude mode Leave. If the IE ﬂag is not set
(0), it translates to the Include mode Leave.

9.4.  Multicast Flags Extended Community

The Multicast Flags Extended Community is a new EVPN Extended Community. EVPN Extended
Communities are transitive extended communities with a Type Value of 0x06. IANA has assigned
0x09 to Multicast Flags Extended Community in the "EVPN Extended Community Sub-Types"
subregistry.

A PE that supports IGMP and/or the MLD Proxy on a given BD
community to the IMET route it advertises for that BD, and it
Proxy Support ﬂags to 1. Note that a PE compliant with
 will not advertise this extended
community, so its absence indicates that the advertising PE does not support either IGMP or MLD
Proxies.

 attach this extended
 set the IGMP and/or MLD

[RFC7432]

MUST

MUST

The advertisement of this extended community enables a more eﬃcient multicast tunnel setup
from the source PE specially for ingress replication, i.e., if an egress PE supports the IGMP Proxy
but doesn't have any interest in a given (x,G), it advertises its IGMP Proxy capability using this
extended community, but it does not advertise any SMET route for that (x,G). When the source PE
(ingress PE) receives such advertisements from the egress PE, it does not replicate the multicast
traﬃc to that egress PE; however, it does replicate the multicast traﬃc to the egress PEs that don't
advertise such capability, even if they don't have any interests in that (x,G).

A Multicast Flags Extended Community is encoded as an 8-octet value as follows:

Sajassi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9251

IGMP and MLD Proxies for EVPN

June 2022

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| Type=0x06     |Sub-Type=0x09  |     Flags (2 Octets)      |M|I|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                           Reserved=0                          |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

The low-order (least signiﬁcant) 2 bits are deﬁned as the "IGMP Proxy Support" and "MLD Proxy
Support" bits (see Section 12.3. The absence of this extended community also means that the PE
does not support the IGMP Proxy, where:

•

The Type is 0x06, as registered with IANA for EVPN Extended Communities.

•

The Sub-Type is 0x09.

•

Flags are 2-octet values.
◦

Bit 15 (shown as I) deﬁnes IGMP Proxy Support. The value of 1 for bit 15 means that the PE
supports the IGMP Proxy. The value of 0 for bit 15 means that the PE does not support the
IGMP Proxy.

◦

Bit 14 (shown as M) deﬁnes MLD Proxy Support. The value of 1 for bit 14 means that the PE
supports the MLD Proxy. The value of 0 for bit 14 means that the PE does not support the
MLD Proxy.

◦

Bits 0 to 13 are reserved for the future. The sender
ignore it.

MUST

 set it to 0, and the receiver

MUST

•

Reserved bits are set to 0. The sender

MUST

 set it to 0, and the receiver

MUST

 ignore it.

If a router does not support this speciﬁcation, it
Community in the BGP route. When a router receives a BGP update, if both M and I ﬂags are 0, the
router
extended community.

 treat this update as malformed. The receiver of such an update

 add the Multicast Flags Extended

 ignore the

MUST NOT

MUST

MUST

9.5.  EVI-RT Extended Community

In EVPN, every EVI is associated with one or more Route Targets. These RTs serve two functions:

1.

Distribution control: RTs control the distribution of the routes. If a route carries the RT
associated with a particular EVI, it will be distributed to all the PEs on which that EVI exists.

2.

EVI identiﬁcation: Once a route has been received by a particular PE, the RT is used to identify
the EVI to which it applies.

An IGMP Membership Report Synch or IGMP Leave Synch route is associated with a particular
combination of ES and EVI. These routes need to be distributed only to PEs that are attached to
the associated ES. Therefore, these routes carry the ES-Import RT for that ES.

Sajassi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9251

IGMP and MLD Proxies for EVPN

June 2022

Since an IGMP Membership Report Synch or IGMP Leave Synch route does not need to be
distributed to all the PEs on which the associated EVI exists, these routes cannot carry the RT
associated with that EVI. Therefore, when such a route arrives at a particular PE, the route's RTs
cannot be used to identify the EVI to which the route applies. Some other means of associating the
route with an EVI must be used.

This document speciﬁes four new ECs that can be used to identify the EVI with which a route is
associated but do not have any eﬀect on the distribution of the route. These new ECs are known as
"Type 0 EVI-RT EC", "Type 1 EVI-RT EC", "Type 2 EVI-RT EC", and "Type 3 EVI-RT EC".

1.

A Type 0 EVI-RT EC is an EVPN EC (type 6) of sub-type 0xA.

2.

A Type 1 EVI-RT EC is an EVPN EC (type 6) of sub-type 0xB.

3.

A Type 2 EVI-RT EC is an EVPN EC (type 6) of sub-type 0xC.

4.

A Type 3 EVI-RT EC is an EVPN EC (type 6) of sub-type 0xD

Each IGMP Membership Report Synch or IGMP Leave Synch route
EC. The EVI-RT EC carried by a particular route is constructed as follows. Each such route is the
result of having received an IGMP Membership Report or an IGMP Leave message from a
particular BD. The route is said to be associated with that BD. For each BD, there is a
corresponding RT that is used to ensure that routes "about" that BD are distributed to all PEs
attached to that BD. So suppose a given IGMP Membership Report Synch or Leave Synch route is
associated with a given BD, say BD1, and suppose that the corresponding RT for BD1 is RT1. Then:

 carry exactly one EVI-RT

MUST

•

If RT1 is a Transitive Two-Octet AS-speciﬁc EC, then the EVI-RT EC carried by the route is a
Type 0 EVI-RT EC. The value ﬁeld of the Type 0 EVI-RT EC is identical to the value ﬁeld of RT1.

•

If RT1 is a Transitive IPv4-Address-speciﬁc EC, then the EVI-RT EC carried by the route is a
Type 1 EVI-RT EC. The value ﬁeld of the Type 1 EVI-RT EC is identical to the value ﬁeld of RT1.

•

If RT1 is a Transitive Four-Octet AS-speciﬁc EC, then the EVI-RT EC carried by the route is a
Type 2 EVI-RT EC. The value ﬁeld of the Type 2 EVI-RT EC is identical to the value ﬁeld of RT1.

•

If RT1 is a Transitive IPv6-Address-speciﬁc EC, then the EVI-RT EC carried by the route is a
Type 3 EVI-RT EC. The value ﬁeld of the Type 3 EVI-RT EC is identical to the value ﬁeld of RT1.

An IGMP Membership Report Synch or Leave Synch route

MUST

 carry exactly one EVI-RT EC.

Suppose a PE receives a particular IGMP Membership Report Synch or IGMP Leave Synch route,
say R1, and suppose that R1 carries an ES-Import RT that is one of the PE's Import RTs. If R1 has no
EVI-RT EC or has more than one EVI-RT EC, the PE
per

 apply the "treat-as-withdraw" procedure

[RFC7606]

MUST

.

Note that an EVI-RT EC is not a Route Target extended community, is not visible to the RT
Constrain mechanism
BGP.

, and is not intended to inﬂuence the propagation of routes by

[RFC4684]

Sajassi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9251

IGMP and MLD Proxies for EVPN

June 2022

                     1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| Type=0x06     |  Sub-Type=n   |       RT associated with EVI  |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|             RT associated with the EVI  (cont.)               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
The value of "n" is 0x0A, 0x0B, 0x0C, or 0x0D, corresponding to EVI-RT types 0, 1, 2, or 3,
respectively.

9.6.  Rewriting of RT ECs and EVI-RT ECs by ASBRs

There are certain situations in which an ES is attached to a set of PEs that are not all in the same
AS, or not all operated by the same provider. In this situation, the RT that corresponds to a
particular EVI may be diﬀerent in each AS. If a route is propagated from AS1 to AS2, an ASBR at
the AS1/AS2 border may be conﬁgured with a policy that replaces the EVI RTs for AS1 with the
corresponding EVI RTs for AS2. This is known as RT-rewriting.

If an ASBR is conﬁgured to perform RT-rewriting of the EVI RTs in EVPN routes, it
conﬁgured to perform RT-rewriting of the corresponding EVI-RT extended communities in IGMP
Join Synch and IGMP Leave Synch Routes.

MUST

 be

9.7.  BGP Error Handling

If a received BGP update contains Flags not in accordance with the IGMP/MLD version-X
expectation, the PE

 apply the "treat-as-withdraw" procedure per

[RFC7606]

MUST

.

If a received BGP update is malformed such that BGP route keys cannot be extracted, then the
BGP update
procedure per

 be considered invalid. The receiving PE

 apply the "session reset"

[RFC7606]

MUST

MUST

.

10.  IGMP Version 1 Membership Report

This document does not provide any detail about IGMPv1 processing. Implementations are
expected to only use IGMPv2 and above for IPv4 and MLDv1 and above for IPv6. IGMPv1 routes
.
are considered invalid, and the PE
[RFC7606]

 apply the "treat-as-withdraw" procedure per

MUST

11.  Security Considerations

This document describes a means to eﬃciently operate IGMP and MLD on a subnet constructed
across multiple PODs or DCs via an EVPN solution. The security considerations for the operation
of the underlying EVPN and BGP substrates are described in
considerations are outlined in
provides a single broadcast domain so the same security considerations of IGMPv2
IGMPv3

. The EVPN and associated IGMP Proxy
,
[RFC2236]

, and speciﬁc multicast

, or MLDv2

[RFC3810]

[RFC2710]

[RFC6514]

[RFC6513]

[RFC3376]

[RFC7432]

, MLD

 apply.

 and

Sajassi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9251

IGMP and MLD Proxies for EVPN

June 2022

12.  IANA Considerations

12.1.  EVPN Extended Community Sub-Types Registration

IANA has allocated the following codepoints in the "EVPN Extended Community Sub-Types"
subregistry under the "Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) Extended Communities" registry.

Sub-Type Value Name

Reference

0x09

0x0A

0x0B

0x0C

0x0D

Multicast Flags Extended Community

RFC 9251

EVI-RT Type 0

EVI-RT Type 1

EVI-RT Type 2

EVI-RT Type 3

RFC 9251

RFC 9251

RFC 9251

RFC 9251

Table 1: EVPN Extended Community Sub-Types Subregistry Allocated
Codepoints

12.2.  EVPN Route Types Registration

IANA has allocated the following EVPN route types in the "EVPN Route Types" subregistry.

6 -

Selective Multicast Ethernet Tag Route

7 -

Multicast Membership Report Synch Route

8 -

Multicast Leave Synch Route

12.3.  Multicast Flags Extended Community Registry

IANA has created and now maintains a new subregistry called "Multicast Flags Extended
Community" under the "Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) Extended Communities" registry. The
registration procedure is First Come First Served
numbered 0-15, from high order to low order. The registry was initialized as follows:

. For the 16-bit Flags ﬁeld, the bits are

[RFC8126]

Bit

Name

Reference

Change Controller

0-13

Unassigned

14

15

MLD Proxy Support

RFC 9251

IETF

IGMP Proxy Support

RFC 9251

IETF

Table 2: Multicast Flags Extended Community

Sajassi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9251

IGMP and MLD Proxies for EVPN

June 2022

13.  References

13.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC2236]

[RFC2710]

[RFC3376]

[RFC3810]

[RFC4364]

[RFC4684]

[RFC6513]

[RFC6514]

[RFC6625]

[RFC7432]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
,
rfc2119>
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

Fenner, W. "Internet Group Management Protocol, Version 2" RFC 2236 DOI
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2236>
10.17487/RFC2236

, November 1997,

,

,

,

,
,
Deering, S. Fenner, W.
, October 1999,
for IPv6" RFC 2710 DOI 10.17487/RFC2710
.
editor.org/info/rfc2710>

, and

,

,

B. Haberman "Multicast Listener Discovery (MLD)

<https://www.rfc-

,

Cain, B. Deering, S. Kouvelas, I. Fenner, B.
,
Management Protocol, Version 3" RFC 3376 DOI 10.17487/RFC3376
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3376>

, and
,

,

,

,
A. Thyagarajan "Internet Group

, October 2002,

 and

Vida, R., Ed.
for IPv6" RFC 3810 DOI 10.17487/RFC3810
.
info/rfc3810>

L. Costa, Ed. "Multicast Listener Discovery Version 2 (MLDv2)
, June 2004,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

,

,

,

 and

Rosen, E.
,
4364 DOI 10.17487/RFC4364
.
rfc4364>

,

Y. Rekhter "BGP/MPLS IP Virtual Private Networks (VPNs)" RFC

,

, February 2006,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

,
Marques, P. Bonica, R. Fang, L. Martini, L. Raszuk, R. Patel, K.
"Constrained Route Distribution for Border Gateway Protocol/MultiProtocol
Label Switching (BGP/MPLS) Internet Protocol (IP) Virtual Private Networks
(VPNs)" RFC 4684 DOI 10.17487/RFC4684
.
editor.org/info/rfc4684>

, November 2006,

<https://www.rfc-

, and

,

,

,

,

,
J. Guichard

Rosen, E., Ed.
DOI 10.17487/RFC6513

,
R. Aggarwal, Ed. "Multicast in MPLS/BGP IP VPNs" RFC 6513
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6513>

, February 2012,

 and

,

,

,

, and
Aggarwal, R. Rosen, E. Morin, T.
,
for Multicast in MPLS/BGP IP VPNs" RFC 6514 DOI 10.17487/RFC6514
2012,

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6514>

,

,

Y. Rekhter "BGP Encodings and Procedures

, February

,

Rosen, E., Ed. Rekhter, Y., Ed. Hendrickx, W.
VPN Auto-Discovery Routes" RFC 6625 DOI 10.17487/RFC6625
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6625>

, and

,
,

R. Qiu "Wildcards in Multicast
<https://

, May 2012,

,

,

,

Sajassi, A., Ed. Aggarwal, R. Bitar, N. Isaac, A. Uttaro, J. Drake, J.
,
Henderickx "BGP MPLS-Based Ethernet VPN" RFC 7432 DOI 10.17487/RFC7432
February 2015,

,
,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7432>

, and

,
,

W.

,

,

,

Sajassi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 9251

IGMP and MLD Proxies for EVPN

June 2022

[RFC7606]

[RFC8174]

,

Chen, E., Ed. Scudder, J., Ed. Mohapatra, P.
for BGP UPDATE Messages" RFC 7606 DOI 10.17487/RFC7606
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7606>

, and

,
,

,

,

K. Patel "Revised Error Handling

, August 2015,

,
,
Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
.
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

13.2.  Informative References

[EVPN-BUM]

[RFC4541]

[RFC8126]

,

,

Zhang, Z. Lin, W. Rabadan, J. Patel, K.
Procedures" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-bess-evpn-bum-
procedure-updates-14
.
draft-ietf-bess-evpn-bum-procedure-updates-14>

, 18 November 2021,

A. Sajassi "Updates on EVPN BUM

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/

, and

,
,

,

,

,

Christensen, M. Kimball, K.
Management Protocol (IGMP) and Multicast Listener Discovery (MLD)
Snooping Switches" RFC 4541 DOI 10.17487/RFC4541
.
editor.org/info/rfc4541>

, May 2006,

, and

F. Solensky "Considerations for Internet Group

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

,

,
Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

, June

Acknowledgements

The authors would like to thank
Haas Krishna Muddenahally Ananthamurthy
valuable comments.

,

Stephane Litkowski Jorge Rabadan Anoop Ghanwani Jeﬀrey

,

,
,
Swadesh Agrawal

, and

 for their reviews and

Contributors

Derek Yeung
Arrcus
Email:

 derek@arrcus.com

Authors' Addresses

Ali Sajassi
Cisco Systems
821 Alder Drive
Milpitas CA 95035
,
United States of America
Email:

 sajassi@cisco.com

Sajassi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 9251

IGMP and MLD Proxies for EVPN

June 2022

Samir Thoria
Cisco Systems
821 Alder Drive
Milpitas CA 95035
,
United States of America
Email:

 sthoria@cisco.com

Mankamana Mishra
Cisco Systems
821 Alder Drive
Milpitas CA 95035
,
United States of America
Email:

 mankamis@cisco.com

Keyur Patel
Arrcus
United States of America
Email:

 keyur@arrcus.com

John Drake
Juniper Networks
Email:

 jdrake@juniper.net

Wen Lin
Juniper Networks
Email:

 wlin@juniper.net

Sajassi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 30

