Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9395
8221, 8247
Standards Track
April 2023
2070-1721
P. Wouters,
Aiven

 Ed.

RFC 9395
Deprecation of the Internet Key Exchange Version 1
(IKEv1) Protocol and Obsoleted Algorithms

Abstract

Internet Key Exchange Version 1 (IKEv1) has been deprecated, and RFCs 2407, 2408, and 2409
have been moved to Historic status. This document updates RFCs 8221 and 8247 to reflect the
usage guidelines of old algorithms that are associated with IKEv1 and are not specified or
commonly implemented for IKEv2. This document further updates the IANA registries for IKEv2
"Transform Type Values" by adding a "Status" column where the deprecation status can be listed.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9395
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Wouters

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9395

IKEv1 Deprecation

April 2023

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Requirements Language

3.  RFCs 2407, 2408, and 2409 Are Historic

4.  IKEv1 Feature Equivalents for IKEv2

4.1.  IKEv2 Post-Quantum Support

4.2.  IKEv2 Labeled IPsec Support

4.3.  IKEv2 Group SA and Multicast Support

5.  Deprecating Obsolete Algorithms

6.  Security Considerations

7.  IANA Considerations

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

8.2.  Informative References

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

[RFC2409]

 were obsoleted by IKEv2

 and its related documents for the

IKEv1 has been moved to Historic status. IKEv1
Internet Security Association and Key Management Protocol (ISAKMP)
[RFC2407]
the time of writing was published in 2014
ago, IKEv2 has now seen wide deployment, and it provides a full replacement for all IKEv1
functionality. No new modifications or new algorithms have been accepted for IKEv1 for at least
a decade. IKEv2 addresses various issues present in IKEv1, such as IKEv1 being vulnerable to
amplification attacks.

 in December 2005. The latest version of IKEv2 at
. Since IKEv2 replaced IKEv1 over 15 years

 and IPsec DOI

[RFC4306]

[RFC7296]

[RFC2408]

Algorithm implementation requirements and usage guidelines for IKEv2
Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP) and Authentication Header (AH)
 gives guidance
to implementors but limits that guidance to avoid broken or weak algorithms. These two RFCs do
not deprecate algorithms that have aged and are not in use. Instead, they leave these algorithms

[RFC8221]

[RFC8247]

 and

Wouters

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9395

IKEv1 Deprecation

April 2023

MAY

in a state of "
unmentioned algorithms that are no longer advised but for which there are no known attacks
resulting in their earlier deprecation.

 be used" by not mentioning them. This document deprecates those

2.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  RFCs 2407, 2408, and 2409 Are Historic

As IKEv1 is deprecated, systems running IKEv1 should be upgraded and reconfigured to run
IKEv2. Systems that support IKEv1 but not IKEv2 are most likely also unsuitable candidates for
continued operation for the following reasons:

•

IKEv1 development ceased over a decade ago, and no new work will happen. This poses the
risk of unmaintained code in an otherwise supported product, which can result in security
vulnerabilities.

•

A number of IKEv1 systems have reached their End of Life and, therefore, will never be
patched by the vendor if a vulnerability is found.

•

There are vendors that still provide updates for their equipment that supports IKEv1 and
IKEv2 but have "frozen" their IKEv1 implementation. Such users might not be aware that
they are running unmaintained code with its associated security risks.

•

IKEv1 systems can be abused for packet amplification attacks, as documented in the Security
Bulletin

[CVE-2016-5361]

.

•

Great strides have been made in cryptography since IKEv1 development ceased. While some
modern cryptographic algorithms were added to IKEv1, interoperability concerns mean that
the defacto algorithms negotiated by IKEv1 will consist of dated or deprecated algorithms,
like AES-CBC, SHA1, and Diffie-Hellman groups 1 or 2. IKEv2 provides a state-of-the-art suite
of cryptographic algorithms that IKEv1 lacks.

IKEv2 is a more secure protocol than IKEv1. For example, IKEv2 offers more modern
cryptographic primitives, proper defense against denial-of-service attacks, improved
authentication via Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP) methods, and password-
authenticated key exchange (PAKE) support. Also, IKEv2 is actively worked on with respect to
defending against quantum-computer attacks.

IKEv1-only systems should be upgraded or replaced by systems supporting IKEv2. IKEv2
implementations
SHOULD NOT
cryptographic algorithms used.

 directly import IKEv1 configurations without updating the

Wouters

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9395

IKEv1 Deprecation

April 2023

4.  IKEv1 Feature Equivalents for IKEv2

A few notable IKEv1 features are not present in the IKEv2 core specification
available for IKEv2 via an additional specification.

[RFC7296]

 but are

4.1.  IKEv2 Post-Quantum Support

IKEv1 and its way of using Preshared Keys (PSKs) protects against quantum-computer-based
attacks. IKEv2 updated its use of PSKs to improve the error reporting but at the expense of post-
quantum security. If post-quantum security is required, these systems should be migrated to use
IKEv2 Post-quantum Preshared Keys (PPKs)

[RFC8784]
.

4.2.  IKEv2 Labeled IPsec Support

Some IKEv1 implementations support Labeled IPsec, a method to negotiate an additional
Security Context selector to the Security Policy Database (SPD), but this method was never
standardized in IKEv1. Those IKEv1 systems that require Labeled IPsec should migrate to an
IKEv2 system supporting Labeled IPsec as specified in

[LABELED-IPSEC]
.

4.3.  IKEv2 Group SA and Multicast Support

The Group Domain of Interpretation (GDOI) protocol
the support for Multicast Group SAs. For IKEv2, this work is currently in progress via

[RFC6407]

, which is based on IKEv1, defines

[G-IKEV2]
.

5.  Deprecating Obsolete Algorithms

This document deprecates the following algorithms:

•

Encryption Algorithms: RC5, IDEA, CAST, Blowfish, and the unspecified 3IDEA,
ENCR_DES_IV64, and ENCR_DES_IV32

•

PRF Algorithms: the unspecified PRF_HMAC_TIGER

•

Integrity Algorithms: HMAC-MD5-128

•

Diffie-Hellman groups: none

6.  Security Considerations

There are only security benefits if IKEv1 is deprecated and IKEv2 is used.

The deprecated algorithms have long been in disuse and are no longer actively deployed or
researched; this presents an unknown security risk that is best avoided. Additionally, these
algorithms not being supported in implementations simplifies those implementations and
reduces the accidental use of deprecated algorithms through misconfiguration or downgrade
attacks.

Wouters

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9395

IKEv1 Deprecation

April 2023

7.  IANA Considerations

IANA has added the following line at the top of the Notes section of the "Internet Key Exchange
(IKE) Attributes" and '"Magic Numbers" for ISAKMP Protocol' registries: "All registries listed
below have been closed. See RFC 9395." In addition, this document has been added to the
"Reference" column in these two registries, and their registration procedures have been changed
to "Registry closed".

IANA has added a "Status" column to the following IKEv2 "Transform Type Values" registries:

Transform Type 1 - Encryption Algorithm Transform IDs

Transform Type 2 - Pseudorandom Function Transform IDs

Transform Type 3 - Integrity Algorithm Transform IDs

Transform Type 4 - Key Exchange Method Transform IDs

Also, the following entries have been marked as DEPRECATED:

Number Name

Status

1

2

4

5

6

7

8

9

ENCR_DES_IV64

DEPRECATED (RFC 9395)

ENCR_DES

DEPRECATED

[RFC8247]

ENCR_RC5

DEPRECATED (RFC 9395)

ENCR_IDEA

DEPRECATED (RFC 9395)

ENCR_CAST

DEPRECATED (RFC 9395)

ENCR_BLOWFISH DEPRECATED (RFC 9395)

ENCR_3IDEA

DEPRECATED (RFC 9395)

ENCR_DES_IV32

DEPRECATED (RFC 9395)

Table 1: Transform Type 1 - Encryption Algorithm Transform
IDs

Number Name

Status

1

3

PRF_HMAC_MD5

DEPRECATED

[RFC8247]

PRF_HMAC_TIGER

DEPRECATED (RFC 9395)

Table 2: Transform Type 2 - Pseudorandom Function
Transform IDs

Wouters

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9395

IKEv1 Deprecation

April 2023

Number Name

Status

1

3

4

6

7

AUTH_HMAC_MD5_96

DEPRECATED

[RFC8247]

AUTH_DES_MAC

DEPRECATED

[RFC8247]

AUTH_KPDK_MD5

DEPRECATED

[RFC8247]

AUTH_HMAC_MD5_128

DEPRECATED (RFC 9395)

AUTH_HMAC_SHA1_160

DEPRECATED (RFC 9395)

Table 3: Transform Type 3 - Integrity Algorithm Transform IDs

Number Name

1

22

768-bit MODP Group

1024-bit MODP Group with 160-bit Prime Order
Subgroup

Status

DEPRECATED
[RFC8247]

DEPRECATED
[RFC8247]

Table 4: Transform Type 4 - Key Exchange Method Transform IDs

All entries not mentioned here should receive no value in the new Status field.

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8247]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

,

Nir, Y. Kivinen, T. Wouters, P.
D. Migault "Algorithm Implementation
Requirements and Usage Guidance for the Internet Key Exchange Protocol
Version 2 (IKEv2)" RFC 8247 DOI 10.17487/RFC8247
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8247>

, September 2017,

, and

,

,

.

,

<https://

8.2.  Informative References

[CVE-2016-5361]

NIST National Vulnerability Database "CVE-2016-5361 Detail"

,

, 16 June 2016,

<https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2016-5361>

.

Wouters

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9395

IKEv1 Deprecation

April 2023

[G-IKEV2]

 and

B. Weis "Group Key Management using IKEv2" Work in

Smyslov, V.
Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-ipsecme-g-ikev2-09
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-ipsecme-g-ikev2-09>

, 19 April 2023,

,

,

,

.

<https://

[LABELED-IPSEC]

Wouters, P.

S. Prasad "Labeled IPsec Traffic Selector support for IKEv2"

,

,

Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-ipsecme-labeled-ipsec-11
2023,

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-ipsecme-labeled-ipsec-11>

, 10 April

.

 and
,

[RFC2407]

[RFC2408]

[RFC2409]

[RFC4306]

[RFC6407]

[RFC7296]

[RFC8221]

[RFC8784]

,

Piper, D. "The Internet IP Security Domain of Interpretation for ISAKMP" RFC
2407 DOI 10.17487/RFC2407
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
,
rfc2407>

, November 1998,

,

.

,

Maughan, D. Schertler, M. Schneider, M.
Association and Key Management Protocol (ISAKMP)" RFC 2408 DOI 10.17487/
RFC2408

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2408>

J. Turner "Internet Security

, November 1998,

, and

,

,

,

,

.

Harkins, D.
10.17487/RFC2409

 and

D. Carrel "The Internet Key Exchange (IKE)" RFC 2409 DOI

,

,

,

, November 1998,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2409>

.

Kaufman, C., Ed. "Internet Key Exchange (IKEv2) Protocol" RFC 4306 DOI
,
10.17487/RFC4306

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4306>

, December 2005,

,

,

.

Weis, B. Rowles, S.
,
6407 DOI 10.17487/RFC6407
,
rfc6407>

, and

.

T. Hardjono "The Group Domain of Interpretation" RFC

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,
, October 2011,

,

Kaufman, C. Hoffman, P. Nir, Y. Eronen, P.
Exchange Protocol Version 2 (IKEv2)" STD 79 RFC 7296 DOI 10.17487/RFC7296
October 2014,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7296>
.

T. Kivinen "Internet Key

, and
,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Wouters, P. Migault, D. Mattsson, J. Nir, Y.
Algorithm Implementation Requirements and Usage Guidance for
Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP) and Authentication Header (AH)" RFC
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
8221 DOI 10.17487/RFC8221
,
rfc8221>

T. Kivinen "Cryptographic

, October 2017,

, and

,

,

,

.

,

Fluhrer, S. Kampanakis, P. McGrew, D.
in the Internet Key Exchange Protocol Version 2 (IKEv2) for Post-quantum
Security" RFC 8784 DOI 10.17487/RFC8784
editor.org/info/rfc8784>

<https://www.rfc-

, June 2020,

, and

V. Smyslov "Mixing Preshared Keys

,

,

,

,

.

Author's Address

editor
)

Paul Wouters (
Aiven
Email:

 paul.wouters@aiven.io

Wouters

Standards Track

Page 7

