Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9060
Standards Track
September 2021
2070-1721
J. Peterson
Neustar

RFC 9060
Secure Telephone Identity Revisited (STIR)
Certiﬁcate Delegation

Abstract

The Secure Telephone Identity Revisited (STIR) certiﬁcate proﬁle provides a way to attest
authority over telephone numbers and related identiﬁers for the purpose of preventing
telephone number spooﬁng. This speciﬁcation details how that authority can be delegated from a
parent certiﬁcate to a subordinate certiﬁcate. This supports a number of use cases, including
those where service providers grant credentials to enterprises or other customers capable of
signing calls with STIR.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9060

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Peterson

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9060

STIR Certiﬁcate Delegation

September 2021

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  Motivation

4.  Delegation of STIR Certiﬁcates

4.1.  Scope of Delegation

5.  Authentication Service Signing with Delegate Certiﬁcates

6.  Veriﬁcation Service Behavior for Delegate Certiﬁcate Signatures

7.  Acquiring Multiple Certiﬁcates in STIR

8.  Certiﬁcation Authorities and Service Providers

8.1.  ACME and Delegation

8.2.  Handling Multiple Certiﬁcates

9.  Alternative Solutions

10. IANA Considerations

11. Privacy Considerations

12. Security Considerations

13. References

13.1.  Normative References

13.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

STIR problem statement [RFC7340]

The
are enabled by impersonation, including various forms of robocalling, voicemail hacking, and
swatting
impersonation is the implementation of credentials that identify the parties who control

. One of the most important components of a system to prevent

 reviews the diﬃculties facing the telephone network that

[RFC7375]

Peterson

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9060

STIR Certiﬁcate Delegation

September 2021

telephone numbers. The STIR certiﬁcate speciﬁcation
based on version 3 certiﬁcates
credentials can then be used by STIR authentication services
[RFC3261]
[RFC8225]

 in accordance with

 carried in SIP

 requests.

[X.509]

[RFC8226]

 describes a credential system

[RFC5280]

 for that purpose. Those

[RFC8224]

 to sign PASSporT objects

 speciﬁes an extension to X.509 that deﬁnes a Telephony Number (TN) Authorization

[RFC8226]
List that may be included by certiﬁcation authorities (CAs) in certiﬁcates. This extension provides
additional information that relying parties can use when validating transactions with the
certiﬁcate. When a SIP request, for example, arrives at a terminating administrative domain, the
calling number attested by the SIP request can be compared to the TN Authorization List of the
certiﬁcate that signed the PASSporT to determine if the caller is authorized to use that calling
number.

[RFC8226]

 has focused on the use of Service Provider Codes (SPCs) to attest

Initial deployment of
to the scope of authority of a certiﬁcate. Typically, these codes are internal telephone network
identiﬁers such as the Operating Company Numbers (OCNs) assigned to carriers in the United
States. However, these network identiﬁers are eﬀectively unavailable to non-carrier entities, and
this has raised questions about how such entities might best participate in STIR when needed.
Additionally, a carrier may sometimes operate numbers that are formally assigned to another
 gives an overview of a certiﬁcate enrollment model based on "delegation",
carrier.
whereby the holder of a certiﬁcate might allocate a subset of that certiﬁcate's authority to
another party. This speciﬁcation details how delegation of authority works for STIR certiﬁcates.

[RFC8226]

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

This speciﬁcation also uses the following terms:

delegation:

The concept of STIR certiﬁcate delegation and its terms are deﬁned in

[RFC8226]

.

legitimate spooﬁng:

The practice of selecting an alternative presentation number for a

telephone caller legitimately.

3.  Motivation

The most pressing need for delegation in STIR arises in a set of use cases where callers want to
use a particular calling number, but for whatever reason, their outbound calls will not pass
through the authentication service of the service provider that controls that numbering resource.

Peterson

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9060

STIR Certiﬁcate Delegation

September 2021

One example would be an enterprise that places outbound calls through a set of service
providers; for each call, a provider is chosen based on a least-cost routing algorithm or similar
local policy. The enterprise was assigned a calling number by a particular service provider, but
some calls originating from that number will go out through other service providers.

A user might also roam from their usual service provider to a diﬀerent network or
administrative domain for various reasons. Most "legitimate spooﬁng" examples are of this form,
where a user wants to be able to use the main callback number for their business as a calling
party number, even when the user is away from the business.

These sorts of use cases could be addressed if the carrier who controls the numbering resource
were able to delegate a credential that could be used to sign calls regardless of which network or
administrative domain handles the outbound routing for the call. In the absence of something
like a delegation mechanism, outbound carriers may be forced to sign calls with credentials that
do not cover the originating number in question. Unfortunately, that practice would be diﬃcult
to distinguish from malicious spooﬁng, and if it becomes widespread, it could erode trust in STIR
overall.

4.  Delegation of STIR Certiﬁcates

STIR delegate certiﬁcates are certiﬁcates containing a TNAuthList object that have been signed
with the private key of a parent certiﬁcate that itself contains a TNAuthList object (either by
value or by reference; see Section 4.1). The parent certiﬁcate needs to contain a basic constraints
[RFC5280]
extension with the cA boolean set to "true"
, indicating that the subject can sign
certiﬁcates. Every STIR delegate certiﬁcate identiﬁes its parent certiﬁcate with a standard
.
Authority Key Identiﬁer extension

[RFC5280]

[RFC5280]

 are not directly applicable to STIR. In a manner similar to the

The authority bestowed on the holder of the delegate certiﬁcate by the parent certiﬁcate is
recorded in the delegate certiﬁcate's TNAuthList. Because STIR certiﬁcates use the TNAuthList
object rather than the Subject Name for indicating the scope of their authority, traditional name
constraints
 "encompassing" semantics, each delegate certiﬁcate
Public Key Infrastructure (RPKI) [RFC6480]
 have a TNAuthList scope that is equal to or a subset of its parent certiﬁcate's scope: it must
MUST
be "encompassed". For example, a parent certiﬁcate with a TNAuthList that attested authority for
the numbering range +1-212-555-1000 through 1999 could issue a certiﬁcate to one delegate
attesting authority for the range +1-212-555-1500 through 1599 and, to another delegate, a
certiﬁcate for the individual number +1-212-555-1824.

Resource

MAY

 also contain a basic constraints extension with the cA boolean set to
Delegate certiﬁcates
"true", indicating that they can sign subordinate certiﬁcates for further delegates. As only end-
entity certiﬁcates can actually sign PASSporTs, the holder of a STIR certiﬁcate with a "true" cA
boolean may create a separate end-entity certiﬁcate with either an identical TNAuthList to its
parent or a subset of the parent's authority, which would be used to sign PASSporTs.

Peterson

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9060

STIR Certiﬁcate Delegation

September 2021

4.1.  Scope of Delegation

The TNAuthList of a STIR certiﬁcate may contain one or more SPCs, one or more telephone
number ranges, or even a mix of SPCs and telephone number ranges. When delegating from a
STIR certiﬁcate, a child certiﬁcate may inherit from its parent either or both of the above, and
this speciﬁcation explicitly permits SPC-only parent certiﬁcates to delegate individual telephone
numbers or ranges to a child certiﬁcate, as this will be necessary in some operating
environments. Depending on the sort of numbering resources that a delegate has been assigned,
various syntaxes can be used to capture the delegated resource.

Some non-carrier entities may be assigned large and complex allocations of telephone numbers,
which may be only partially contiguous or entirely disparate. Allocations may also change
frequently in minor or signiﬁcant ways. These resources may be so complex, dynamic, or
extensive that listing them in a certiﬁcate is prohibitively diﬃcult.
describes one potential way to address this: including the TNAuthList (speciﬁed in
the certiﬁcate by reference rather than by value, where a URL in the certiﬁcate points to a
secure, dynamically updated list of the telephone numbers in the scope of authority of a
certiﬁcate. For entities that are carriers in all but name, another alternative is the allocation of
an SPC; this yields much the same property, as the SPC is eﬀectively a pointer to an external
database that dynamically tracks the numbers associated with the SPC. Either of these
approaches may make sense for a given deployment. Certiﬁcation path construction as detailed
below treats by-reference TNAuthLists in a certiﬁcate as if they had been included by value.

Section 10.1 of [RFC8226]
[RFC8226]

) in

Other non-carrier entities may have straightforward telephone number assignments, such as
enterprises receiving a set of a thousand blocks from a carrier that may be kept for years or
decades. Particular freephone numbers may also have a long-term association with an enterprise
and its brand. For these sorts of assignments, assigning an SPC may seem like overkill, and using
the TN ranges of the TNAuthList (by value) is suﬃcient.

Whichever approach is taken to represent the delegated resource, there are fundamental trade-
oﬀs regarding when and where in the architecture a delegation is validated -- that is, when the
delegated TNAuthList is checked and determined to be "encompassed" by the TNAuthList of its
parent. This might be performed at the time the delegate certiﬁcate is issued, at the time that a
veriﬁcation service receives an inbound call, or potentially both. It is generally desirable to
oﬄoad as much of this as possible to the certiﬁcation process as veriﬁcation occurs during call
setup; thus, additional network dips could lead to perceptible delay, whereas certiﬁcation
happens outside of call processing as a largely administrative function. Ideally, if a delegate
certiﬁcate can supply a by-value TN range, then a veriﬁcation service could ascertain that an
attested calling party number is within the scope of the provided certiﬁcate without requiring
any additional transactions with a service. In practice, veriﬁcation services may already
incorporate network queries into their processing (for example, to dereference the "x5u" ﬁeld of
a PASSporT) that could piggyback any additional information needed by the veriﬁcation service.

Note that the permission semantics of the TNAuthList
a certiﬁcate is the superset of all of the SPCs and telephone number ranges enumerated in the
TNAuthList. As SPCs themselves are eﬀectively pointers to a set of telephone number ranges, and

 are additive: that is, the scope of

[RFC8226]

Peterson

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9060

STIR Certiﬁcate Delegation

September 2021

a telephone number may belong to more than one SPC, this may introduce some redundancy to
the set of telephone numbers speciﬁed as the scope of a certiﬁcate. The presence of one or more
SPCs and one or more sets of telephone number ranges are similarly treated additively, even if
the telephone number ranges turn out to be redundant to the scope of an SPC.

5.  Authentication Service Signing with Delegate Certiﬁcates

Authentication service behavior varies from
performed by the authentication service when comparing the calling party number attested in
call signaling with the scope of the authority of the signing certiﬁcate. Authentication services
 use a delegate certiﬁcate without validating that its scope of authority is
SHOULD NOT
encompassed by that of its parent certiﬁcate, and if that certiﬁcate has its own parent, the entire
certiﬁcation path

 as follows, although the same checks are

 be validated.

[RFC8224]

SHOULD

This delegation architecture does not require that a non-carrier entity act as its own
authentication service. That function may be performed by any authentication service that holds
the private key corresponding to the delegate certiﬁcate, including one run by an outbound
service provider, a third party in an enterprise's outbound call path, or in the SIP User Agent
itself.

Note that authentication services creating a PASSporT for a call signed with a delegate certiﬁcate
 provide an "x5u" link corresponding to the entire certiﬁcation path rather than just the
MUST
delegate certiﬁcate used to sign the call, as described in Section 7.

6.  Veriﬁcation Service Behavior for Delegate Certiﬁcate
Signatures

The responsibility of a veriﬁcation service validating PASSporTs signed with delegate certiﬁcates,
while largely following baseline speciﬁcations
additional procedures. When the veriﬁcation service dereferences the "x5u" parameter, it will
acquire a certiﬁcate list rather than a single certiﬁcate. It
credentials in the list, identifying the parent certiﬁcate for each delegate through its Authority
Key Identiﬁer extension.

 then validate all of the

, requires some

[RFC8225]

[RFC8224]

MUST

 and

While relying parties ordinarily have signiﬁcant latitude in certiﬁcation path construction when
validating a certiﬁcation path, STIR assumes a more rigid hierarchical subordination model
rather than one where relying parties may want to derive their own certiﬁcation path to
particular trust anchors. If the certiﬁcates acquired from the "x5u" element of a PASSporT do not
lead to an anchor that the veriﬁcation service trusts, it treats the validation no diﬀerently than it
would when a non-delegated certiﬁcate was issued by an untrusted root; in SIP, it
437 "Unsupported Credential" response if the call should be failed for lack of a valid Identity
header.

 return a

MAY

Peterson

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9060

STIR Certiﬁcate Delegation

September 2021

7.  Acquiring Multiple Certiﬁcates in STIR

PASSporT [RFC8225]
acquire the certiﬁcate used to sign a PASSporT. This value is mirrored by the "info" parameter of
the Identity header when a PASSporT is conveyed via SIP. Commonly, this is an HTTPS URI.

 uses the "x5u" element to convey the URL where veriﬁcation services can

When a STIR delegate certiﬁcate is used to sign a PASSporT, the "x5u" element in the PASSporT
will contain a URI indicating where a certiﬁcate list is available. While the baseline JSON Web
Signature (JWS) also supports an "x5c" element speciﬁcally for certiﬁcate chains, in operational
practice, certiﬁcation paths are already being delivered in the STIR environment via the "x5u"
element, so this speciﬁcation RECOMMENDS that implementations continue to use "x5u". "x5c" is
 for environments where it is known to be supported. That list will be a concatenation
OPTIONAL
of certiﬁcates encoded with Privacy Enhanced Mail (PEM) of the type "application/pem-
 be ordered
certiﬁcate-chain" deﬁned in
from the signer to the trust anchor. The list begins with the certiﬁcate used to sign the PASSporT,
followed by its parent, and then any subsequent grandparents, great-grandparents, and so on.
The key identiﬁer in the Authority Key Identiﬁer extension in the ﬁrst certiﬁcate
MUST
the Subject Key Identiﬁer extension in the second certiﬁcate. The key identiﬁer pairing
match in this way throughout the entire chain of certiﬁcates. Note that
Management Environment (ACME) [RFC8555]
chain to be an end-entity certiﬁcate.

 appear in
MUST
Automatic Certiﬁcate
 requires the ﬁrst element in a pem-certiﬁcate-

certiﬁcate path [RFC5280]

[RFC8555]

 ordering

. The

MUST

8.  Certiﬁcation Authorities and Service Providers

Once a telephone service provider has received a CA certiﬁcate attesting to their numbering
resources, they may delegate resources from it as they see ﬁt. Note that the allocation to a service
provider of a certiﬁcate with a basic constraints extension with the cA boolean set to "true" does
not require that a service provider act as a certiﬁcation authority itself; serving as a certiﬁcation
authority is a function requiring specialized expertise and infrastructure. Certiﬁcation
authorities are, for example, responsible for maintaining certiﬁcate revocation lists and related
functions as well as publishing certiﬁcation practice statements. A third-party certiﬁcation
authority, including the same one that issued the service provider its parent certiﬁcate, could act
as the CA that issues delegate certiﬁcates for the service provider if the necessary business
relationships permit it. A service provider might in this case act as a Token Authority (see Section
8.1) granting its customers permissions to receive certiﬁcates from the CA.

Note that if the same CA that issued the parent certiﬁcate is also issuing a delegate certiﬁcate, it
may be possible to shorten the certiﬁcation path, which reduces the work required of
veriﬁcation services. The trade-oﬀ here is that if the CA simply issued a non-delegate certiﬁcate
(whose parent is the CA's trust anchor) with the proper TNAuthList value, relying parties might
not be able to ascertain which service provider owned those telephone numbers, information
that might be used to make an authorization decision on the terminating side. However, some

Peterson

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9060

STIR Certiﬁcate Delegation

September 2021

additional object in the certiﬁcate outside of the TNAuthList could preserve that information; this
is a potential area for future work, and longer certiﬁcation paths are the only mechanism
currently deﬁned.

All CAs must detail in their practices and policies a requirement to validate that the
"encompassing" of a delegate certiﬁcate is done by its parent. Note that this requires that CAs
have access to the necessary industry databases to ascertain whether, for example, a particular
telephone number is encompassed by an SPC. Alternatively, a CA may acquire an Authority
Token (see Section 8.1) that aﬃrms that a delegation is in the proper scope. Exactly what
operational practices this entails may vary in diﬀerent national telephone administrations and
are thus left to the

.
Certiﬁcate Policy / Certiﬁcation Practice Statement (CP/CPS) [RFC3647]

8.1.  ACME and Delegation

ACME [RFC8555]

STIR deployments commonly use
 for certiﬁcate acquisition, and it is anticipated
that delegate certiﬁcates will also be acquired through an ACME interface. An entity can acquire
a certiﬁcate from a particular CA by requesting an
parent with the desired
TNAuthList [ACME-TOKEN]
further subdelegation of its own, it should request a token with the "ca" Authority Token ﬂag set.

Authority Token [ACME-CHAL]
 object. Note that if the client intends to do

 from the

The entity then presents that Authority Token to a CA to acquire a STIR delegate certiﬁcate. ACME
returns an "application/pem-certiﬁcate-chain" object, and that object would be suitable for
publication as an HTTPS resource for retrieval with the PASSporT "x5u" mechanism as discussed
in Section 7. If the Certiﬁcate Signing Request (CSR) presented to the ACME server is for a
certiﬁcate with the cA boolean set to "true", then the ACME server makes a policy decision to
determine whether or not it is appropriate to issue that certiﬁcate to the requesting entity. That
policy decision will be reﬂected by the "ca" ﬂag in the Authority Token.

Service providers that want the capability to rapidly age out delegated certiﬁcates can rely on the
ACME Short-Term, Automatically Renewed (STAR)
 mechanism to automate the process
of short-term certiﬁcate expiry.

[RFC8739]

8.2.  Handling Multiple Certiﬁcates

In some deployments, non-carrier entities may receive telephone numbers from several diﬀerent
carriers. This could lead to enterprises needing to maintain a sort of STIR keyring, with diﬀerent
certiﬁcates delegated to them from diﬀerent providers. These certiﬁcates are potentially issued
by diﬀerent CAs, which enterprises choose between when signing a call. This could be the case
regardless of which syntax is used in the TNAuthList to represent the scope of the delegation (see
Section 4.1). As noted in Section 8, if the parent certs use the same CA, it may be possible to
shorten the certiﬁcation path.

For non-carrier entities handling a small number of certiﬁcates, this is probably not a signiﬁcant
burden. For cases where it becomes burdensome, a few potential approaches exist. A delegate
certiﬁcate could be cross-certiﬁed with another delegate certiﬁcate via an Authority Information
Access (AIA) ﬁeld containing the URL of a Certiﬁcate Authority Issuer so that a signer would only
need to sign with a single certiﬁcate to inherit the privileges of the other certiﬁcate(s) with which

Peterson

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9060

STIR Certiﬁcate Delegation

September 2021

it has cross-certiﬁed. In very complex delegation cases, it might make more sense to establish a
bridge CA that cross-certiﬁes with all of the certiﬁcates held by the enterprise rather than
requiring a mesh of cross-certiﬁcation between a large number of certiﬁcates. Again, this bridge
CA function would likely be performed by some existing CA in the STIR ecosystem. These
procedures would, however, complicate the fairly straightforward certiﬁcation path
reconstruction approach described in Section 7 and would require further speciﬁcation.

9.  Alternative Solutions

[RFC5280]

. Similar problems in the web PKI space motivated the

At the time this speciﬁcation was written, STIR was only starting to see deployment. In some
future environment, the policies that govern CAs may not permit them to issue intermediate
certiﬁcates with a TNAuthList object and a cA boolean set to "true" in the basic constraints
certiﬁcate extension
development of TLS subcerts
for a certiﬁcate for such environments. A comparable mechanism could be developed for the
STIR space, which would allow STIR certiﬁcates to sign a data object that contains eﬀectively the
same data as the delegate certiﬁcate speciﬁed here, including a public key that could sign
PASSporTs. The TLS subcerts system has further explored leveraging ACME to issue short-lived
certiﬁcates for temporary delegation as a means of obviating the need for revocation.
Speciﬁcation of a mechanism similar to TLS subcerts for STIR is future work and will be
undertaken only if the market requires it.

, which substitutes a signed "delegated credential" token

[TLS-CRED]

10.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

11.  Privacy Considerations

Any STIR certiﬁcate that identiﬁes a narrow range of telephone numbers potentially exposes
information about the entities that are placing calls. As such a telephone number range is a
necessary superset of the calling party number that is openly signaled during call setup, the
privacy risks associated with this mechanism are not substantially greater than baseline STIR.
See

 for guidance on the use of anonymization mechanisms in STIR.

[RFC8224]

12.  Security Considerations

This document is entirely about security. As delegation can allow signing-in scenarios where
unauthenticated "legitimate" spooﬁng would otherwise be used, the hope is that delegation will
improve the overall security of the STIR ecosystem. For further information on certiﬁcate
, particularly its security considerations. Also see the
security and practices, see
 for general guidance on the implications of the use of
security considerations of
certiﬁcates in STIR and

 for the STIR threat model.

[RFC5280]
[RFC8226]

[RFC7375]

Peterson

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9060

STIR Certiﬁcate Delegation

September 2021

Much of the security of delegation depends on the implementation of the encompassing
semantics described in Section 4. When delegating from an SPC-based TNAuthList to a set of
telephone number ranges, understanding the encompassing semantics may require access to
industry databases that track the numbering assets of service providers associated with a given
SPC. In some operating environments, such databases might not exist. How encompassing is
policed is therefore a matter outside the scope of this document and speciﬁc to operational
proﬁles of STIR.

The use of by-reference TNAuthLists as described in Section 4 means that the TNAuthList
associated with a certiﬁcate can change over time; see the security considerations of
for more on the implications of this property. It is considered a useful feature here due to the
potential dynamism of large lists of telephone numbers, but this dynamism means that a relying
party might at one point accept that a particular telephone number is associated with a
certiﬁcate but later reject it for the same certiﬁcate as the dynamic list changes. Also note that if
the HTTPS service housing the by-reference telephone number list is improperly secured, that
too can lead to vulnerabilities. Ultimately, the CA that issued a delegated certiﬁcate populates the
URL in the AIA ﬁeld and is responsible for making a secure selection. Service providers acting as
CAs are directed to the cautionary words about running a CA in Section 8 regarding the
obligations this entails for certiﬁcate revocation and so on.

[RFC3986]

13.  References

13.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC3986]

[RFC5280]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8224]

[RFC8225]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

, and
Berners-Lee, T. Fielding, R.
Generic Syntax" STD 66 RFC 3986 DOI 10.17487/RFC3986
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3986>

,

,

,

,

.

L. Masinter "Uniform Resource Identiﬁer (URI):

, January 2005,

,

,

Cooper, D. Santesson, S. Farrell, S. Boeyen, S. Housley, R.
"Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certiﬁcate and Certiﬁcate Revocation
List (CRL) Proﬁle" RFC 5280 DOI 10.17487/RFC5280
editor.org/info/rfc5280>

, May 2008,

<https://www.rfc-

W. Polk

, and

,

,

,

,

.

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

,

, and
Peterson, J. Jennings, C. Rescorla, E.
Management in the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)" RFC 8224 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8224

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8224>

C. Wendt "Authenticated Identity

, February 2018,

,

,

,

,

.

Wendt, C.
10.17487/RFC8225

J. Peterson "PASSporT: Personal Assertion Token" RFC 8225 DOI

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8225>

,
, February 2018,

 and

,

.

Peterson

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9060

STIR Certiﬁcate Delegation

September 2021

[RFC8226]

[RFC8555]

 and

Peterson, J.
RFC 8226 DOI 10.17487/RFC8226
,
info/rfc8226>

,

.

S. Turner "Secure Telephone Identity Credentials: Certiﬁcates"

,

, February 2018,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

,

J. Kasten "Automatic
Barnes, R. Hoﬀman-Andrews, J. McCarney, D.
Certiﬁcate Management Environment (ACME)" RFC 8555 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8555

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8555>

, March 2019,

, and
,

,

,

.

,

13.2.  Informative References

[ACME-CHAL]

[ACME-TOKEN]

[RFC3261]

[RFC3647]

[RFC6480]

[RFC7340]

[RFC7375]

[RFC8739]

[TLS-CRED]

,

,

, and
Peterson, J. Barnes, M. Hancock, D.
,
,
Authority Token" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-acme-authority-
token-06
authority-token-06>

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-acme-

C. Wendt "ACME Challenges Using an

, 12 July 2021,

.

,

,

Wendt, C. Hancock, D. Barnes, M.

J. Peterson "TNAuthList proﬁle of
,
ACME Authority Token" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-acme-
, 27 March 2021,
authority-token-tnauthlist-08
html/draft-ietf-acme-authority-token-tnauthlist-08>

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/

, and

,
,

.

,

,

Rosenberg, J. Schulzrinne, H. Camarillo, G. Johnston, A. Peterson, J. Sparks, R.
, and
Handley, M.
10.17487/RFC3261

,
,
E. Schooler "SIP: Session Initiation Protocol" RFC 3261 DOI
, June 2002,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3261>

,
.

,

,

,

,

,

,

,
Chokhani, S. Ford, W. Sabett, R. Merrill, C.
Key Infrastructure Certiﬁcate Policy and Certiﬁcation Practices Framework"
RFC 3647 DOI 10.17487/RFC3647
info/rfc3647>

S. Wu "Internet X.509 Public
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, November 2003,

, and

,

,

,

.

 and

Lepinski, M.
RFC 6480 DOI 10.17487/RFC6480
info/rfc6480>

,

,

.

S. Kent "An Infrastructure to Support Secure Internet Routing"

,

, February 2012,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

,

Peterson, J. Schulzrinne, H.
Problem Statement and Requirements" RFC 7340 DOI 10.17487/RFC7340
September 2014,

H. Tschofenig "Secure Telephone Identity
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7340>

, and

,

,

,

.

Peterson, J. "Secure Telephone Identity Threat Model" RFC 7375 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7375

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7375>

, October 2014,

,

,

,

,

,
T. Fossati
Sheﬀer, Y. Lopez, D. Gonzalez de Dios, O. Pastor Perales, A.
"Support for Short-Term, Automatically Renewed (STAR) Certiﬁcates in the
Automated Certiﬁcate Management Environment (ACME)" RFC 8739 DOI
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8739>
10.17487/RFC8739

, March 2020,

, and

,

,

,

,

Barnes, R. Iyengar, S. Sullivan, N.
,
TLS" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-tls-subcerts-10
2021,

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-tls-subcerts-10>

, and

E. Rescorla "Delegated Credentials for

, 24 January
.

,

,

,

Peterson

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9060

STIR Certiﬁcate Delegation

September 2021

[X.509]

,

ITU-T "Information technology - Open Systems Interconnection - The Directory:
Public-key and attribute certiﬁcate frameworks" ITU-T Recommendation X.509
,
October 2016,

<https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.509>

.

,

Acknowledgments

We would like to thank
Benjamin Kaduk

, and

Sean Turner

,
,
 for key input on this document.

,

Ines Robles Richard Barnes Chris Wendt Dave Hancock Russ Housley

,

,

Author's Address

Jon Peterson
Neustar, Inc.
Email:

 jon.peterson@team.neustar

Peterson

Standards Track

Page 12

