Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9729
Standards Track
February 2025
2070-1721
D. Schinazi
Google LLC

D. Oliver
Guardian Project

J. Hoyland
Cloudflare Inc.

RFC 9729
The Concealed HTTP Authentication Scheme

Abstract

Most HTTP authentication schemes are probeable in the sense that it is possible for an
unauthenticated client to probe whether an origin serves resources that require authentication.
It is possible for an origin to hide the fact that it requires authentication by not generating
Unauthorized status codes; however, that only works with non-cryptographic authentication
schemes: cryptographic signatures require a fresh nonce to be signed. Prior to this document,
there was no existing way for the origin to share such a nonce without exposing the fact that it
serves resources that require authentication. This document defines a new non-probeable
cryptographic authentication scheme.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9729
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Schinazi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9729

The Concealed HTTP Authentication Scheme

February 2025

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Conventions and Definitions

2.  The Concealed HTTP Authentication Scheme

3.  Client Handling

3.1.  Key Exporter Context

3.1.1.  Public Key Encoding

3.2.  Key Exporter Output

3.3.  Signature Computation

4.  Authentication Parameters

4.1.  The k Parameter

4.2.  The a Parameter

4.3.  The p Parameter

4.4.  The s Parameter

4.5.  The v Parameter

5.  Example

6.  Server Handling

6.1.  Frontend Handling

6.2.  Communication Between Frontend and Backend

6.3.  Backend Handling

6.4.  Non-Probeable Server Handling

7.  Requirements on TLS Usage

8.  Security Considerations

9.  IANA Considerations

9.1.  HTTP Authentication Schemes Registry

9.2.  TLS Keying Material Exporter Labels

9.3.  HTTP Field Name

3

3

4

4

4

6

6

6

7

8

8

8

8

8

8

9

9

9

10

11

11

12

12

12

13

13

Schinazi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9729

The Concealed HTTP Authentication Scheme

February 2025

10. References

10.1.  Normative References

10.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

13

13

14

15

15

Section 11 of [HTTP]

) allow origins to restrict access for some

HTTP authentication schemes (see
resources to only authenticated requests. While these schemes commonly involve a challenge
where the origin asks the client to provide authentication information, it is possible for clients to
send such information unprompted. This is particularly useful in cases where an origin wants to
offer a service or capability only to "those who know", while all others are given no indication
the service or capability exists. Such designs rely on an externally defined mechanism by which
keys are distributed. For example, a company might offer remote employee access to company
services directly via its website using their employee credentials or offer access to limited special
capabilities for specific employees while making discovering (or probing for) such capabilities
difficult. As another example, members of less well-defined communities might use more
ephemeral keys to acquire access to geography- or capability-specific resources, as issued by an
entity whose user base is larger than the available resources can support (by having that entity
metering the availability of keys temporally or geographically).

While digital-signature-based HTTP authentication schemes already exist (e.g.,
on the origin explicitly sending a fresh challenge to the client, to ensure that the signature input
is fresh. That makes the origin probeable as it sends the challenge to unauthenticated clients.
This document defines a new signature-based authentication scheme that is not probeable.

[HOBA]

), they rely

1.1.  Conventions and Definitions

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

This document uses the notation from

Section 1.3 of [QUIC]
.

Various examples in this document contain long lines that may be folded, as described in
[RFC8792]
.

Schinazi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9729

The Concealed HTTP Authentication Scheme

February 2025

2.  The Concealed HTTP Authentication Scheme

This document defines the "Concealed" HTTP authentication scheme. It uses asymmetric
cryptography. Clients possess a key ID and a public/private key pair, and origin servers maintain
a mapping of authorized key IDs to associated public keys.

). The signature and additional information are exchanged using authentication

The client uses a TLS keying material exporter to generate data to be signed (see Section 3) then
sends the signature using the Authorization (or Proxy-Authorization) header field (see
of [HTTP]
parameters (see Section 4). Once the server receives these, it can check whether the signature
validates against an entry in its database of known keys. The server can then use the validation
result to influence its response to the client, for example, by restricting access to certain
resources.

Section 11

3.  Client Handling

When a client wishes to use the Concealed HTTP authentication scheme with a request, it
compute the authentication proof using a TLS keying material exporter with the following
parameters:

SHALL

•

The label is set to "EXPORTER-HTTP-Concealed-Authentication".

•

The context is set to the structure described in Section 3.1.

•

The exporter output length is set to 48 bytes (see Section 3.2).

Note that TLS 1.3 keying material exporters are defined in
keying material exporters are defined in

[KEY-EXPORT]
.

Section 7.5 of [TLS]

, while TLS 1.2

3.1.  Key Exporter Context

The TLS key exporter context is described in Figure 1, using the notation from
[QUIC]
:

Section 1.3 of

Schinazi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9729

The Concealed HTTP Authentication Scheme

February 2025

  Signature Algorithm (16),
  Key ID Length (i),
  Key ID (..),
  Public Key Length (i),
  Public Key (..),
  Scheme Length (i),
  Scheme (..),
  Host Length (i),
  Host (..),
  Port (16),
  Realm Length (i),
  Realm (..),

Figure 1: Key Exporter Context Format

The key exporter context contains the following fields:

Signature Algorithm:

The signature scheme sent in the s Parameter (see Section 4.4).

Key ID:

The key ID sent in the k Parameter (see Section 4.1).

Public Key:

The public key used by the server to validate the signature provided by the client.

Its encoding is described in Section 3.1.1.

Scheme:

The scheme for this request, encoded using the format of the scheme portion of a URI

as defined in

Section 3.1 of [URI]
.

The host for this request, encoded using the format of the host portion of a URI as defined

Host:
in

Section 3.2.2 of [URI]
.

Port:

The port for this request, encoded in network byte order. Note that the port is either
Section 3.2.3 of [URI]
.

included in the URI or is the default port for the scheme in use; see

Realm:

The realm of authentication that is sent in the realm authentication parameter (see

). If the realm authentication parameter is not present, this

Section 11.5 of [HTTP]
 be
empty. This document does not define a means for the origin to communicate a realm to the
client. If a client is not configured to use a specific realm, it
 use an empty realm and
SHALL NOT

 send the realm authentication parameter.

SHALL

SHALL

The Signature Algorithm and Port fields are encoded as unsigned 16-bit integers in network byte
order. The Key ID, Public Key, Scheme, Host, and Realm fields are length-prefixed strings; they
are preceded by a Length field that represents their length in bytes. These length fields are
encoded using the variable-length integer encoding from
 be
encoded in the minimum number of bytes necessary.

Section 16 of [QUIC]

MUST

 and

Schinazi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9729

The Concealed HTTP Authentication Scheme

February 2025

3.1.1.  Public Key Encoding

Both the "Public Key" field of the TLS key exporter context (see above) and the a Parameter (see
Section 4.2) carry the same public key. The encoding of the public key is determined by the
signature algorithm in use as follows:

RSASSA-PSS algorithms:

The public key is an RSAPublicKey structure

[PKCS1]

 encoded in DER

[X.690]

. BER encodings that are not DER

MUST

 be rejected.

ECDSA algorithms:

The public key is an UncompressedPointRepresentation structure defined in

Section 4.2.8.2 of [TLS]

, using the curve specified by the SignatureScheme.

EdDSA algorithms:

The public key is the byte string encoding defined in

[EdDSA]
.

This document does not define the public key encodings for other algorithms. In order for a
SignatureScheme to be usable with the Concealed HTTP authentication scheme, its public key
encoding needs to be defined in a corresponding document.

3.2.  Key Exporter Output

The key exporter output is 48 bytes long. Of those, the first 32 bytes are part of the input to the
signature and the next 16 bytes are sent alongside the signature. This allows the recipient to
confirm that the exporter produces the right values. This is described in Figure 2, using the
notation from

Section 1.3 of [QUIC]
:

  Signature Input (256),
  Verification (128),

Figure 2: Key Exporter Output Format

The key exporter output contains the following fields:

Signature Input:

This is part of the data signed using the client's chosen asymmetric private key

(see Section 3.3).

Verification:
4.5).

The verification is transmitted to the server using the v Parameter (see Section

3.3.  Signature Computation

Once the Signature Input has been extracted from the key exporter output (see Section 3.2), it is
prefixed with static data before being signed. The signature is computed over the concatenation
of:

•

A string that consists of octet 32 (0x20) repeated 64 times

Schinazi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9729

The Concealed HTTP Authentication Scheme

February 2025

•

The context string "HTTP Concealed Authentication"

•

A single 0 byte that serves as a separator

•

The Signature Input extracted from the key exporter output (see Section 3.2)

For example, if the Signature Input has all its 32 bytes set to 01, the content covered by the
signature (in hexadecimal format) would be:

2020202020202020202020202020202020202020202020202020202020202020
2020202020202020202020202020202020202020202020202020202020202020
48545450205369676E61747572652041757468656E7469636174696F6E
00
0101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101

Figure 3: Example Content Covered by Signature

The purpose of this static prefix is to mitigate issues that could arise if authentication asymmetric
keys were accidentally reused across protocols (even though this is forbidden, see Section 8). This
construction mirrors that of the TLS 1.3 CertificateVerify message defined in
[TLS]
.

Section 4.4.3 of

The resulting signature is then transmitted to the server using the p Parameter (see Section 4.3).

4.  Authentication Parameters

This specification defines the following authentication parameters.

All of the byte sequences below are encoded using base64url (see
quotes and without padding. In other words, the values of these byte-sequence authentication
parameters
underscore.

 include any characters other than ASCII letters, digits, dash, and

Section 5 of [BASE64]

MUST NOT

) without

The integer below is encoded without a minus and without leading zeroes. In other words, the
value of this integer authentication parameter
digits and

 start with a zero unless the full value is "0".

 include any characters other than

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

Using the syntax from

[ABNF]
:

concealed-byte-sequence-param-value = *( ALPHA / DIGIT / "-" / "_" )
concealed-integer-param-value =  %x31-39 1*4( DIGIT ) / "0"

Figure 4: Authentication Parameter Value ABNF

Schinazi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9729

The Concealed HTTP Authentication Scheme

February 2025

4.1.  The k Parameter

REQUIRED

 "k" (key ID) Parameter is a byte sequence that identifies which key the client

The
wishes to use to authenticate. This is used by the backend to point to an entry in a server-side
database of known keys (see Section 6.3).

4.2.  The a Parameter

REQUIRED

The
 "a" (public key) Parameter is a byte sequence that specifies the public key used by
the server to validate the signature provided by the client. This avoids key confusion issues (see
[SEEMS-LEGIT]

). The encoding of the public key is described in Section 3.1.1.

4.3.  The p Parameter

REQUIRED

The
provides to attest to possessing the credential that matches its key ID.

 "p" (proof) Parameter is a byte sequence that specifies the proof that the client

4.4.  The s Parameter

REQUIRED

 "s" (signature scheme) Parameter is an integer that specifies the signature scheme

The
used to compute the proof transmitted in the p Parameter. Its value is an integer between 0 and
65535 inclusive from the IANA "TLS SignatureScheme" registry maintained at
www.iana.org/assignments/tls-parameters>
.

<https://

4.5.  The v Parameter

REQUIRED

 "v" (verification) Parameter is a byte sequence that specifies the verification that

The
the client provides to attest to possessing the key exporter output (see Section 3.2 for details).
This avoids issues with signature schemes where certain keys can generate signatures that are
valid for multiple inputs (see

[SEEMS-LEGIT]

).

5.  Example

For example, a client using the key ID "basement" and the signature algorithm Ed25519
[ED25519]

 could produce the following header field:

Schinazi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9729

The Concealed HTTP Authentication Scheme

February 2025

NOTE: '\' line wrapping per RFC 8792

Authorization: Concealed \
  k=YmFzZW1lbnQ, \
  a=VGhpcyBpcyBh-HB1YmxpYyBrZXkgaW4gdXNl_GhlcmU, \
  s=2055, \
  v=dmVyaWZpY2F0aW9u_zE2Qg, \
  p=QzpcV2luZG93c_xTeXN0ZW0zMlxkcml2ZXJz-ENyb3dkU\
    3RyaWtlXEMtMDAwMDAwMDAyOTEtMD-wMC0w_DAwLnN5cw

Figure 5: Example Header Field

6.  Server Handling

In this section, we subdivide the server role in two:

•

The "frontend" runs in the HTTP server that terminates the TLS or QUIC connection created
by the client.

•

The "backend" runs in the HTTP server that has access to the database of accepted key
identifiers and public keys.

In most deployments, we expect both the frontend and backend roles to be implemented in a
single HTTP origin server (as defined in
such that the frontend is an HTTP gateway (as defined in
is an HTTP origin server.

). However, these roles can be split
) and the backend

Section 3.6 of [HTTP]

Section 3.7 of [HTTP]

6.1.  Frontend Handling

If a frontend is configured to check the Concealed HTTP authentication scheme, it will parse the
Authorization (or Proxy-Authorization) header field. If the authentication scheme is set to
"Concealed", the frontend
present and can be parsed correctly as defined in Section 4. If any parameter is missing or fails to
parse, the frontend

 ignore the entire Authorization (or Proxy-Authorization) header field.

 validate that all the required authentication parameters are

MUST

MUST

The frontend then uses the data from these authentication parameters to compute the key
exporter output, as defined in Section 3.2. The frontend then shares the header field and the key
exporter output with the backend.

6.2.  Communication Between Frontend and Backend

If the frontend and backend roles are implemented in the same machine, this can be handled by
a simple function call.

If the roles are split between two separate HTTP servers, then the backend won't be able to
directly access the TLS keying material exporter from the TLS connection between the client and
frontend, so the frontend needs to explicitly send it. This document defines the "Concealed-Auth-
Export" request header field for this purpose. The Concealed-Auth-Export header field's value is a

Schinazi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9729

The Concealed HTTP Authentication Scheme

February 2025

Structured Field Byte Sequence (see
byte key exporter output (see Section 3.2), without any parameters. Note that Structured Field
Byte Sequences are encoded using the non-URL-safe variant of base64. For example:

Section 3.3.5 of [STRUCTURED-FIELDS]

) that contains the 48-

NOTE: '\' line wrapping per RFC 8792

Concealed-Auth-Export: :VGhpc+BleGFtcGxlIFRMU/BleHBvcn\
  Rlc+BvdXRwdXQ/aXMgNDggYnl0ZXMgI/+h:

Figure 6: Example Concealed-Auth-Export Header Field

SHALL

 forward the HTTP request to the backend, including the original unmodified
The frontend
Authorization (or Proxy-Authorization) header field and the newly added Concealed-Auth-Export
header field.

Note that, since the security of this mechanism requires the key exporter output to be correct,
backends need to trust frontends to send it truthfully. This trust relationship is common because
the frontend already needs access to the TLS certificate private key in order to respond to
requests. HTTP servers that parse the Concealed-Auth-Export header field
they have already established that they trust the sender. Similarly, frontends that send the
Concealed-Auth-Export header field
Export header field received from the client.

 ensure that they do not forward any Concealed-Auth-

 ignore it unless

MUST

MUST

6.3.  Backend Handling

Once the backend receives the Authorization (or Proxy-Authorization) header field and the key
exporter output, it looks up the key ID in its database of public keys. The backend
perform the following checks:

SHALL

 then

•

validate that all the required authentication parameters are present and can be parsed
correctly as defined in Section 4

•

ensure the key ID is present in the backend's database and maps to a corresponding public
key

•

validate that the public key from the database is equal to the one in the Authorization (or
Proxy-Authorization) header field

•

validate that the verification field from the Authorization (or Proxy-Authorization) header
field matches the one extracted from the key exporter output

•

verify the cryptographic signature as defined in Section 3.3

If all of these checks succeed, the backend can consider the request to be properly authenticated
and can reply accordingly (the backend can also forward the request to another HTTP server).

If any of the above checks fail, the backend
Authorization) header field was missing.

MUST

 treat it as if the Authorization (or Proxy-

Schinazi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9729

The Concealed HTTP Authentication Scheme

February 2025

6.4.  Non-Probeable Server Handling

Servers that wish to introduce resources whose existence cannot be probed need to ensure that
they do not reveal any information about those resources to unauthenticated clients. In
particular, such servers
that they would have used for nonexistent resources. For example, this can mean using HTTP
status code 404 (Not Found) instead of 401 (Unauthorized).

 respond to authentication failures with the exact same response

MUST

The authentication checks described above can take time to compute, and an attacker could
detect use of this mechanism if that time is observable by comparing the timing of a request for a
known nonexistent resource to the timing of a request for a potentially authenticated resource.
Servers can mitigate this observability by slightly delaying responses to some nonexistent
resources such that the timing of the authentication verification is not observable. This delay
needs to be carefully considered to avoid having the delay itself leak the fact that this origin uses
this mechanism at all.

Non-probeable resources also need to be non-discoverable for unauthenticated users. For
example, if a server operator wishes to hide an authenticated resource by pretending it does not
exist to unauthenticated users, then the server operator needs to ensure there are no
unauthenticated pages with links to that resource and no other out-of-band ways for
unauthenticated users to discover this resource.

7.  Requirements on TLS Usage

[TLS]
This authentication scheme is only defined for uses of HTTP with TLS
[HTTP/3]
, or HTTP/3
use of HTTP over TLS as typically used for HTTP/2
transport protocol uses TLS as its authentication and key exchange mechanism

. This includes any
 where the
[QUIC-TLS]
.

[HTTP/2]

Because the TLS keying material exporter is only secure for authentication when it is uniquely
bound to the TLS session
the following properties:

, the Concealed authentication scheme requires either one of

[RFC7627]

•

The TLS version in use is greater than or equal to 1.3

[TLS]
.

•

The TLS version in use is 1.2, and the extended master secret extension
negotiated.

[RFC7627]

 has been

MUST NOT

 use the Concealed HTTP authentication scheme on connections that do not

Clients
meet one of the two properties above. If a server receives a request that uses this authentication
scheme on a connection that meets neither of the above properties, the server
request as if the authentication were not present.

 treat the

MUST

Schinazi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9729

The Concealed HTTP Authentication Scheme

February 2025

8.  Security Considerations

The Concealed HTTP authentication scheme allows a client to authenticate to an origin server
while guaranteeing freshness and without the need for the server to transmit a nonce to the
client. This allows the server to accept authenticated clients without revealing that it supports or
expects authentication for some resources. It also allows authentication without the client
leaking the presence of authentication to observers due to cleartext TLS Client Hello extensions.

Since the freshness described above is provided by a TLS key exporter, it can be as old as the
underlying TLS connection. Servers can require better freshness by forcing clients to create new
connections using mechanisms such as the GOAWAY frame (see

Section 5.2 of [HTTP/3]

).

The authentication proofs described in this document are not bound to individual HTTP
requests; if the key is used for authentication proofs on multiple requests on the same
connection, they will all be identical. This allows for better compression when sending over the
wire, but it implies that client implementations that multiplex different security contexts over a
single HTTP connection need to ensure that those contexts cannot read each other's header
fields. Otherwise, one context would be able to replay the Authorization header field of another.
This constraint is met by modern web browsers. If an attacker were to compromise the browser
such that it could access another context's memory, the attacker might also be able to access the
corresponding key, so binding authentication to requests would not provide much benefit in
practice.

Authentication asymmetric keys used for the Concealed HTTP authentication scheme
MUST NOT
be reused in other protocols. Even though we attempt to mitigate these issues by adding a static
prefix to the signed data (see Section 3.3), reusing keys could undermine the security guarantees
of the authentication.

Origins offering this scheme can link requests that use the same key. However, requests are not
linkable across origins if the keys used are specific to the individual origins using this scheme.

9.  IANA Considerations

9.1.  HTTP Authentication Schemes Registry

IANA has registered the following entry in the "HTTP Authentication Schemes" registry
maintained at

<https://www.iana.org/assignments/http-authschemes>
:

Authentication Scheme Name:
Reference:
Notes:

RFC 9729

None

Concealed

Schinazi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9729

The Concealed HTTP Authentication Scheme

February 2025

9.2.  TLS Keying Material Exporter Labels

IANA has registered the following entry in the "TLS Exporter Labels" registry maintained at
<https://www.iana.org/assignments/tls-parameters>
:

EXPORTER-HTTP-Concealed-Authentication

Value:
DTLS-OK:
Recommended:
Reference:

N

Y
RFC 9729

9.3.  HTTP Field Name

IANA has registered the following entry in the "Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) Field Name
<https://www.iana.org/assignments/http-fields>
:
Registry" maintained at

Concealed-Auth-Export

permanent

Field Name:
Status:
Structured Type:
Reference:
Comments:

RFC 9729
None

Item

10.  References

10.1.  Normative References

[ABNF]

[BASE64]

[EdDSA]

[HTTP]

[KEY-EXPORT]

Crocker, D., Ed.
 and
ABNF" STD 68 RFC 5234 DOI 10.17487/RFC5234
,
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5234>

,

,

.

P. Overell "Augmented BNF for Syntax Specifications:

, January 2008,

<https://

Josefsson, S. "The Base16, Base32, and Base64 Data Encodings" RFC 4648 DOI
10.17487/RFC4648

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4648>

, October 2006,

,

,

.

 and

Josefsson, S.
(EdDSA)" RFC 8032 DOI 10.17487/RFC8032
editor.org/info/rfc8032>

,

,

,

.

I. Liusvaara "Edwards-Curve Digital Signature Algorithm

, January 2017,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
97 RFC 9110 DOI 10.17487/RFC9110
rfc9110>

,

,

.

, and
, June 2022,

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP Semantics" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

,

Rescorla, E. "Keying Material Exporters for Transport Layer Security (TLS)"
RFC 5705 DOI 10.17487/RFC5705
rfc5705>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, March 2010,

,
.

,

Schinazi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9729

The Concealed HTTP Authentication Scheme

February 2025

[PKCS1]

[QUIC]

[RFC2119]

[RFC7627]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8792]

,

Moriarty, K., Ed. Kaliski, B. Jonsson, J.
Cryptography Specifications Version 2.2" RFC 8017 DOI 10.17487/RFC8017
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8017>
November 2016,

A. Rusch "PKCS #1: RSA

, and
,

,

,

,

.

,

Iyengar, J., Ed.
Secure Transport" RFC 9000 DOI 10.17487/RFC9000
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9000>

 and
,

,

.

M. Thomson, Ed. "QUIC: A UDP-Based Multiplexed and

,

, May 2021,

<https://

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

M. Ray
Bhargavan, K., Ed. Delignat-Lavaud, A. Pironti, A. Langley, A.
"Transport Layer Security (TLS) Session Hash and Extended Master Secret
Extension" RFC 7627 DOI 10.17487/RFC7627
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc7627>

, September 2015,

, and

,

,

.

,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Watsen, K. Auerswald, E. Farrel, A.
Content of Internet-Drafts and RFCs" RFC 8792 DOI 10.17487/RFC8792
2020,

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8792>
.

Q. Wu "Handling Long Lines in

, and
,

,

, June

[STRUCTURED-FIELDS]

Nottingham, M.

 and

P. Kamp "Structured Field Values for HTTP" RFC
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, September 2024,

,

,

9651 DOI 10.17487/RFC9651
,
rfc9651>

.

[TLS]

[URI]

[X.690]

Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
,
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>

, August 2018,

,

.

,

Berners-Lee, T. Fielding, R.
, and
Generic Syntax" STD 66 RFC 3986 DOI 10.17487/RFC3986
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3986>

,

,

,

,

.

L. Masinter "Uniform Resource Identifier (URI):

, January 2005,

,

ITU-T "Information technology - ASN.1 encoding Rules: Specification of Basic
Encoding Rules (BER), Canonical Encoding Rules (CER) and Distinguished
Encoding Rules (DER)" ITU-T Recommendation X690 ISO/IEC 8825-1:2021
February 2021,

,
<https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.690>
.

,

,

10.2.  Informative References

[ED25519]

[HOBA]

 and

J. Schaad "Algorithm Identifiers for Ed25519, Ed448, X25519,

Josefsson, S.
and X448 for Use in the Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure" RFC 8410 DOI
10.17487/RFC8410

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8410>

, August 2018,

,

,

,

.

Farrell, S. Hoffman, P.
,
(HOBA)" RFC 7486 DOI 10.17487/RFC7486
editor.org/info/rfc7486>

, and

,

,

.

M. Thomas "HTTP Origin-Bound Authentication

,

, March 2015,

<https://www.rfc-

Schinazi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9729

The Concealed HTTP Authentication Scheme

February 2025

[HTTP/2]

[HTTP/3]

Thomson, M., Ed.
RFC9113

, June 2022,

 and

C. Benfield, Ed. "HTTP/2" RFC 9113 DOI 10.17487/
,

,

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9113>

.

Bishop, M., Ed. "HTTP/3" RFC 9114 DOI 10.17487/RFC9114
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9114>

,

,

,

.

, June 2022,

<https://

[MASQUE-ORIGINAL]

Schinazi, D. "The MASQUE Protocol" Work in Progress Internet-Draft,

,
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/
, 28 February 2019,

,

,

draft-schinazi-masque-00
html/draft-schinazi-masque-00>

.

[QUIC-TLS]

[SEEMS-LEGIT]

Thomson, M., Ed.
10.17487/RFC9001

 and
, May 2021,

S. Turner, Ed. "Using TLS to Secure QUIC" RFC 9001 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9001>

,

.

,

,

Jackson, D. Cremers, C. Cohn-Gordon, K.

,

,

, and

R. Sasse "Seems Legit:

,

Automated Analysis of Subtle Attacks on Protocols That Use Signatures" CCS '19:
Proceedings of the 2019 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and
Communications Security pp. 2165-2180 DOI 10.1145/3319535.3339813
November 2019,

<https://doi.org/10.1145/3319535.3339813>

,

,

.

,

,

Acknowledgments

The authors would like to thank many members of the IETF community, as this document is the
fruit of many hallway conversations. In particular, the authors would like to thank
Benjamin Reese Enghardt Nick Harper Dennis Jackson Ilari Liusvaara François Michel Lucas
,
Pardue Justin Richer Ben Schwartz Martin Thomson
 for their reviews and
contributions. The mechanism described in this document was originally part of the first
iteration of MASQUE

,
Chris A. Wood

[MASQUE-ORIGINAL]
.

David
,

,
, and

,

,

,

,

,

Authors' Addresses

David Schinazi
Google LLC
1600 Amphitheatre Parkway
Mountain View CA 94043
United States of America
Email:

,

dschinazi.ietf@gmail.com

David M. Oliver
Guardian Project
Email:
URI:

david@guardianproject.info

https://guardianproject.info

Jonathan Hoyland
Cloudflare Inc.
Email:

jonathan.hoyland@gmail.com

Schinazi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

