Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9876
7252
Standards Track
November 2025
2070-1721
T. Fossati
Linaro

E. Dijk
IoTconsultancy.nl

RFC 9876
Updates to the IANA Registration Procedures for
Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP) Content-
Formats

Abstract

This document updates RFC 7252 by modifying the registration procedures for the "CoAP
Content-Formats" IANA registry, within the "Constrained RESTful Environments (CoRE)
Parameters" registry group. This document also introduces a new column, "Media Type", to the
registry. Furthermore, this document reserves Content-Format identifiers 64998 and 64999 for
use in documentation.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9876
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Fossati & Dijk

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9876

CoAP Content-Format Registration Procedure Updates

November 2025

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Conventions and Definitions

3.  Security Considerations

4.  IANA Considerations

4.1.  CoAP Content-Formats Registry

4.1.1.  Temporary Content-Format Registrations

4.1.2.  Addition of the Media Type Column to the Registry

4.1.3.  Expert Review Procedure

4.1.4.  Preferred Format for the Content Type Field

4.1.5.  Examples of Invalid Registration Requests

4.2.  New Note and Reference Additions

4.3.  Reserving Content-Format Identifiers 64998 and 64999 for Documentation

5.  References

5.1.  Normative References

5.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

2

3

3

3

3

5

6

7

7

7

10

10

10

10

11

11

11

 describes the registration procedures for the "CoAP Content-Formats"

. (Note that the columns of this registry have been revised according to
.) In particular, it defines the rules for obtaining Constrained Application Protocol

Section 12.3 of [RFC7252]
IANA registry within the "Constrained RESTful Environments (CoRE) Parameters" registry group
[IANA.core-params]
[Err4954]
(CoAP) Content-Format identifiers from the "IETF Review or IESG Approval" range of the registry
(256-9999) as well as from the "First Come First Served" (FCFS) range of the registry
(10000-64999). For the FCFS range, these rules do not involve the designated expert and are
managed solely by IANA personnel to finalize the registration.

Fossati & Dijk

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9876

CoAP Content-Format Registration Procedure Updates

November 2025

Unfortunately, the rules do not explicitly require checking that the combination of Content-Type
(i.e., Media Type with optional parameters) and Content Coding associated with the requested
CoAP Content-Format is semantically valid. This task is generally non-trivial, requires knowledge
from multiple documents and technologies, and should not be solely demanded from the
registrar. This lack of guidance may engender confusion in both the registering party and the
registrar, and it has already led to erroneous registrations.

[RFC7252]

This document updates
 by modifying the registration procedures for the "CoAP
Content-Formats" registry to mitigate the risk of unintentional or malicious errors. These
updates amend the different ranges of the registry, introduce a review procedure to be
performed for most ranges of the registry, and allow the registration of temporary Content-
Format identifiers. This document also introduces a new column, "Media Type", to the registry.
Furthermore, this document reserves Content-Format identifiers 64998 and 64999 for use in
documentation.

2.  Conventions and Definitions

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

This document uses the terms "Media Type", "Content Coding", "Content-Type", and "Content
Format" as defined in

. In this document, those terms are fully capitalized.

Section 2 of [RFC9193]

3.  Security Considerations

This document updates the registration procedures of CoAP Content-Formats to reduce the
chances of malicious manipulation of the associated registry.

Otherwise, it does not change the Security Considerations of

[RFC7252]
.

4.  IANA Considerations

This document updates the IANA procedures defined in
 for registering CoAP Content-
Formats as described in Section 4.1. It also adds a new note concerning temporary registrations
(Section 4.2) and reserves Content-Format IDs 64998 and 64999 for documentation (Section 4.3).

[RFC7252]

4.1.  CoAP Content-Formats Registry

This section and its subsections replace

Section 12.3 of [RFC7252]
.

. In order to
Internet Media Types are identified by a string, such as "application/xml"
minimize the overhead of using Media Types to indicate the format of payloads,
 has
defined a registry for a subset of Internet Media Types to be used in CoAP and assigned each, in

[RFC7252]

[RFC2046]

Fossati & Dijk

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9876

CoAP Content-Format Registration Procedure Updates

November 2025

combination with a Content Coding, a numeric identifier. The name of the registry is "CoAP
Content-Formats", within the "Constrained RESTful Environments (CoRE) Parameters" registry
group.

Each entry in the registry must include the Content Type, the Content Coding (if any), the Media
Type registered with IANA, the numeric identifier in the range 0-65535 to be used for that Media
Type in CoAP, and a reference to a document describing what a payload with that Media Type
means semantically.

CoAP does not include a separate way to convey Content Coding information with a request or
response; for that reason, the Content Coding (if any) is also specified for each identifier. If
multiple Content Codings will be used with a Media Type, then a separate Content-Format
identifier for each is to be registered. Similarly, other parameters related to an Internet Media
Type can be defined for a CoAP Content-Format entry.

The registration procedures for CoAP Content-Formats are described in Table 1.

Range

Registration
Procedures

Note

0-255

Expert Review

Review procedure described in RFC 9876, Section
4.1.3.

256-9999

IETF Review with
Expert Review or IESG
Approval with Expert
Review

10000-19999

Expert Review

20000-32999

First Come First Served

Review procedure described in RFC 9876, Section
4.1.3.

Review procedure described in RFC 9876, Section
4.1.3.

FCFS is allowed if the registration has no
parameters, the registration has an empty Content
Coding, the Media Type is not yet used in this
registry, and the Media Type is registered (or
approved for registration) in the "Media Types"
registry

[IANA.media-types]
.

33000-64997

Expert Review

Review procedure described in RFC 9876, Section
4.1.3.

64998-64999

Reserved for
Documentation

65000-65535

Experimental Use

No operational use

Table 1: Registration Procedures for CoAP Content-Formats

Fossati & Dijk

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9876

CoAP Content-Format Registration Procedure Updates

November 2025

Because the namespace of single-byte identifiers is so small, the IANA policy for additions in the
range 0-255 inclusive to the registry is "Expert Review" as described in Section 4.5 of
[BCP26]
Paragraph 6.

. For the handling of temporary allocations within the 0-255 range, see also Section 4.1.1,

RFC 8126

The 256-9999 range has registration procedures requiring "IETF Review with Expert Review" or
"IESG Approval with Expert Review". In particular:

•

All assignments according to "IETF Review with Expert Review" are made on an "IETF
Review" basis per Section 4.8 of
required per Section 4.5 of

 with "Expert Review" additionally

RFC 8126 [BCP26]
.

RFC 8126 [BCP26]

The procedure for early IANA allocation of Standards Track code points defined in
also applies. When such a procedure is used, IANA will ask the designated expert(s) to
approve the early allocation before registration. In addition, working group chairs are
encouraged to consult the expert(s) early during the process outlined in
Section 3.1 of
[RFC7120]
.

[RFC7120]

•

All assignments according to "IESG Approval with Expert Review" are made on an "IESG
RFC 8126 [BCP26]
Approval" basis per Section 4.10 of
 with "Expert Review" additionally
RFC 8126 [BCP26]
.
required per Section 4.5 of

The registration policy for the 10000-19999 and 33000-64997 ranges is "Expert Review",
following the procedure described in Section 4.1.3.

The registration policy for the 20000-32999 range is FCFS. A registration request for this range
must consist solely of a registered Media Type name in the "Content Type" field, without any
parameter names or "Content Coding", and the Media Type must not have been used in this
registry yet. If the criteria do not apply, a registration for a different range (which requires
"Expert Review") can be requested.

The identifiers between 65000 and 65535 inclusive are reserved for experiments. They are not
 be used in operational deployments.
meant for vendor-specific use of any kind and

MUST NOT

In machine-to-machine (M2M) applications, it is not expected that generic Internet Media Types
such as text/plain, application/xml, or application/octet-stream are useful for real applications in
the long term. It is recommended that M2M applications making use of CoAP request new
Internet Media Types from IANA indicating semantic information about how to create or parse a
payload. For example, a Smart Energy application payload carried as Concise Binary Object
Representation (CBOR) might request a more specific type like application/se+cbor.

4.1.1.  Temporary Content-Format Registrations

This section clarifies that the "CoAP Content-Formats" registry allows temporary registrations
within the 0-64997 range.

Fossati & Dijk

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9876

CoAP Content-Format Registration Procedure Updates

November 2025

A temporary registration may be created, for example, by an IANA early allocation action
[RFC7120]
. If the referenced Media Type is provisional (that is, included in the "Provisional
Standard Media Type Registry"
temporary.

[IANA.prov-media-types]

), then a created registration is always

A temporary registration is marked as such by IANA in the corresponding registry entry. Once
the required registration procedure (defined in Table 1) for the temporary ID has successfully
completed, and the referenced Media Type is included in the "Media Types" registry
[IANA.media-types]
registration so that the entry becomes permanent.

, IANA must remove any indication about the temporary nature of the

If a temporary registration does not successfully complete the registration procedure, IANA must
remove the entry and set the Content-Format ID value back to "Unassigned". This may happen,
for example, when an Internet-Draft requesting a Content-Format ID is abandoned. If a
temporary registration (in any range) refers to a provisional Media Type that is abandoned,
IANA must remove the entry and set the Content-Format ID value back to "Unassigned".

Note that in the 10000-64997 range, the abandonment of a document requesting a Content-
Format ID does not cause an entry to be removed. That is because the required registration
procedure for this range does not require completion of any standards process, nor does it
require a registering document.

Temporary registrations within the 0-255 range are exempt from the formal renewal process
. Specifically, IANA will not monitor the removal of registrations in this
outlined in
range. Instead, the designated experts direct IANA to carry out this task.

[RFC7120]

4.1.2.  Addition of the Media Type Column to the Registry

To assist users of the "CoAP Content-Formats" registry in finding detailed information about the
Media Type associated with each CoAP Content-Format, and to ensure that a Media Type exists
before a new entry can be registered, IANA has added the new column "Media Type" to the
registry. This new column is placed to the right of the existing "Content Type" column.

The "Media Type" field for each entry lists the (base) Media Type name and provides a hyperlink
to registration information for that Media Type as recorded by IANA. If the Media Type is
provisional, the hyperlink points to the "Provisional Standard Media Type Registry"
media-types]
the "Media Type" field in the associated registry entries to ensure the hyperlink directs to the
registration information for that Media Type.

[IANA.prov-
. If a provisional Media Type becomes a permanent Media Type, IANA must update

In a registration request, the requester does not need to fill out the "Media Type" field separately,
as the necessary information is already provided in the "Content Type" field of the request.

Fossati & Dijk

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9876

CoAP Content-Format Registration Procedure Updates

November 2025

4.1.3.  Expert Review Procedure

The designated expert is instructed to perform the "Expert Review", as described by the
following checklist:

1.

The combination of Content-Type and Content Coding for which the registration is requested
must not be already present in the "CoAP Content-Formats" registry.

2.

The Media Type associated with the requested Content-Format must be either registered in
the "Media Types" registry
 or approved for registration. Alternatively, it
may be listed in the "Provisional Standard Media Type Registry"
The use of provisional standard Media Types is only permitted for Content-Format
identifiers within the ranges of 0-255 and 256-9999.

[IANA.prov-media-types]
.

[IANA.media-types]

3.

The optional parameter names must have been defined in association with the Media Type,
and any parameter values associated with such parameter names must be as permitted.

4.

The Content Type must be in the preferred format defined in Section 4.1.4.

5.

If a Content Coding is specified, it must exist (or must have been approved for registration)
in the "HTTP Content Coding Registry" within the "Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP)
Parameters" registry group

[IANA.http-params]
.

For the 0-255 range, in addition to the checks described above, the designated expert is
instructed to also evaluate the requested code point concerning the limited availability of the 1-
byte code point space. For the ranges 256-9999, 10000-19999, and 33000-64997, a similar criterion
may also apply where combinations of Media Type parameters and Content Coding choices
consume considerable code point space.

4.1.4.  Preferred Format for the Content Type Field

This section defines the preferred string format for including a requested Content Type in the
"CoAP Content-Formats" registry. During the review process, the designated expert(s) or IANA
may rewrite a requested Content Type into this preferred string format before approval.

The preferred string format is as defined in

Section 8.3.1 of [RFC9110]

 and follows these rules:

1.

For any case-insensitive elements, lowercase characters are used.

2.

Parameter values are only quoted if the value is such that it requires use of a quoted-string
per

. Otherwise, a parameter value is included unquoted.

Section 5.6.6 of [RFC9110]

3.

A single semicolon character without any adjacent whitespace characters is used as the
separator between the Media Type and parameters.

4.1.5.  Examples of Invalid Registration Requests

This section provides examples of registration requests for the "CoAP Content-Formats" registry
that are invalid but would be approved under the procedure defined in
[RFC7252]
succeeding. These examples serve as a representative, but not exhaustive, sample to train the
designated expert's eye on invalid registration attempts.

. The checklist defined in Section 4.1.3 should prevent any of these attempts from

Section 12.3 of

Fossati & Dijk

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9876

CoAP Content-Format Registration Procedure Updates

November 2025

All the example registration requests use two CoAP Content-Format identifiers: 64998 and 64999.

4.1.5.1.  The Media Type is Unknown

The registrant requests an FCFS Content-Format ID for an unknown Media Type:

Content Type

Content Coding

ID

application/unknown+cbor

-

64999

Table 2: Attempt at Registering Content-Format for an
Unknown Media Type

4.1.5.2.  The Media Type Parameter is Unknown

The registrant requests an FCFS Content-Format ID for an existing Media Type with an unknown
parameter:

Content Type

Content Coding

ID

application/cose;unknown-parameter=1

-

64999

Table 3: Attempt at Registering Content-Format for a Media Type with an
Unknown Parameter

4.1.5.3.  The Media Type Parameter Value is Invalid

The registrant requests an FCFS Content-Format ID for an existing Media Type with an invalid
parameter value:

Content Type

Content Coding

ID

application/cose;cose-type=invalid

-

64999

Table 4: Attempt at Registering Content-Format for a Media Type
with an Invalid Parameter Value

4.1.5.4.  The Content Coding is Unknown

The registrant requests an FCFS Content-Format ID for an existing Media Type with an unknown
Content Coding:

Content Type

Content Coding

ID

application/senml+cbor

inflate

64999

Table 5: Attempt at Registering Content-Format with
Unknown Content Coding

Fossati & Dijk

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9876

CoAP Content-Format Registration Procedure Updates

November 2025

4.1.5.5.  Duplicate Entry with Default Media Type Parameters

The registrant requests an FCFS Content-Format ID for a Media Type that includes a parameter
set to its default value, while a (hypothetical) Content-Format ID 64998 is already registered for
this Media Type without that parameter. As a result, this could lead to the creation of two
separate Content-Format IDs for the same "logical" entry.

Content Type

application/my

application/my;parameter=default

Content Coding

ID

-

-

64998

64999

Table 6: Attempt at Registering an Equivalent Logical Entry with a
Different Content-Format ID (1)

4.1.5.6.  Duplicate Entry with Default Content Coding

The registrant requests an FCFS Content-Format ID for the "identity" Content Coding, which is
the default coding. If accepted, this request would duplicate an entry with (hypothetical) Content-
Format ID 64998 where the "Content Coding" field is left empty.

Content Type

Content Coding

ID

application/my

-

application/my

identity

64998

64999

Table 7: Attempt at Registering an Equivalent
Logical Entry with a Different Content-Format
ID (2)

4.1.5.7.  Duplicate Entry with Equivalent Parameter

The registrant requests an FCFS Content-Format ID for a Media Type that includes a parameter.
The value of this parameter appears distinct from that of a (hypothetical) previously registered
Content-Format ID 64998 that also includes this parameter. However, the semantics of the
parameter value are identical to the existing registration.

In this example, the eat_profile parameter value (which can be any URI) is set as a Uniform
Resource Name (URN)
URNs is defined as case insensitive, the two registrations are semantically identical.

. Since the Namespace Identifier (example, in this case) for

[RFC8141]

Content Type

Content Coding

ID

application/eat+cwt;eat_profile="urn:example:1"

-

64998

Fossati & Dijk

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9876

CoAP Content-Format Registration Procedure Updates

November 2025

Content Type

Content Coding

ID

application/eat+cwt;eat_profile="urn:EXAMPLE:1"

-

64999

Table 8: Attempt at Registering an Equivalent Logical Entry with a Different
Content-Format ID (3)

4.2.  New Note and Reference Additions

IANA has added the following note to the registry:

Note: As per RFC 9876, temporary registrations within the 0-255 range are approved by
designated experts. These registrations are not subject to the formal renewal process in
[RFC7120]
.

IANA has also listed this document as an additional reference for the registry.

4.3.  Reserving Content-Format Identifiers 64998 and 64999 for
Documentation

IANA has reserved Content-Format identifiers 64998 and 64999 for use in documentation.

5.  References

5.1.  Normative References

[BCP26]

Best Current Practice 26,
At the time of writing, this BCP comprises the following:

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/bcp26>
.

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

, June

[IANA.core-params]

IANA "Constrained RESTful Environments (CoRE) Parameters" <https://

,

,

www.iana.org/assignments/core-parameters>

.

[IANA.http-params]

IANA "Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) Parameters" <https://

,

,

www.iana.org/assignments/http-parameters>

.

[IANA.media-types]

IANA "Media Types" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/media-types>

,

,

.

[IANA.prov-media-types]

,
www.iana.org/assignments/provisional-standard-media-types>
.

IANA "Provisional Standard Media Type Registry" <https://

,

Fossati & Dijk

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9876

CoAP Content-Format Registration Procedure Updates

November 2025

[RFC2119]

[RFC7120]

[RFC7252]

[RFC8174]

[RFC9110]

[RFC9193]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Cotton, M. "Early IANA Allocation of Standards Track Code Points" BCP 100 RFC
7120 DOI 10.17487/RFC7120
,
rfc7120>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, January 2014,

,

.

Shelby, Z. Hartke, K.
,
(CoAP)" RFC 7252 DOI 10.17487/RFC7252
editor.org/info/rfc7252>

, and

,

,

.

C. Bormann "The Constrained Application Protocol

,

, June 2014,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
97 RFC 9110 DOI 10.17487/RFC9110
rfc9110>

,

,

.

, and
, June 2022,

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP Semantics" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

 and

C. Bormann "Sensor Measurement Lists (SenML) Fields for

Keränen, A.
Indicating Data Value Content-Format" RFC 9193 DOI 10.17487/RFC9193
2022,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9193>

,

,

,

.

, June

5.2.  Informative References

[Err4954]

[RFC2046]

[RFC8141]

RFC Errata Erratum ID 4954 RFC 7252 <https://www.rfc-editor.org/errata/
eid4954>

,

,

,

.

 and

Freed, N.
,
Part Two: Media Types" RFC 2046 DOI 10.17487/RFC2046
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2046>

N. Borenstein "Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME)
, November 1996,

,

,

.

Saint-Andre, P.
10.17487/RFC8141

 and

,
, April 2017,

J. Klensin "Uniform Resource Names (URNs)" RFC 8141 DOI

,

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8141>

.

Acknowledgments

Thank you
Amanda Baber Carsten Bormann Christer Holmberg Éric Vyncke Francesca
,
Palombini Ketan Talaulikar Marco Tiloca Mohamed Boucadair Paul Wouters Renzo Navas
,
Rich Salz

 for your reviews, comments, suggestions, and fixes.

,
,

,
,

,

,

,

, and

Authors' Addresses

Thomas Fossati
Linaro
Email:

thomas.fossati@linaro.org

Fossati & Dijk

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9876

CoAP Content-Format Registration Procedure Updates

November 2025

Esko Dijk
IoTconsultancy.nl
Email:

esko.dijk@iotconsultancy.nl

Fossati & Dijk

Standards Track

Page 12

