Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9567
Standards Track
April 2024
2070-1721
R. Arends
ICANN

M. Larson
ICANN

RFC 9567
DNS Error Reporting

Abstract

DNS error reporting is a lightweight reporting mechanism that provides the operator of an
authoritative server with reports on DNS resource records that fail to resolve or validate. A
domain owner or DNS hosting organization can use these reports to improve domain hosting.
The reports are based on extended DNS errors as described in RFC 8914.

When a domain name fails to resolve or validate due to a misconfiguration or an attack, the
operator of the authoritative server may be unaware of this. To mitigate this lack of feedback,
this document describes a method for a validating resolver to automatically signal an error to a
monitoring agent specified by the authoritative server. The error is encoded in the QNAME; thus,
the very act of sending the query is to report the error.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9567
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Arends & Larson

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9567

DNS Error Reporting

April 2024

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Requirements Notation

3.  Terminology

4.  Overview

4.1.  Example

5.  EDNS0 Option Specification

6.  DNS Error Reporting Specification

6.1.  Reporting Resolver Specification

6.1.1.  Constructing the Report Query

6.2.  Authoritative Server Specification

6.3.  Monitoring Agent Specification

7.  IANA Considerations

8.  Operational Considerations

8.1.  Choosing an Agent Domain

8.2.  Managing Caching Optimizations

9.  Security Considerations

10. References

10.1.  Normative References

10.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

3

3

3

4

4

5

5

6

6

7

7

7

7

7

8

8

9

9

9

10

10

Arends & Larson

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9567

DNS Error Reporting

April 2024

1.  Introduction

When an authoritative server serves a stale DNSSEC-signed zone, the cryptographic signatures
over the resource record sets (RRsets) may have lapsed. A validating resolver will fail to validate
these resource records.

Similarly, when there is a mismatch between the Delegation Signer (DS) records at a parent zone
and the key signing key at the child zone, a validating resolver will fail to authenticate records in
the child zone.

These are two of several failure scenarios that may go unnoticed for some time by the operator
of a zone.

Today, there is no direct relationship between operators of validating resolvers and authoritative
servers. Outages are often noticed indirectly by end users and reported via email or social media
(if reported at all).

When records fail to validate, there is no facility to report this failure in an automated way. If
there is any indication that an error or warning has happened, it may be buried in log files of the
resolver or not logged at all.

This document describes a method that can be used by validating resolvers to report DNSSEC
validation errors in an automated way.

It allows an authoritative server to announce a monitoring agent to which validating resolvers
can report issues if those resolvers are configured to do so.

The burden to report a failure falls on the validating resolver. It is important that the effort
needed to report failure is low, with minimal impact to its main functions. To accomplish this
goal, the DNS itself is utilized to report the error.

2.  Requirements Notation

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Terminology

This document uses DNS terminology defined in BCP 219
and uses the following terms:

[RFC9499]

. This document also defines

Reporting resolver:

A validating resolver that supports DNS error reporting.

Arends & Larson

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9567

DNS Error Reporting

April 2024

Report query:

The DNS query used to report an error. A report query is for a DNS TXT resource
record type. The content of the error report is encoded in the QNAME of a DNS request to the
monitoring agent.

Monitoring agent:

An authoritative server that receives and responds to report queries. This

facility is indicated by a domain name, referred to as the "agent domain".

Agent domain:

A domain name that is returned in the EDNS0 Report-Channel option and

indicates where DNS resolvers can send error reports.

4.  Overview

An authoritative server indicates support for DNS error reporting by including an EDNS0 Report-
Channel option with OPTION-CODE 18 and the agent domain in the response. The agent domain
is a fully qualified, uncompressed domain name in DNS wire format. The authoritative server
 include this option in the response if the configured agent domain is empty or is the
MUST NOT
null label (which would indicate the DNS root).

The authoritative server includes the EDNS0 Report-Channel option unsolicited. That is, the
option is included in a response despite the EDNS0 Report-Channel option being absent in the
request.

If the authoritative server has indicated support for DNS error reporting and there is an issue
that can be reported via extended DNS errors, the reporting resolver encodes the error report in
the QNAME of the report query. The reporting resolver builds this QNAME by concatenating the
"_er" label, the QTYPE, the QNAME that resulted in failure, the extended DNS error code (as
described in
), the label "_er" again, and the agent domain. See the example in Section
4.1 and the specification in Section 6.1.1. Note that a regular RCODE is not included because the
RCODE is not relevant to the extended DNS error code.

[RFC8914]

The resulting report query is sent as a standard DNS query for a TXT DNS resource record type
by the reporting resolver.

The report query will ultimately arrive at the monitoring agent. A response is returned by the
monitoring agent, which in turn can be cached by the reporting resolver. This caching is
essential. It dampens the number of report queries sent by a reporting resolver for the same
problem (that is, with caching, one report query per TTL is sent). However, certain optimizations,
such as those described in
queries as well.

, may reduce the number of error report

[RFC8020]

[RFC8198]

 and

This document gives no guidance on the content of the RDATA in the TXT resource record.

4.1.  Example

A query for "broken.test.", type A, is sent by a reporting resolver.

Arends & Larson

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9567

DNS Error Reporting

April 2024

The domain "test." is hosted on a set of authoritative servers. One of these authoritative servers
serves a stale version of the "test." zone. This authoritative server has an agent domain
configured as "a01.agent-domain.example.".

The authoritative server with the stale "test." zone receives the request for "broken.test.". It
returns a response that includes the EDNS0 Report-Channel option with the domain name
"a01.agent-domain.example.".

The reporting resolver is unable to validate the "broken.test." RRset for type A (an RR type with
value 1), due to an RRSIG record with an expired signature.

The reporting resolver constructs the QNAME "_er.1.broken.test.7._er.a01.agent-
domain.example." and resolves it. This QNAME indicates extended DNS error 7 occurred while
trying to validate "broken.test." for a type A (an RR type with value 1) record.

When this query is received at the monitoring agent (the operators of the authoritative server for
"a01.agent-domain.example."), the agent can determine the "test." zone contained an expired
signature record (extended DNS error 7) for type A for the domain name "broken.test.". The
monitoring agent can contact the operators of "test." to fix the issue.

5.  EDNS0 Option Specification

This method uses an EDNS0
option is structured as follows:

[RFC6891]

 option to indicate the agent domain in DNS responses. The

                     1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 3 3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|        OPTION-CODE = 18       |       OPTION-LENGTH           |
+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
/                         AGENT DOMAIN                          /
+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+

Field definition details:

OPTION-CODE:

2 octets; an EDNS0 code that is used in an EDNS0 option to indicate support for

error reporting. The name for this EDNS0 option code is Report-Channel.

OPTION-LENGTH:

2 octets; contains the length of the AGENT DOMAIN field in octets.

AGENT DOMAIN:

A fully qualified domain name

[RFC9499]

 in uncompressed DNS wire format.

6.  DNS Error Reporting Specification

The various errors that a reporting resolver may encounter are listed in
all listed errors may be supported by the reporting resolver. This document does not specify
what is or is not an error.

[RFC8914]

. Note that not

Arends & Larson

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9567

DNS Error Reporting

April 2024

The DNS class is not specified in the error report.

6.1.  Reporting Resolver Specification

Care should be taken when additional DNS resolution is needed to resolve the QNAME that
contains the error report. This resolution itself could trigger another error report to be created. A
maximum expense or depth limit

 be used to prevent cascading errors.

MUST

The EDNS0 Report-Channel option

MUST NOT

 be included in queries.

The reporting resolver
empty AGENT DOMAIN field in the EDNS0 Report-Channel option.

MUST NOT

 use DNS error reporting if the authoritative server returned an

For the monitoring agent to gain more confidence that the report is not spoofed, the reporting
resolver
or

. This makes it harder to falsify the source address.

 or other connection-oriented protocols

 send error reports over TCP

 use DNS Cookies

[RFC7873]

[RFC7766]

SHOULD

SHOULD

A reporting resolver
special treatment for responses to error-reporting queries. Section 9 ("Security Considerations")
contains the rationale behind this.

 validate responses received from the monitoring agent. There is no

MUST

6.1.1.  Constructing the Report Query

The QNAME for the report query is constructed by concatenating the following elements:

•

A label containing the string "_er".

•

The QTYPE that was used in the query that resulted in the extended DNS error, presented as
a decimal value, in a single DNS label. If additional QTYPEs were present in the query, such
as described in
separated by a hyphen. As an example, if both QTYPE A and AAAA were present in the query,
they are presented as the label "1-28".

, they are represented as unique, ordered decimal values

[MULTI-QTYPES]

•

The list of non-null labels representing the query name that is the subject of the DNS error
report.

•

The extended DNS error code, presented as a decimal value, in a single DNS label.

•

A label containing the string "_er".

•

The agent domain. The agent domain as received in the EDNS0 Report-Channel option set by
the authoritative server.

If the QNAME of the report query exceeds 255 octets, it

MUST NOT

 be sent.

The "_er" labels allow the monitoring agent to differentiate between the agent domain and the
faulty query name. When the specified agent domain is empty, or is a null label (despite being
not allowed in this specification), the report query will have "_er" as a top-level domain, and not
the top-level domain from the query name that was the subject of this error report. The purpose
of the first "_er" label is to indicate that a complete report query has been received instead of a
shorter report query due to query minimization.

Arends & Larson

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9567

DNS Error Reporting

April 2024

6.2.  Authoritative Server Specification

The authoritative server
response.

MUST NOT

 include more than one EDNS0 Report-Channel option in a

The authoritative server includes the EDNS0 Report-Channel option unsolicited in responses.
There is no requirement that the EDNS0 Report-Channel option be present in queries.

6.3.  Monitoring Agent Specification

RECOMMENDED

It is
response (i.e., not with NODATA or NXDOMAIN) containing a TXT record.

 that the authoritative server for the agent domain reply with a positive

The monitoring agent
with a response that has the truncation bit (TC bit) set to challenge the resolver to requery over
TCP.

 respond to queries received over UDP that have no DNS Cookie set

SHOULD

7.  IANA Considerations

IANA has assigned the following in the "DNS EDNS0 Option Codes (OPT)" registry:

Value Name

Status

Reference

18

Report-Channel

Standard

RFC 9567

Table 1

IANA has assigned the following in the "Underscored and Globally Scoped DNS Node Names"
registry:

RR Type

_NODE NAME

Reference

TXT

_er

RFC 9567

Table 2

8.  Operational Considerations

8.1.  Choosing an Agent Domain

RECOMMENDED

 that the agent domain be kept relatively short to allow for a longer QNAME

It is
in the report query. The agent domain
on. That is, if the authoritative server hosts the foo.example domain, then its agent domain
NOT

 be a subdomain of the domain it is reporting

 end in foo.example.

MUST NOT

MUST

Arends & Larson

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9567

DNS Error Reporting

April 2024

8.2.  Managing Caching Optimizations

The reporting resolver may utilize various caching optimizations that inhibit subsequent error
reporting to the same monitoring agent.

If the monitoring agent were to respond with NXDOMAIN (name error),
name at or below that domain should be considered unreachable, and negative caching would
prohibit subsequent queries for anything at or below that domain for a period of time,
depending on the negative TTL

[RFC2308]
.

[RFC8020]

 states that any

Since the monitoring agent may not know the contents of all the zones for which it acts as a
monitoring agent, the monitoring agent
MUST NOT
monitoring because that could inhibit subsequent queries. One method to avoid NXDOMAIN is to
use a wildcard domain name

 respond with NXDOMAIN for domains it is

 in the zone for the agent domain.

[RFC4592]

). This optimization makes use of NSEC and NSEC3 (without opt-out) records and allows

When the agent domain is signed, a resolver may use aggressive negative caching (described in
[RFC8198]
the resolver to do the wildcard synthesis. When this happens, the resolver does not send
subsequent queries because it will be able to synthesize a response from previously cached
material.

A solution is to avoid DNSSEC for the agent domain. Signing the agent domain will incur an
additional burden on the reporting resolver, as it has to validate the response. However, this
response has no utility to the reporting resolver other than dampening the query load for error
reports.

9.  Security Considerations

Use of DNS error reporting may expose local configuration mistakes in the reporting resolver,
such as stale DNSSEC trust anchors, to the monitoring agent.

DNS error reporting
privacy.

SHOULD

 be done using DNS query name minimization

[RFC9156]

 to improve

DNS error reporting is done without any authentication between the reporting resolver and the
authoritative server of the agent domain.

Resolvers that send error reports
Cookies
SHOULD
has the truncation bit (TC bit) set to challenge the resolver to requery over TCP.

[RFC7873]
 respond to queries received over UDP that have no DNS Cookie set with a response that

. This makes it hard to falsify the source address. The monitoring agent

 send them over TCP

[RFC7766]

 use DNS

SHOULD

SHOULD

 or

Well-known addresses of reporting resolvers can provide a higher level of confidence in the
error reports and potentially enable more automated processing of these reports.

Monitoring agents that receive error reports over UDP should consider that the source of the
reports and the reports themselves may be false.

Arends & Larson

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9567

DNS Error Reporting

April 2024

The method described in this document will cause additional queries by the reporting resolver to
authoritative servers in order to resolve the report query.

This method can be abused by intentionally deploying broken zones with agent domains that are
delegated to victims. This is particularly effective when DNS requests that trigger error messages
are sent through open resolvers
that perform distributed queries from around the globe.

 or widely distributed network monitoring systems

[RFC9499]

An adversary may create massive error report flooding to camouflage an attack.

Though this document gives no guidance on the content of the RDATA in the TXT resource
record, if the RDATA content is logged, the monitoring agent
malicious and take appropriate measures to avoid exploitation. One such method could be to log
in hexadecimal. This would avoid remote code execution through logging string attacks, such as
[CVE-2021-44228]
.
the vulnerability described in

 assume the content can be

MUST

The rationale behind mandating DNSSEC validation for responses from a reporting agent, even if
the agent domain is proposed to remain unsigned, is to mitigate the risk of a downgrade attack
orchestrated by adversaries. In such an attack, a victim's legitimately signed domain could be
deceptively advertised as an agent domain by malicious actors. Consequently, if the validating
resolver treats it as unsigned, it is exposed to potential cache poisoning attacks. By enforcing
DNSSEC validation, this vulnerability is preemptively addressed.

10.  References

10.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

10.2.  Informative References

[CVE-2021-44228]

CVE "CVE-2021-44228"

,

, 26 November 2021,

<https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/

cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2021-44228>

.

[MULTI-QTYPES]

Bellis, R. "DNS Multiple QTYPEs" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/

, 4 December 2023,

,
dnssd-multi-qtypes-00
draft-ietf-dnssd-multi-qtypes-00>

,

,

.

[RFC2308]

Andrews, M. "Negative Caching of DNS Queries (DNS NCACHE)" RFC 2308 DOI
10.17487/RFC2308

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2308>

, March 1998,

,
.

,

,

Arends & Larson

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9567

DNS Error Reporting

April 2024

[RFC4592]

[RFC6891]

[RFC7766]

[RFC7873]

[RFC8020]

[RFC8198]

[RFC8914]

[RFC9156]

[RFC9499]

Lewis, E. "The Role of Wildcards in the Domain Name System" RFC 4592 DOI
,
10.17487/RFC4592

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4592>

, July 2006,

,

,

.

Damas, J. Graff, M.
,
STD 75 RFC 6891 DOI 10.17487/RFC6891
,
editor.org/info/rfc6891>

, and

,

.

P. Vixie "Extension Mechanisms for DNS (EDNS(0))"

,

,

, April 2013,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Dickinson, J. Dickinson, S. Bellis, R. Mankin, A.
over TCP - Implementation Requirements" RFC 7766 DOI 10.17487/RFC7766
March 2016,

D. Wessels "DNS Transport
, and
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7766>

,

,

,

,

.

,

 and

Eastlake 3rd, D.
7873 DOI 10.17487/RFC7873
,
rfc7873>

.

M. Andrews "Domain Name System (DNS) Cookies" RFC

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2016,

,

 and

Bortzmeyer, S.
Underneath" RFC 8020 DOI 10.17487/RFC8020
,
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8020>

.

S. Huque "NXDOMAIN: There Really Is Nothing

,

, November 2016,

<https://

,

Fujiwara, K. Kato, A.
Cache" RFC 8198 DOI 10.17487/RFC8198
,
info/rfc8198>

, and

,

.

W. Kumari "Aggressive Use of DNSSEC-Validated

,

, July 2017,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

,

Kumari, W. Hunt, E. Arends, R. Hardaker, W.
,
Errors" RFC 8914 DOI 10.17487/RFC8914
editor.org/info/rfc8914>

,

,

,

.

, and
, October 2020,

,
D. Lawrence "Extended DNS
<https://www.rfc-

,

Bortzmeyer, S. Dolmans, R.
Improve Privacy" RFC 9156 DOI 10.17487/RFC9156
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9156>

, and
,

,

,

.

P. Hoffman "DNS Query Name Minimisation to

, November 2021,

<https://

Hoffman, P.
10.17487/RFC9499

 and

K. Fujiwara "DNS Terminology" BCP 219 RFC 9499 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9499>

, March 2024,

,

,

,

,

.

Acknowledgements

,

. The authors would like to
Peter van Dijk Stephane Bortzmeyer Shane Kerr Vladimir Cunat Paul Hoffman Philip

This document is based on an idea by
thank
Homburg Mark Andrews Libor Peltan Matthijs Mekking Willem Toorop Tom Carpay Dick
Franks Ben Schwartz Yaron Sheffer Viktor Dukhovni Wes Hardaker James Gannon Tim
Wicinski Warren Kumari Gorry Fairhurst Benno Overeinder Paul Wouters
,
their contributions.

Roy Arends
,

David Conrad

Petr Spacek

, and

 and

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

 for

Authors' Addresses

Roy Arends
ICANN
Email:

 roy.arends@icann.org

Arends & Larson

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9567

DNS Error Reporting

April 2024

Matt Larson
ICANN
Email:

 matt.larson@icann.org

Arends & Larson

Standards Track

Page 11

