Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9175
7252
Standards Track
February 2022
2070-1721
C. Amsüss

J. Preuß Mattsson
Ericsson AB

G. Selander
Ericsson AB

RFC 9175
Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP): Echo,
Request-Tag, and Token Processing

Abstract

This document speciﬁes enhancements to the Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP) that
mitigate security issues in particular use cases. The Echo option enables a CoAP server to verify
the freshness of a request or to force a client to demonstrate reachability at its claimed network
address. The Request-Tag option allows the CoAP server to match block-wise message fragments
belonging to the same request. This document updates RFC 7252 with respect to the following:
processing requirements for client Tokens, forbidding non-secure reuse of Tokens to ensure
response-to-request binding when CoAP is used with a security protocol, and ampliﬁcation
mitigation (where the use of the Echo option is now recommended).

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9175
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Amsüss, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9175

Echo, Request-Tag, and Token Processing

February 2022

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Terminology

2.  Request Freshness and the Echo Option

2.1.  Request Freshness

2.2.  The Echo Option

2.2.1.  Echo Option Format

2.3.  Echo Processing

2.4.  Applications of the Echo Option

2.5.  Characterization of Echo Applications

2.5.1.  Time-Based versus Event-Based Freshness

2.5.2.  Authority over Used Information

2.5.3.  Protection by a Security Protocol

2.6.  Updated Ampliﬁcation Mitigation Requirements for Servers

3.  Protecting Message Bodies Using Request Tags

3.1.  Fragmented Message Body Integrity

3.2.  The Request-Tag Option

3.2.1.  Request-Tag Option Format

3.3.  Request-Tag Processing by Servers

3.4.  Setting the Request-Tag

3.5.  Applications of the Request-Tag Option

3.5.1.  Body Integrity Based on Payload Integrity

3.5.2.  Multiple Concurrent Block-Wise Operations

3.5.3.  Simpliﬁed Block-Wise Handling for Constrained Proxies

Amsüss, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9175

Echo, Request-Tag, and Token Processing

February 2022

3.6.  Rationale for the Option Properties

3.7.  Rationale for Introducing the Option

3.8.  Block2 and ETag Processing

4.  Token Processing for Secure Request-Response Binding

4.1.  Request-Response Binding

4.2.  Updated Token Processing Requirements for Clients

5.  Security Considerations

5.1.  Token Reuse

6.  Privacy Considerations

7.  IANA Considerations

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

8.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Methods for Generating Echo Option Values

Appendix B.  Request-Tag Message Size Impact

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

, and

[RFC7959]

The initial suite of speciﬁcations for the Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP) (
[RFC7641]
. However, for some use cases, additional
separate layer, in particular, by using DTLS
functionality or extra processing is needed to support secure CoAP operations. This document
speciﬁes security enhancements to CoAP.

) was designed with the assumption that security could be provided on a

[RFC6347]

[RFC7252]

,

Amsüss, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9175

Echo, Request-Tag, and Token Processing

February 2022

This document speciﬁes two CoAP options, the Echo option and the Request-Tag option. The Echo
option enables a CoAP server to verify the freshness of a request, which can be used to
synchronize state, or to force a client to demonstrate reachability at its claimed network address.
The Request-Tag option allows the CoAP server to match message fragments belonging to the
same request, fragmented using the CoAP block-wise transfer mechanism, which mitigates
attacks and enables concurrent block-wise operations. These options in themselves do not
replace the need for a security protocol; they specify the format and processing of data that,
[RFC6347]
when integrity protected using, e.g., DTLS
Constrained RESTful Environments (OSCORE)

, or Object Security for
[RFC8446]
, provide the additional security features.

, TLS
[RFC8613]

This document updates
mitigate ampliﬁcation attacks.

[RFC7252]

 with a recommendation that servers use the Echo option to

The document also updates the Token processing requirements for clients speciﬁed in
The updated processing forbids non-secure reuse of Tokens to ensure binding of responses to
requests when CoAP is used with security, thus mitigating error cases and attacks where the client
may erroneously associate the wrong response to a request.

[RFC7252]

.

Each of the following sections provides a more-detailed introduction to the topic at hand in its
ﬁrst subsection.

1.1.  Terminology

", "
The key words "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
"
", "
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

[RFC7252]

Like
of the Web.

, this document relies on the Representational State Transfer

[REST]

 architecture

Unless otherwise speciﬁed, the terms "client" and "server" refer to "CoAP client" and "CoAP server",
respectively, as deﬁned in

[RFC7252]

.

A message's "freshness" is a measure of when a message was sent on a timescale of the recipient.
A server that receives a request can either verify that the request is fresh or determine that it
cannot be veriﬁed that the request is fresh. What is considered a fresh message is application
dependent; exemplary uses are "no more than 42 seconds ago" or "after this server's last reboot".

The terms "payload" and "body" of a message are used as in
of a request and a response body is called a (REST) "operation". An operation fragmented using
[RFC7959]
request body is called a "block-wise request operation". A block-wise operation that is
fragmenting the response body is called a "block-wise response operation".

 is called a "block-wise operation". A block-wise operation that is fragmenting the

. The complete interchange

[RFC7959]

Amsüss, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9175

Echo, Request-Tag, and Token Processing

February 2022

Two request messages are said to be "matchable" if they occur between the same endpoint pair,
have the same code, and have the same set of options, with the exception that elective
NoCacheKey options and options involved in block-wise transfer (Block1, Block2, and Request-
Tag) need not be the same. Two blockwise request operations are said to be matchable if their
request messages are matchable.

Two matchable block-wise request operations are said to be "concurrent" if a block of the second
request is exchanged even though the client still intends to exchange further blocks in the ﬁrst
operation. (Concurrent block-wise request operations from a single endpoint are impossible with
the options of
operation's block overwrites any state of the ﬁrst exchange.)

 -- see the last paragraphs of Sections 2.4 and 2.5 -- because the second

[RFC7959]

The Echo and Request-Tag options are deﬁned in this document.

2.  Request Freshness and the Echo Option

2.1.  Request Freshness

A CoAP server receiving a request is, in general, not able to verify when the request was sent by
the CoAP client. This remains true even if the request was protected with a security protocol, such
as DTLS. This makes CoAP requests vulnerable to certain delay attacks that are particularly
perilous in the case of actuators
fresh session keys, e.g., performing a DTLS handshake for each request, but, in general, this is not a
solution suitable for constrained environments, for example, due to increased message overhead
and latency. Additionally, if there are proxies, fresh DTLS session keys between the server and the
proxy do not say anything about when the client made the request. In a general hop-by-hop
setting, freshness may need to be veriﬁed in each hop.

. Some attacks can be mitigated by establishing

[COAP-ATTACKS]

A straightforward mitigation of potential delayed requests is that the CoAP server rejects a
request the ﬁrst time it appears and asks the CoAP client to prove that it intended to make the
request at this point in time.

2.2.  The Echo Option

This document deﬁnes the Echo option, a lightweight challenge-response mechanism for CoAP
that enables a CoAP server to verify the freshness of a request. A fresh request is one whose age
has not yet exceeded the freshness requirements set by the server. The freshness requirements
are application speciﬁc and may vary based on resource, method, and parameters outside of
CoAP, such as policies. The Echo option value is a challenge from the server to the client included
in a CoAP response and echoed back to the server in one or more CoAP requests.

Amsüss, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9175

Echo, Request-Tag, and Token Processing

February 2022

This mechanism is not only important in the case of actuators, or other use cases where the CoAP
operations require freshness of requests, but also in general for synchronizing state between a
CoAP client and server, cryptographically verifying the aliveness of the client or forcing a client
to demonstrate reachability at its claimed network address. The same functionality can be
provided by echoing freshness indicators in CoAP payloads, but this only works for methods and
response codes deﬁned to have a payload. The Echo option provides a convention to transfer
freshness indicators that works for all methods and response codes.

2.2.1.  Echo Option Format

The Echo option is elective, safe to forward, not part of the cache-key, and not repeatable (see
Table 1, which extends Table 4 of

[RFC7252]

).

No.

C

U N R Name

Format

Length Default

252

x

Echo

opaque

1-40

(none)

Table 1: Echo Option Summary

C=Critical, U=Unsafe, N=NoCacheKey, R=Repeatable

The Echo option value is generated by a server, and its content and structure are implementation
speciﬁc. Diﬀerent methods for generating Echo option values are outlined in Appendix A. Clients
and intermediaries
 treat an Echo option value as opaque and make no assumptions about
its content or structure.

MUST

When receiving an Echo option in a request, the server
option value (a) was generated by the server or some other party that the server trusts and (b)
fulﬁlls the freshness requirements of the application. Depending on the freshness requirements,
the server may verify exactly when the Echo option value was generated (time-based freshness)
or verify that the Echo option was generated after a speciﬁc event (event-based freshness). As the
request is bound to the Echo option value, the server can determine that the request is not older
than the Echo option value.

 be able to verify that the Echo

MUST

[RFC8613] MAY

When the Echo option is used with OSCORE
Inner and Outer values are independent. OSCORE servers
unless they are merely testing for reachability of the client (the same as proxies may do). The
Inner option is encrypted and integrity protected between the endpoints, whereas the Outer
option is not protected by OSCORE. As always with OSCORE, Outer options are visible to (and may
be acted on by) all proxies and are visible on all links where no additional encryption (like TLS
between client and proxy) is used.

 be an Inner or Outer option, and the
 only produce Inner Echo options

MUST

, it

2.3.  Echo Processing

The Echo option
applications).

MAY

 be included in any request or response (see Section 2.4 for diﬀerent

Amsüss, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9175

Echo, Request-Tag, and Token Processing

February 2022

The application decides under what conditions a CoAP request to a resource is required to be
fresh. These conditions can, for example, include what resource is requested, the request method
and other data in the request, and conditions in the environment, such as the state of the server
or the time of the day.

If a certain request is required to be fresh, the request does not contain a fresh Echo option value,
and the server cannot verify the freshness of the request in some other way, the server
MUST NOT
process the request further and
 send a 4.01 (Unauthorized) response with an Echo option.
 include the same Echo option value in several diﬀerent response messages and to
The server
diﬀerent clients. Examples of this could be time-based freshness (when several responses are sent
closely after each other) or event-based freshness (with no event taking place between the
responses).

SHOULD

MAY

The server may use request freshness provided by the Echo option to verify the aliveness of a
client or to synchronize state. The server may also include the Echo option in a response to force
a client to demonstrate reachability at its claimed network address. Note that the Echo option
does not bind a request to any particular previous response but provides an indication that the
client had access to the previous response at the time when it created the request.

MAY

Upon receiving a 4.01 (Unauthorized) response with the Echo option, the client
the original request with the addition of an Echo option with the received Echo option value. The
client
response with the Echo option, the client
to the server. The client
the server or discard it at any time (especially to avoid tracking; see Section 6).

 echo the Echo option value in the next request
 include the same Echo option value in several diﬀerent requests to

 send a diﬀerent request compared to the original request. Upon receiving any other

SHOULD

SHOULD

 resend

MAY

MUST

Section 1.2 of [RFC7252]

 only send Echo option values to endpoints it received them from (where, as deﬁned
, the security association is part of the endpoint). In OSCORE

A client
in
processing, that means sending Echo option values from Outer options (or from non-OSCORE
responses) back in Outer options and sending those from Inner options in Inner options in the
same security context.

Upon receiving a request with the Echo option, the server determines if the request is required to
be fresh. If not, the Echo option
server cannot verify the freshness of the request in some other way, the server
option to verify that the request is fresh. If the server cannot verify that the request is fresh, the
request is not processed further, and an error message
SHOULD
include a new Echo option.

 be ignored. If the request is required to be fresh and the

 be sent. The error message

 use the Echo

MUST

MAY

MAY

One way for the server to verify freshness is to bind the Echo option value to a speciﬁc point in
time and verify that the request is not older than a certain threshold T. The server can verify this
by checking that (t1 - t0) < T, where t1 is the request receive time and t0 is the time when the Echo
option value was generated. An example message ﬂow over DTLS is shown Figure 1.

Amsüss, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9175

Echo, Request-Tag, and Token Processing

February 2022

Client   Server
   |       |
   +------>|        Code: 0.03 (PUT)
   |  PUT  |       Token: 0x41
   |       |    Uri-Path: lock
   |       |     Payload: 0 (Unlock)
   |       |
   |<------+        Code: 4.01 (Unauthorized)
   |  4.01 |       Token: 0x41
   |       |        Echo: 0x00000009437468756c687521 (t0 = 9, +MAC)
   |       |
   | ...   | The round trips take 1 second, time is now t1 = 10.
   |       |
   +------>|        Code: 0.03 (PUT)
   |  PUT  |       Token: 0x42
   |       |    Uri-Path: lock
   |       |        Echo: 0x00000009437468756c687521 (t0 = 9, +MAC)
   |       |     Payload: 0 (Unlock)
   |       |
   |       | Verify MAC, compare t1 - t0 = 1 < T => permitted.
   |       |
   |<------+        Code: 2.04 (Changed)
   |  2.04 |       Token: 0x42
   |       |

Figure 1: Example Message Flow for Time-Based Freshness Using the 'Integrity‑Protected
Timestamp' Construction of Appendix A

Another way for the server to verify freshness is to maintain a cache of values associated to
events. The size of the cache is deﬁned by the application. In the following, we assume the cache
size is 1, in which case, freshness is deﬁned as "no new event has taken place". At each event, a
 be diﬀerent or chosen in a way so the
new value is written into the cache. The cache values
probability for collisions is negligible. The server veriﬁes freshness by checking that e0 equals e1,
where e0 is the cached value when the Echo option value was generated, and e1 is the cached
value at the reception of the request. An example message ﬂow over DTLS is shown in Figure 2.

MUST

Amsüss, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9175

Echo, Request-Tag, and Token Processing

February 2022

Client   Server
   |       |
   +------>|        Code: 0.03 (PUT)
   |  PUT  |       Token: 0x41
   |       |    Uri-Path: lock
   |       |     Payload: 0 (Unlock)
   |       |
   |<------+        Code: 4.01 (Unauthorized)
   |  4.01 |       Token: 0x41
   |       |        Echo: 0x05 (e0 = 5, number of total lock
   |       |                            operations performed)
   |       |
   | ...   | No alterations happen to the lock state, e1 has the
   |       | same value e1 = 5.
   |       |
   +------>|        Code: 0.03 (PUT)
   |  PUT  |       Token: 0x42
   |       |    Uri-Path: lock
   |       |        Echo: 0x05
   |       |     Payload: 0 (Unlock)
   |       |
   |       | Compare e1 = e0 => permitted.
   |       |
   |<------+        Code: 2.04 (Changed)
   |  2.04 |       Token: 0x42
   |       |        Echo: 0x06 (e2 = 6, to allow later locking
   |       |                            without more round trips)
   |       |

Figure 2: Example Message Flow for Event-Based Freshness Using the 'Persistent Counter'
Construction of Appendix A

MUST

When used to serve freshness requirements (including client aliveness and state synchronizing),
the Echo option value
DTLS, TLS, or an OSCORE Inner option
claimed network address, the Echo option
the claimed address but
necessitate diﬀerent choices; see Appendix A, item 2 for an example.

 be integrity protected between the intended endpoints, e.g., using
. When used to demonstrate reachability at a

 be unprotected. Combining diﬀerent Echo applications can

 be a Message Authentication Code (MAC) of

[RFC8613]

SHOULD

MAY

MAY

 be sent with a successful response, i.e., even though the request satisﬁed any

An Echo option
freshness requirements on the operation. This is called a "preemptive" Echo option value and is
useful when the server anticipates that the client will need to demonstrate freshness relative to
the current response in the near future.

MAY

 set an Echo option on responses, both on forwarded ones that had no

A CoAP-to-CoAP proxy
Echo option or ones generated by the proxy (from cache or as an error). If it does so, it
remove the Echo option it recognizes as one generated by itself on follow-up requests. When it
 forward it to the client (and, not recognizing it as its
receives an Echo option in a response, it
own in future requests, relay it in the other direction as well) or process it on its own. If it does so,
it
value used to send to the server was ﬁrst seen. (In most cases, this means that the proxy needs to
ask the client to repeat the request with a new Echo option value.)

 ensure that the client's request was generated (or is regenerated) after the Echo option

MUST

MUST

MAY

Amsüss, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9175

Echo, Request-Tag, and Token Processing

February 2022

MAY

 request freshness, especially if they have

The CoAP server side of CoAP-to-HTTP proxies
reason to assume that access may require it (e.g., because it is a PUT or POST); how this is
determined is out of scope for this document. The CoAP client side of HTTP-to-CoAP proxies
respond to Echo challenges itself if the proxy knows from the recent establishing of the
connection that the HTTP request is fresh. Otherwise, it
SHOULD
terminate any underlying Keep-Alive connection. If the HTTP request arrived in early data, the
proxy
other mechanisms to establish freshness of the HTTP request that are not speciﬁed here.

 respond with a 503 (Service Unavailable) with a Retry-After value of 0 seconds and

 use a 425 (Too Early) response instead (see

 repeat an unsafe request and

). The proxy

[RFC8470]

MUST NOT

 also use

SHOULD

MAY

MUST

2.4.  Applications of the Echo Option

Unless otherwise noted, all these applications require a security protocol to be used and the Echo
option to be protected by it.

1.

Actuation requests often require freshness guarantees to avoid accidental or malicious
delayed actuator actions. In general, all unsafe methods (e.g., POST, PUT, and DELETE) may
require freshness guarantees for secure operation.
◦

The same Echo option value may be used for multiple actuation requests to the same
server, as long as the total time since the Echo option value was generated is below the
freshness threshold.

◦

For actuator applications with low delay tolerance, to avoid additional round trips for
multiple requests in rapid sequence, the server may send preemptive Echo option values in
successful requests, irrespectively of whether or not the request contained an Echo option.
The client then uses the Echo option with the new value in the next actuation request, and
the server compares the receive time accordingly.

2.

A server may use the Echo option to synchronize properties (such as state or time) with a
requesting client. A server
 synchronize a property with a client that is not the
authority of the property being synchronized. For example, if access to a server resource is
dependent on time, then the server
access unless the client is a time authority for the server.

 synchronize time with a client requesting

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

Note that the state to be synchronized is not carried inside the Echo option. Any explicit state
information needs to be carried along in the messages the Echo option value is sent in; the
Echo mechanism only provides a partial order on the messages' processing.
◦

If a server reboots during operation, it may need to synchronize state or time before
continuing the interaction. For example, with OSCORE, it is possible to reuse a partly
persistently stored security context by synchronizing the Partial IV (sequence number)
using the Echo option, as speciﬁed in

Section 7.5 of [RFC8613]

.

◦

A device joining a CoAP group communication
[GROUP-OSCORE]
client by using the Echo option in a unicast response to a multicast request. The client
receiving the response with the Echo option includes the Echo option value in a subsequent
unicast request to the responding server.

 may be required to initially synchronize its replay window state with a

 protected with OSCORE

[GROUP-COAP]

Amsüss, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9175

Echo, Request-Tag, and Token Processing

February 2022

3.

SHOULD

 mitigate ampliﬁcation attacks, as described in

Section 11.3 of
. One way to mitigate such attacks is for the server to respond to the alleged source

An attacker can perform a denial-of-service attack by putting a victim's address in the source
address of a CoAP request and sending the request to a resource with a large ampliﬁcation
factor. The ampliﬁcation factor is the ratio between the size of the request and the total size
of the response(s) to that request. A server that provides a large ampliﬁcation factor to an
unauthenticated peer
[RFC7252]
address of the request with an Echo option in a short response message (e.g., 4.01
(Unauthorized)), thereby requesting the client to verify its source address. This needs to be
done only once per endpoint and limits the range of potential victims from the general
Internet to endpoints that have been previously in contact with the server. For this
application, the Echo option can be used in messages that are not integrity protected, for
example, during discovery. (This is formally recommended in Section 2.6.)
◦

In the presence of a proxy, a server will not be able to distinguish diﬀerent origin client
endpoints, i.e., the client from which a request originates. Following from the
recommendation above, a proxy that provides a large ampliﬁcation factor to
unauthenticated peers
Echo option to verify origin reachability, as described in Section 2.3. The proxy
safe requests immediately to have a cached result available when the client's repeated
request arrives.

 mitigate ampliﬁcation attacks. The proxy

 use the
 forward

SHOULD

SHOULD

MAY

◦

Ampliﬁcation mitigation is a trade-oﬀ between giving leverage to an attacker and causing
overhead. An ampliﬁcation factor of 3 (i.e., don't send more than three times the number of
bytes received until the peer's address is conﬁrmed) is considered acceptable for
.
unconstrained applications in
[RFC9000], Section 8

When that limit is applied and no further context is available, a safe default is sending
initial responses no larger than 136 bytes in CoAP serialization. (The number is assuming
Ethernet, IP, and UDP headers of 14, 40, and 8 bytes, respectively, with 4 bytes added for the
CoAP header. Triple that minus the non-CoAP headers gives the 136 bytes.) Given the token
also takes up space in the request, responding with 132 bytes after the token is safe as well.

◦

When an Echo response is sent to mitigate ampliﬁcation, it
or Non-conﬁrmable response, never as a separate one (which would cause ampliﬁcation
due to retransmission).

 be sent as a piggybacked

MUST

4.

A server may want to use the request freshness provided by the Echo option to verify the
aliveness of a client. Note that, in a deployment with hop-by-hop security and proxies, the
server can only verify aliveness of the closest proxy.

2.5.  Characterization of Echo Applications

Use cases for the Echo option can be characterized by several criteria that help determine the
required properties of the Echo option value. These criteria apply both to those listed in Section 2.4
and any novel applications. They provide rationale for the statements in the former and
guidance for the latter.

Amsüss, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9175

Echo, Request-Tag, and Token Processing

February 2022

2.5.1.  Time-Based versus Event-Based Freshness

The property a client demonstrates by sending an Echo option value is that the request was sent
after a certain point in time or after some event happened on the server.

When events are counted, they form something that can be used as a monotonic but very non-
uniform time line. With highly regular events and low-resolution time, the distinction between
time-based and event-based freshness can be blurred: "no longer than a month ago" is similar to
"since the last full moon".

In an extreme form of event-based freshness, the server can place an event whenever an Echo
option value is used. This makes the Echo option value eﬀectively single use.

Event-based and time-based freshness can be combined in a single Echo option value, e.g., by
encrypting a timestamp with a key that changes with every event to obtain semantics in the style
of "usable once but only for 5 minutes".

2.5.2.  Authority over Used Information

Information conveyed to the server in the request Echo option value has diﬀerent authority
depending on the application. Understanding who or what is the authoritative source of that
information helps the server implementor decide the necessary protection of the Echo option
value.

If all that is conveyed to the server is information that the client is authorized to provide
arbitrarily (which is another way of saying that the server has to trust the client on whatever the
Echo option is being used for), then the server can issue Echo option values that do not need to be
protected on their own. They still need to be covered by the security protocol that covers the rest
of the message, but the Echo option value can be just short enough to be unique between this
server and client.

For example, the client's OSCORE Sender Sequence Number (as used in
is such information.

)
[RFC8613], Appendix B.1.2

In most other cases, there is information conveyed for which the server is the authority ("the
request must not be older than ﬁve minutes" is counted on the server's clock, not the client's) or
which even involve the network (as when performing ampliﬁcation mitigation). In these cases,
the Echo option value itself needs to be protected against forgery by the client, e.g., by using a
suﬃciently large, random value or a MAC, as described in Appendix A, items 1 and 2.

For some applications, the server may be able to trust the client to also act as the authority (e.g.,
when using time-based freshness purely to mitigate request delay attacks); these need careful
case-by-case evaluation.

Amsüss, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9175

Echo, Request-Tag, and Token Processing

February 2022

To issue Echo option values without integrity protection of its own, the server needs to trust the
client to never produce requests with attacker-controlled Echo option values. The provisions of
Section 2.3 (saying that an Echo option value may only be sent as received from the same server)
allow that. The requirement stated there for the client to treat the Echo option value as opaque
holds for these applications like for all others.

When the client is the sole authority over the synchronized property, the server can still use time
or events to issue new Echo option values. Then, the request's Echo option value not so much
proves the indicated freshness to the server but reﬂects the client's intention to indicate reception
of responses containing that value when sending the later ones.

Note that a single Echo option value can be used for multiple purposes (e.g., to both get the
sequence number information and perform ampliﬁcation mitigation). In this case, the stricter
protection requirements apply.

2.5.3.  Protection by a Security Protocol

For meaningful results, the Echo option needs to be used in combination with a security protocol
in almost all applications.

When the information extracted by the server is only about a part of the system outside of any
security protocol, then the Echo option can also be used without a security protocol (in case of
OSCORE, as an Outer option).

The only known application satisfying this requirement is network address reachability, where
unprotected Echo option values are used both by servers (e.g., during setup of a security context)
and proxies (which do not necessarily have a security association with their clients) for
ampliﬁcation mitigation.

2.6.  Updated Ampliﬁcation Mitigation Requirements for Servers

This section updates the ampliﬁcation mitigation requirements for servers in
recommend the use of the Echo option to mitigate ampliﬁcation attacks. The requirements for
clients are not updated.

 is updated by adding the following text:

Section 11.3 of [RFC7252]

[RFC7252]

 to

SHOULD

A CoAP server
unauthenticated clients with 4.01 (Unauthorized) including an Echo option, as described
in item 3 in Section 2.4 of RFC 9175.

 mitigate potential ampliﬁcation attacks by responding to

Amsüss, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9175

Echo, Request-Tag, and Token Processing

February 2022

3.  Protecting Message Bodies Using Request Tags

3.1.  Fragmented Message Body Integrity

CoAP was designed to work over unreliable transports, such as UDP, and includes a lightweight
reliability feature to handle messages that are lost or arrive out of order. In order for a security
protocol to support CoAP operations over unreliable transports, it must allow out-of-order
delivery of messages.

[RFC7959]

 extends CoAP by deﬁning the transfer of a large

The block-wise transfer mechanism
resource representation (CoAP message body) as a sequence of blocks (CoAP message payloads).
The mechanism uses a pair of CoAP options, Block1 and Block2, pertaining to the request and
response payload, respectively. The block-wise functionality does not support the detection of
interchanged blocks between diﬀerent message bodies to the same resource having the same
block number. This remains true even when CoAP is used together with a security protocol (such
as DTLS or OSCORE) within the replay window
block-wise functionality of CoAP

, which is a vulnerability of the

[COAP-ATTACKS]

[RFC7959]

.

A straightforward mitigation of mixing up blocks from diﬀerent messages is to use unique
identiﬁers for diﬀerent message bodies, which would provide equivalent protection to the case
where the complete body ﬁts into a single payload. The ETag option
, set by the CoAP
server, identiﬁes a response body fragmented using the Block2 option.

[RFC7252]

3.2.  The Request-Tag Option

This document deﬁnes the Request-Tag option for identifying request bodies, similar to ETag, but
ephemeral and set by the CoAP client. The Request-Tag is intended for use as a short-lived
identiﬁer for keeping apart distinct block-wise request operations on one resource from one
client, addressing the issue described in Section 3.1. It enables the receiving server to reliably
assemble request payloads (blocks) to their message bodies and, if it chooses to support it, to
reliably process simultaneous block-wise request operations on a single resource. The requests
must be integrity protected if they should protect against interchange of blocks between diﬀerent
message bodies. The Request-Tag option is mainly used in requests that carry the Block1 option
and in Block2 requests following these.

In essence, it is an implementation of the "proxy-safe elective option" used just to "vary the cache
key", as suggested in

[RFC7959], Section 2.4
.

3.2.1.  Request-Tag Option Format

The Request-Tag option is elective, safe to forward, repeatable, and part of the cache key (see
Table 2, which extends Table 4 of

[RFC7252]

).

Amsüss, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9175

Echo, Request-Tag, and Token Processing

February 2022

No.

C

U N R Name

Format

Length Default

292

x

Request-Tag

opaque

0-8

(none)

Table 2: Request-Tag Option Summary

C=Critical, U=Unsafe, N=NoCacheKey, R=Repeatable

Section 4.1 of [RFC8613]

Request-Tag, like the Block options, is both a class E and a class U option in terms of OSCORE
processing (see
 be an Inner or Outer option. It
inﬂuences the Inner or Outer block operations, respectively. The Inner and Outer values are
therefore independent of each other. The Inner option is encrypted and integrity protected
between the client and server, and it provides message body identiﬁcation in case of end-to-end
fragmentation of requests. The Outer option is visible to proxies and labels message bodies in
case of hop-by-hop fragmentation of requests.

). The Request-Tag

MAY

The Request-Tag option is only used in the request messages of block-wise operations.

The Request-Tag mechanism can be applied independently on the server and client sides of CoAP-
to-CoAP proxies, as are the Block options. However, given it is safe to forward, a proxy is free to
just forward it when processing an operation. CoAP-to-HTTP proxies and HTTP-to-CoAP proxies
can use Request-Tag on their CoAP sides; it is not applicable to HTTP requests.

3.3.  Request-Tag Processing by Servers

The Request-Tag option does not require any particular processing on the server side outside of
the processing already necessary for any unknown elective proxy-safe cache-key option. The
option varies the properties that distinguish block-wise operations (which includes all options
except Block1, Block2, and all operations that are elective NoCacheKey). Thus, the server cannot
treat messages with a diﬀerent list of Request-Tag options as belonging to the same operation.

 discard the Request-Tag option from
To keep utilizing the cache, a server (including proxies)
an assembled block-wise request when consulting its cache, as the option relates to the operation
on the wire and not its semantics. For example, a FETCH request with the same body as an older
one can be served from the cache if the older's Max-Age has not expired yet, even if the second
operation uses a Request-Tag and the ﬁrst did not. (This is similar to the situation about ETag in
that it is formally part of the cache key, but implementations that are aware of its meaning can
cache more eﬃciently (see

[RFC7252], Section 5.4.2

MAY

).

A server receiving a Request-Tag
content or structure.

MUST

 treat it as opaque and make no assumptions about its

Two messages carrying the same Request-Tag is a necessary but not suﬃcient condition for being
part of the same operation. For one, a server may still treat them as independent messages when
it sends 2.01 (Created) and 2.04 (Changed) responses for every block. Also, a client that lost
interest in an old operation but wants to start over can overwrite the server's old state with a new
initial (num=0) Block1 request and the same Request-Tag under some circumstances. Likewise,
that results in the new message not being part of the old operation.

Amsüss, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9175

Echo, Request-Tag, and Token Processing

February 2022

As it has always been, a server that can only serve a limited number of block-wise operations at
the same time can delay the start of the operation by replying with 5.03 (Service Unavailable) and
a Max-Age indicating how long it expects the existing operation to go on, or it can forget about
the state established with the older operation and respond with 4.08 (Request Entity Incomplete)
to later blocks on the ﬁrst operation.

3.4.  Setting the Request-Tag

For each separate block-wise request operation, the client can choose a Request-Tag value or
choose not to set a Request-Tag. It needs to be set to the same value (or unset) in all messages
belonging to the same operation; otherwise, they are treated as separate operations by the server.

Starting a request operation matchable to a previous operation and even using the same Request-
Tag value is called "request tag recycling". The absence of a Request-Tag option is viewed as a
value distinct from all values with a single Request-Tag option set; starting a request operation
matchable to a previous operation where neither has a Request-Tag option therefore constitutes
request tag recycling just as well (also called "recycling the absent option").

Clients that use Request-Tag for a particular purpose (like in Section 3.5)
 recycle a
request tag unless the ﬁrst operation has concluded. What constitutes a concluded operation
depends on the purpose and is deﬁned accordingly; see examples in Section 3.5.

MUST NOT

When Block1 and Block2 are combined in an operation, the Request-Tag of the Block1 phase is set
in the Block2 phase as well; otherwise, the request would have a diﬀerent set of options and would
not be recognized any more.

Clients are encouraged to generate compact messages. This means sending messages without
Request-Tag options whenever possible and using short values when the absent option cannot be
recycled.

Note that Request-Tag options can be present in request messages that carry no Block options
(for example, because a proxy unaware of Request-Tag reassembled them).

The Request-Tag option

MUST NOT

 be present in response messages.

3.5.  Applications of the Request-Tag Option

3.5.1.  Body Integrity Based on Payload Integrity

When a client fragments a request body into multiple message payloads, even if the individual
messages are integrity protected, it is still possible for an attacker to maliciously replace a later
operation's blocks with an earlier operation's blocks (see
Therefore, the integrity protection of each block does not extend to the operation's request body.

Section 2.5 of [COAP-ATTACKS]

).

In order to gain that protection, use the Request-Tag mechanism as follows:

•

The individual exchanges
server.

MUST

 be integrity protected end to end between the client and

Amsüss, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9175

Echo, Request-Tag, and Token Processing

February 2022

•

The client
matchable to the new one has concluded.

MUST NOT

 recycle a request tag in a new operation unless the previous operation

If any future security mechanisms allow a block-wise transfer to continue after an endpoint's
 consider messages matchable
details (like the IP address) have changed, then the client
if they were sent to any endpoint address using the new operation's security context.

MUST

•

MUST NOT

The client
 regard a block-wise request operation as concluded unless all of the
messages the client has sent in the operation would be regarded as invalid by the server if
they were replayed.

When security services are provided by OSCORE, these conﬁrmations typically result either
from the client receiving an OSCORE response message matching the request (an empty
Acknowledgement (ACK) is insuﬃcient) or because the message's sequence number is old
enough to be outside the server's receive window.

When security services are provided by DTLS, this can only be conﬁrmed if there was no
CoAP retransmission of the request, the request was responded to, and the server uses replay
protection.

Authors of other documents (e.g., applications of
subsection's behavior for clients that execute block-wise interactions over secured transports. In
this way, the server can rely on a conforming client to set the Request-Tag option when required
and thereby have conﬁdence in the integrity of the assembled body.

) are invited to mandate this

[RFC8613]

Note that this mechanism is implicitly implemented when the security layer guarantees ordered
delivery (e.g., CoAP over TLS
). This is because, with each message, any earlier message
cannot be replayed any more, so the client never needs to set the Request-Tag option unless it
wants to perform concurrent operations.

[RFC8323]

Body integrity only makes sense in applications that have stateful block-wise transfers. On
applications where all the state is in the application (e.g., because rather than POSTing a large
representation to a collection in a stateful block-wise transfer, a collection item is created ﬁrst,
then written to once and available when written completely), clients need not concern
themselves with body integrity and thus the Request-Tag.

Body integrity is largely independent from replay protection. When no replay protection is
available (it is optional in DTLS), a full block-wise operation may be replayed, but, by adhering to
the above, no operations will be mixed up. The only link between body integrity and replay
protection is that, without replay protection, recycling is not possible.

3.5.2.  Multiple Concurrent Block-Wise Operations

CoAP clients, especially CoAP proxies, may initiate a block-wise request operation to a resource, to
which a previous one is already in progress, which the new request should not cancel. A CoAP
proxy would be in such a situation when it forwards operations with the same cache-key options
but possibly diﬀerent payloads.

For those cases, Request-Tag is the proxy-safe elective option suggested in the last paragraph of
Section 2.4 of [RFC7959]

.

Amsüss, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9175

Echo, Request-Tag, and Token Processing

February 2022

When initializing a new block-wise operation, a client has to look at other active operations:

•

If any of them is matchable to the new one, and the client neither wants to cancel the old one
nor postpone the new one, it can pick a Request-Tag value (including the absent option) that
is not in use by the other matchable operations for the new operation.

•

Otherwise, it can start the new operation without setting the Request-Tag option on it.

3.5.3.  Simpliﬁed Block-Wise Handling for Constrained Proxies

The Block options were deﬁned to be unsafe to forward because a proxy that would forward
blocks as plain messages would risk mixing up clients' requests.

In some cases, for example, when forwarding block-wise request operations, appending a
Request-Tag value unique to the client can satisfy the requirements on the proxy that come from
the presence of a Block option.

This is particularly useful to proxies that strive for stateless operations, as described in
.
Section 4

[RFC8974],

The precise classiﬁcation of cases in which such a Request-Tag option is suﬃcient is not trivial,
especially when both request and response body are fragmented, and is out of scope for this
document.

3.6.  Rationale for the Option Properties

The Request-Tag option can be elective, because to servers unaware of the Request-Tag option,
operations with diﬀering request tags will not be matchable.

The Request-Tag option can be safe to forward but part of the cache key, because proxies unaware
of the Request-Tag option will consider operations with diﬀering request tags unmatchable but
can still forward them.

The Request-Tag option is repeatable because this easily allows several cascaded stateless proxies
to each put in an origin address. They can perform the steps of Section 3.5.3 without the need to
create an option value that is the concatenation of the received option and their own value and
can simply add a new Request-Tag option unconditionally.

In draft versions of this document, the Request-Tag option used to be critical and unsafe to
forward. That design was based on an erroneous understanding of which blocks could be
composed according to

[RFC7959]

.

3.7.  Rationale for Introducing the Option

An alternative that was considered to the Request-Tag option for coping with the problem of
 to say that blocks
fragmented message body integrity (Section 3.5.1) was to update
could only be assembled if their fragments' order corresponded to the sequence numbers.

[RFC7959]

Amsüss, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9175

Echo, Request-Tag, and Token Processing

February 2022

That approach would have been diﬃcult to roll out reliably on DTLS, where many
implementations do not expose sequence numbers, and would still not prevent attacks like in
Section 2.5.2 of [COAP-ATTACKS]

.

3.8.  Block2 and ETag Processing

The same security properties as in Section 3.5.1 can be obtained for block-wise response
operations. The threat model here does not depend on an attacker; a client can construct a
wrong representation by assembling it from blocks from diﬀerent resource states. That can
happen when a resource is modiﬁed during a transfer or when some blocks are still valid in the
client's cache.

Rules stating that response body reassembly is conditional on matching ETag values are already
in place from

Section 2.4 of [RFC7959]

.

To gain protection equivalent to that described in Section 3.5.1, a server
option in conjunction with the ETag option (
ETag value for diﬀerent representations of a resource.

[RFC7252], Section 5.10.6

MUST

 use the Block2

) and

MUST NOT

 use the same

4.  Token Processing for Secure Request-Response Binding

4.1.  Request-Response Binding

A fundamental requirement of secure REST operations is that the client can bind a response to a
particular request. If this is not ensured, a client may erroneously associate the wrong response to
a request. The wrong response may be an old response for the same resource or a response for a
completely diﬀerent resource (e.g., see
the alarm status "GET /status" may be associated to a prior response "on", instead of the correct
response "oﬀ ".

Section 2.3 of [COAP-ATTACKS]

). For example, a request for

In HTTP/1.1, this type of binding is always assured by the ordered and reliable delivery, as well as
mandating that the server sends responses in the same order that the requests were received. The
same is not true for CoAP, where the server (or an attacker) can return responses in any order
and where there can be any number of responses to a request (e.g., see
concurrent requests are diﬀerentiated by their Token. Note that the CoAP Message ID cannot be
used for this purpose since those are typically diﬀerent for the REST request and corresponding
response in case of "separate response" (see

Section 2.2 of [RFC7252]

[RFC7641]

). In CoAP,

).

[RFC7252]

 does not treat the Token as a cryptographically important value and does not

CoAP
give stricter guidelines than that the Tokens currently "in use"
) be unique. If
used with a security protocol not providing bindings between requests and responses (e.g., DTLS
and TLS), Token reuse may result in situations where a client matches a response to the wrong
request. Note that mismatches can also happen for other reasons than a malicious attacker, e.g.,
delayed delivery or a server sending notiﬁcations to an uninterested client.

SHOULD

SHALL

 (not

A straightforward mitigation is to mandate clients to not reuse Tokens until the traﬃc keys have
been replaced. The following section formalizes that.

Amsüss, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9175

Echo, Request-Tag, and Token Processing

February 2022

4.2.  Updated Token Processing Requirements for Clients

As described in Section 4.1, the client must be able to verify that a response corresponds to a
particular request. This section updates the Token processing requirements for clients in
[RFC7252]
REST operations like "coaps". The Token processing for servers is not updated. Token processing
 is updated by adding the following text:
in

 to always assure a cryptographically secure binding of responses to requests for secure

Section 5.3.1 of [RFC7252]

When CoAP is used with a security protocol not providing bindings between requests and
responses, the Tokens have cryptographic importance. The client
Tokens are not used in a way so that responses risk being associated with the wrong
request.

 make sure that

MUST

One easy way to accomplish this is to implement the Token (or part of the Token) as a
sequence number, starting at zero for each new or rekeyed secure connection. This
approach

 be followed.

SHOULD

5.  Security Considerations

The freshness assertion of the Echo option comes from the client reproducing the same value of
the Echo option in a request as it received in a previous response. If the Echo option value is a
large random number, then there is a high probability that the request is generated after having
seen the response. If the Echo option value of the response can be guessed, e.g., if based on a small
random number or a counter (see Appendix A), then it is possible to compose a request with the
right Echo option value ahead of time. Using guessable Echo option values is only permissible in a
narrow set of cases described in Section 2.5.2. Echo option values
such that the risk associated with unintended reuse can be managed.

 be set by the CoAP server

MUST

If uniqueness of the Echo option value is based on randomness, then the availability of a secure
pseudorandom number generator and truly random seeds are essential for the security of the
Echo option. If no true random number generator is available, a truly random seed must be
provided from an external source. As each pseudorandom number must only be used once, an
implementation needs to get a new truly random seed after reboot or continuously store the
state in nonvolatile memory. See
[RFC8613], Appendix B.1.1
to nonvolatile memory.

 for issues and approaches for writing

A single active Echo option value with 64 (pseudo)random bits gives the same theoretical security
level as a 64-bit MAC (as used in, e.g., AES_128_CCM_8). If a random unique Echo option value is
intended, the Echo option value
for any other party than the server. A server
MAY
cases (client aliveness, request freshness, state synchronization, network address reachability,
etc.).

 contain 64 (pseudo)random bits that are not predictable

 use diﬀerent security levels for diﬀerent use

SHOULD

Amsüss, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9175

Echo, Request-Tag, and Token Processing

February 2022

The security provided by the Echo and Request-Tag options depends on the security protocol used.
CoAP and HTTP proxies require (D)TLS to be terminated at the proxies. The proxies are therefore
able to manipulate, inject, delete, or reorder options or packets. The security claims in such
architectures only hold under the assumption that all intermediaries are fully trusted and have
not been compromised.

Echo option values without the protection of randomness or a MAC are limited to cases when the
client is the trusted source of all derived properties (as per Section 2.5.2). Using them needs per-
application consideration of both the impact of a malicious client and of implementation errors
in clients. These Echo option values are the only legitimate case for Echo option values shorter
than four bytes, which are not necessarily secret. They
values in the request are integrity protected, as per Section 2.3.

 be used unless the Echo option

MUST NOT

SHOULD

 use a monotonic clock to generate timestamps and compute round-trip times.

Servers
Use of non-monotonic clocks is not secure, as the server will accept expired Echo option values if
the clock is moved backward. The server will also reject fresh Echo option values if the clock is
moved forward. Non-monotonic clocks
acceptable given the freshness requirements. If the deviations from a monotonic clock are
known, it may be possible to adjust the threshold accordingly.

 be used as long as they have deviations that are

MAY

An attacker may be able to aﬀect the server's system time in various ways, such as setting up a
fake NTP server or broadcasting false time signals to radio-controlled clocks.

For the purpose of generating timestamps for the Echo option, a server
and use the time since reboot, choosing the granularity such that diﬀerent requests arrive at
diﬀerent times. Servers
 generate a random oﬀset
 intermittently reset the timer and
applied to all timestamps. When resetting the timer, the server
that were created before the reset.

MUST

MAY

MAY

MAY

 reject all Echo option values

 set a timer at reboot

Servers that use the "List of Cached Random Values and Timestamps" method described in
Appendix A may be vulnerable to resource exhaustion attacks. One way to minimize the state is
to use the "Integrity-Protected Timestamp" method described in Appendix A.

5.1.  Token Reuse

Reusing Tokens in a way so that responses are guaranteed to not be associated with the wrong
request is not trivial. The server may process requests in any order and send multiple responses to
the same request. An attacker may block, delay, and reorder messages. The use of a sequence
number is therefore recommended when CoAP is used with a security protocol that does not
provide bindings between requests and responses, such as DTLS or TLS.

For a generic response to a Conﬁrmable request over DTLS, binding can only be claimed without
out-of-band knowledge if:

•

the original request was never retransmitted and

•

the response was piggybacked in an Acknowledgement message (as a Conﬁrmable or Non-
conﬁrmable response may have been transmitted multiple times).

Amsüss, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9175

Echo, Request-Tag, and Token Processing

February 2022

If observation was used, the same holds for the registration, all reregistrations, and the
cancellation.

(In addition, for observations, any responses using that Token and a DTLS sequence number
earlier than the cancellation Acknowledgement message need to be discarded. This is typically
not supported in DTLS implementations.)

In some setups, Tokens can be reused without the above constraints, as a diﬀerent component in
the setup provides the associations:

•

In CoAP over TLS, retransmissions are not handled by the CoAP layer and behave like a replay
window size of 1. When a client is sending TLS-protected requests without Observe to a single
server, the client can reuse a Token as soon as the previous response with that Token has
been received.

•

Requests whose responses are cryptographically bound to the requests (like in OSCORE) can
reuse Tokens indeﬁnitely.

In all other cases, a sequence number approach is

RECOMMENDED

, as per Section 4.

Tokens that cannot be reused need to be handled appropriately. This could be solved by
increasing the Token as soon as the currently used Token cannot be reused or by keeping a list of
all Tokens unsuitable for reuse.

When the Token (or part of the Token) contains a sequence number, the encoding of the
sequence number has to be chosen in a way to avoid any collisions. This is especially true when
the Token contains more information than just the sequence number, e.g., the serialized state, as
in

[RFC8974]

.

6.  Privacy Considerations

SHOULD NOT

 put any privacy-sensitive information in the Echo or Request-Tag

Implementations
option values. Unencrypted timestamps could reveal information about the server, such as
location, time since reboot, or that the server will accept expired certiﬁcates. Timestamps
used if the Echo option is encrypted between the client and the server, e.g., in the case of DTLS
without proxies or when using OSCORE with an Inner Echo option.

MAY

 be

MUST NOT

 use the Echo option to correlate requests for other purposes than freshness and

Like HTTP cookies, the Echo option could potentially be abused as a tracking mechanism that
identiﬁes a client across requests. This is especially true for preemptive Echo option values.
Servers
reachability. Clients only send Echo option values to the same server from which the values were
received. Compared to HTTP, CoAP clients are often authenticated and non-mobile, and servers
can therefore often correlate requests based on the security context, the client credentials, or the
network address. Especially when the Echo option increases a server's ability to correlate
requests, clients

 discard all preemptive Echo option values.

MAY

Amsüss, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9175

Echo, Request-Tag, and Token Processing

February 2022

[NUMERIC-IDS]

Publicly visible generated identiﬁers, even when opaque (as all deﬁned in this document are), can
leak information as described in
Request-Tag option should be recycled as much as possible. (That is generally possible as long as a
security mechanism is in place -- even in the case of OSCORE outer block-wise transfers, as the
OSCORE option's variation ensures that no matchable requests are created by diﬀerent clients.)
When an unprotected Echo option is used to demonstrate reachability, the recommended
mechanism of Section 2.3 keeps the eﬀects to a minimum.

. To avoid the eﬀects described there, the absent

7.  IANA Considerations

IANA has added the following option numbers to the "CoAP Option Numbers" registry deﬁned by
[RFC7252]

:

Number Name

Reference

252

292

Echo

RFC 9175

Request-Tag

RFC 9175

Table 3: Additions to CoAP Option
Numbers Registry

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC6347]

[RFC7252]

[RFC7959]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
,
rfc2119>
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

 and

,
Rescorla, E.
,
RFC 6347 DOI 10.17487/RFC6347
.
rfc6347>

,
N. Modadugu "Datagram Transport Layer Security Version 1.2"
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, January 2012,

,
Shelby, Z. Hartke, K.
(CoAP)" RFC 7252 DOI 10.17487/RFC7252
.
info/rfc7252>

, and

,

,

,

C. Bormann "The Constrained Application Protocol

, June 2014,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

 and

,
Bormann, C.
Application Protocol (CoAP)" RFC 7959 DOI 10.17487/RFC7959
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7959>

Z. Shelby, Ed. "Block-Wise Transfers in the Constrained

, August 2016,

,

,

,
,
Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
.
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

Amsüss, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9175

Echo, Request-Tag, and Token Processing

February 2022

[RFC8470]

[RFC8613]

Thomson, M. Nottingham, M.
,
8470 DOI 10.17487/RFC8470
,
rfc8470>
.

, and

W. Tarreau "Using Early Data in HTTP" RFC

,

,

, September 2018,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

Selander, G. Mattsson, J. Palombini, F.
Constrained RESTful Environments (OSCORE)" RFC 8613 DOI 10.17487/RFC8613
,
July 2019,

L. Seitz "Object Security for
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8613>
.

, and

,

,

,

8.2.  Informative References

[COAP-ATTACKS]

,

Preuß Mattsson, J. Fornehed, J. Selander, G. Palombini, F.

,
C. Amsüss
,
"Attacks on the Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP)" Work in Progress
Internet-Draft, draft-mattsson-core-coap-attacks-01
.
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-mattsson-core-coap-attacks-01>

, 27 July 2021,

<https://

, and

,

,

,

[GROUP-COAP]

, and

,
Dijk, E. Wang, C.

M. Tiloca "Group Communication for the Constrained
Application Protocol (CoAP)" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-core-
groupcomm-bis-05
.
ietf-core-groupcomm-bis-05>

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-

, 25 October 2021,

,

,

,

[GROUP-OSCORE]

Tiloca, M. Selander, G. Palombini, F. Preuß Mattsson, J.

,

,

,

, and

,
J. Park "Group

[NUMERIC-IDS]

[REST]

[RFC7641]

[RFC8323]

[RFC8446]

[RFC8974]

,
OSCORE - Secure Group Communication for CoAP" Work in Progress Internet-
Draft, draft-ietf-core-oscore-groupcomm-13
<https://
.
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-core-oscore-groupcomm-13>

, 25 October 2021,

,

,

 and

Gont, F.

,
I. Arce "On the Generation of Transient Numeric Identiﬁers"
Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-irtf-pearg-numeric-ids-generation-08
January 2022,
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-irtf-pearg-numeric-ids-
.
generation-08>

, 31

,

,

Fielding, R. "Architectural Styles and the Design of Network-based Software
Architectures"
.
ﬁelding_dissertation.pdf>

<https://www.ics.uci.edu/~ﬁelding/pubs/dissertation/

, 2000,

,

Hartke, K. "Observing Resources in the Constrained Application Protocol
(CoAP)" RFC 7641 DOI 10.17487/RFC7641
.
editor.org/info/rfc7641>

, September 2015,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

,

,

,

,
Bormann, C. Lemay, S. Tschofenig, H. Hartke, K. Silverajan, B.
B. Raymor,
,
Ed. "CoAP (Constrained Application Protocol) over TCP, TLS, and WebSockets"
,
, February 2018,
RFC 8323 DOI 10.17487/RFC8323
.
rfc8323>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, and

,

,
,
Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>

, August 2018,

,

 and

M. Richardson "Extended Tokens and Stateless Clients in the
Hartke, K.
,
Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP)" RFC 8974 DOI 10.17487/RFC8974
January 2021,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8974>

,

,

,

Amsüss, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9175

Echo, Request-Tag, and Token Processing

February 2022

[RFC9000]

 and

Iyengar, J., Ed.
Transport" RFC 9000 DOI 10.17487/RFC9000
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc9000>
.

M. Thomson, Ed. "QUIC: A UDP-Based Multiplexed and Secure
, May 2021,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Appendix A.  Methods for Generating Echo Option Values

The content and structure of the Echo option value are implementation speciﬁc and determined
by the server. Two simple mechanisms for time-based freshness and one for event-based
freshness are outlined in this appendix. The "List of Cached Random Values and Timestamps"
mechanism is
 in general. The "Integrity-Protected Timestamp" mechanism is
RECOMMENDED

 in case the Echo option is encrypted between the client and the server.

RECOMMENDED

Diﬀerent mechanisms have diﬀerent trade-oﬀs between the size of the Echo option value, the
amount of server state, the amount of computation, and the security properties oﬀered. A server
 use diﬀerent methods and security levels for diﬀerent use cases (client aliveness, request
MAY
freshness, state synchronization, network address reachability, etc.).

1.

List of Cached Random Values and Timestamps. The Echo option value is a (pseudo)random
byte string called r. The server caches a list containing the random byte strings and their
initial transmission times. Assuming 72-bit random values and 32-bit timestamps, the size of
the Echo option value is 9 bytes and the amount of server state is 13n bytes, where n is the
number of active Echo option values. The security against an attacker guessing Echo option
values is given by s = bit length of r - log2(n). The length of r and the maximum allowed n
should be set so that the security level is harmonized with other parts of the deployment, e.g., s
>= 64. If the server loses time continuity, e.g., due to reboot, the entries in the old list
deleted.

MUST

 be

Echo option value:

random value r

Server State:

random value r, timestamp t0

This method is suitable for both time-based and event-based freshness (e.g., by clearing the
cache when an event occurs) and is independent of the client authority.

2.

Integrity-Protected Timestamp. The Echo option value is an integrity-protected timestamp.
The timestamp can have a diﬀerent resolution and range. A 32-bit timestamp can, e.g., give a
resolution of 1 second with a range of 136 years. The (pseudo)random secret key is generated
by the server and not shared with any other party. The use of truncated HMAC-SHA-256 is
. With a 32-bit timestamp and a 64-bit MAC, the size of the Echo option value is
RECOMMENDED
12 bytes, and the server state is small and constant. The security against an attacker guessing
Echo option values is given by the MAC length. If the server loses time continuity, e.g., due to
reboot, the old key
 be deleted and replaced by a new random secret key. Note that the
privacy considerations in Section 6 may apply to the timestamp. Therefore, it might be
important to encrypt it. Depending on the choice of encryption algorithms, this may require
an initialization vector to be included in the Echo option value (see below).

MUST

Echo option value:

timestamp t0, MAC(k, t0)

Server State:

secret key k

Amsüss, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9175

Echo, Request-Tag, and Token Processing

February 2022

This method is suitable for both time-based and event-based freshness (by the server
remembering the time at which the event took place) and independent of the client authority.

If this method is used to additionally obtain network reachability of the client, the server
 use the client's network address too, e.g., as in MAC(k, t0, claimed network address).
MUST

3.

Persistent Counter. This can be used in OSCORE for sequence number recovery, per
B.1.2 of [RFC8613]
. The Echo option value is a simple counter without integrity protection of
its own, serialized in uint format. The counter is incremented in a persistent way every time
Appendix B.1.2 of
the state that needs to be synchronized is changed (in the case described in
[RFC8613]
how such a persistent counter can be implemented eﬃciently is the OSCORE server Sender
Sequence Number mechanism described in

, when a reboot indicates that volatile state may have been lost). An example of

Appendix B.1.1 of [RFC8613]

Appendix

.

Echo option value:

counter

Server State:

counter

This method is suitable only if the client is the authority over the synchronized property.
Consequently, it cannot be used to show client aliveness. It provides statements from the
client similar to event-based freshness (but without a proof of freshness).

Other mechanisms complying with the security and privacy considerations may be used. The use
of encrypted timestamps in the Echo option provides additional protection but typically requires
an initialization vector (a.k.a. nonce) as input to the encryption algorithm, which adds a slight
complication to the procedure as well as overhead.

Appendix B.  Request-Tag Message Size Impact

In absence of concurrent operations, the Request-Tag mechanism for body integrity (Section
3.5.1) incurs no overhead if no messages are lost (more precisely, in OSCORE, if no operations are
aborted due to repeated transmission failure and, in DTLS, if no packets are lost and replay
protection is active) or when block-wise request operations happen rarely (in OSCORE, if there is
always only one request block-wise operation in the replay window).

In those situations, no message has any Request-Tag option set, and the Request-Tag value can be
recycled indeﬁnitely.

When the absence of a Request-Tag option cannot be recycled any more within a security
context, the messages with a present but empty Request-Tag option can be used (1 byte
overhead), and when that is used up, 256 values from 1-byte options (2 bytes overhead) are
available.

In situations where that overhead is unacceptable (e.g., because the payloads are known to be at a
fragmentation threshold), the absent Request-Tag value can be made usable again:

•

In DTLS, a new session can be established.

Amsüss, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9175

Echo, Request-Tag, and Token Processing

February 2022

•

In OSCORE, the sequence number can be artiﬁcially increased so that all lost messages are
outside of the replay window by the time the ﬁrst request of the new operation gets processed,
and all earlier operations can therefore be regarded as concluded.

Acknowledgements

The authors want to thank
Kucherawy Francesca Palombini

,

,
Jim Schaad

, and

Carsten Bormann Roman Danyliw Benjamin Kaduk Murray

,

,

 for providing valuable input to the document.

Authors' Addresses

Christian Amsüss
Email:

 christian@amsuess.com

John Preuß Mattsson
Ericsson AB
Email:

 john.mattsson@ericsson.com

Göran Selander
Ericsson AB
Email:

 goran.selander@ericsson.com

Amsüss, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

