Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9459
Standards Track
September 2023
2070-1721
R. Housley
Vigil Security

H. Tschofenig

RFC 9459
CBOR Object Signing and Encryption (COSE): AES-
CTR and AES-CBC

Abstract

The Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR) data format is designed for small code size and
small message size. CBOR Object Signing and Encryption (COSE) is specified in RFC 9052 to
provide basic security services using the CBOR data format. This document specifies the
conventions for using AES-CTR and AES-CBC as content encryption algorithms with COSE.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9459
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in effect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Housley & Tschofenig

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9459

AES-CTR and AES-CBC with COSE

September 2023

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Conventions and Terminology

3.  AES Modes of Operation

4.  AES Counter Mode

4.1.  AES-CTR COSE Key

4.2.  AES-CTR COSE Algorithm Identifiers

5.  AES Cipher Block Chaining Mode

5.1.  AES-CBC COSE Key

5.2.  AES-CBC COSE Algorithm Identifiers

6.  Implementation Considerations

7.  IANA Considerations

8.  Security Considerations

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

2

3

3

3

4

4

5

5

5

6

6

6

8

8

9

9

10

This document specifies the conventions for using AES-CTR and AES-CBC as content encryption
algorithms with the CBOR Object Signing and Encryption (COSE)
encryption with COSE uses Authenticated Encryption with Associated Data (AEAD) algorithms
[RFC5116]
situations where another mechanism, such as a digital signature, is used to provide integrity. In
these cases, an AEAD algorithm is not needed. The software manifest being defined by the IETF
SUIT WG

, which provide both confidentiality and integrity protection. However, there are

 is one example where a digital signature is always present.

[SUIT-MANIFEST]

 syntax. Today,

[RFC9052]

Housley & Tschofenig

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9459

AES-CTR and AES-CBC with COSE

September 2023

2.  Conventions and Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  AES Modes of Operation

NIST has defined several modes of operation for the Advanced Encryption Standard
[MODES]
. AES supports three key sizes: 128 bits, 192 bits, and 256 bits. AES has a block size of 128
bits (16 octets). Each of these modes has different characteristics. The modes include: CBC (Cipher
Block Chaining), CFB (Cipher FeedBack), OFB (Output FeedBack), and CTR (Counter).

[AES]

Only AES Counter (AES-CTR) mode and AES Cipher Block Chaining (AES-CBC) are discussed in
this document.

4.  AES Counter Mode

When AES-CTR is used as a COSE content encryption algorithm, the encryptor generates a unique
value that is communicated to the decryptor. This value is called an "Initialization Vector" (or
"IV") in this document. The same IV and AES key combination
The encryptor can generate the IV in any manner that ensures the same IV value is not used
more than once with the same AES key.

 be used more than once.

MUST NOT

When using AES-CTR, each AES encrypt operation generates 128 bits of key stream. AES-CTR
encryption is the XOR of the key stream with the plaintext. AES-CTR decryption is the XOR of the
key stream with the ciphertext. If the generated key stream is longer than the plaintext or
ciphertext, the extra key stream bits are simply discarded. For this reason, AES-CTR does not
require the plaintext to be padded to a multiple of the block size.

AES-CTR has many properties that make it an attractive COSE content encryption algorithm. AES-
CTR uses the AES block cipher to create a stream cipher. Data is encrypted and decrypted by
XORing with the key stream produced by AES encrypting sequential IV block values, called
"counter blocks", where:

•
The first block of the key stream is the AES encryption of the IV.
The second block of the key stream is the AES encryption of (IV + 1) mod 2128.
•
The third block of the key stream is the AES encryption of (IV + 2) mod 2128, and so on.
•

AES-CTR is easy to implement, can be pipelined and parallelized, and supports key stream
precomputation. Sending of the IV is the only source of expansion because the plaintext and
ciphertext are the same size.

Housley & Tschofenig

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9459

AES-CTR and AES-CBC with COSE

September 2023

When used correctly, AES-CTR provides a high level of confidentiality. Unfortunately, AES-CTR is
easy to use incorrectly. Being a stream cipher, reuse of the IV with the same key is catastrophic.
An IV collision immediately leaks information about the plaintext. For this reason, it is
inappropriate to use AES-CTR with static keys. Extraordinary measures would be needed to
prevent reuse of an IV value with the static key across power cycles. To be safe, implementations
MUST

 use fresh keys with AES-CTR.

AES-CTR keys may be obtained either from a key structure or from a recipient structure.
Implementations encrypting and decrypting
algorithm are correct and appropriate for the entities involved.

 validate that the key type, key length, and

MUST

With AES-CTR, it is trivial to use a valid ciphertext to forge other (valid to the decryptor)
ciphertexts. Thus, it is equally catastrophic to use AES-CTR without a companion authentication
and integrity mechanism. Implementations
authentication and integrity mechanism, such as a digital signature.

 use AES-CTR in conjunction with an

MUST

The instructions in
provide integrity protection for external additional authenticated data, the decryptor
ensure that no external additional authenticated data was supplied. See Section 6.

 are followed for AES-CTR. Since AES-CTR cannot
MUST

Section 5.4 of [RFC9052]

The 'protected' header

MUST

 be a zero-length byte string.

4.1.  AES-CTR COSE Key

When using a COSE key for the AES-CTR algorithm, the following checks are made:

•

The 'kty' field

MUST

 be present, and it

MUST

 be 'Symmetric'.

•

If the 'alg' field is present, it

MUST

 match the AES-CTR algorithm being used.

•

If the 'key_ops' field is present, it

MUST

 include 'encrypt' when encrypting.

•

If the 'key_ops' field is present, it

MUST

 include 'decrypt' when decrypting.

4.2.  AES-CTR COSE Algorithm Identifiers

The following table defines the COSE AES-CTR algorithm values. Note that these algorithms are
being registered as "Deprecated" to avoid accidental use without a companion integrity
protection mechanism.

Name

Value

Key Size

Description

Recommended

A128CTR

-65534

A192CTR

-65533

A256CTR

-65532

128

192

256

AES-CTR w/ 128-bit key

Deprecated

AES-CTR w/ 192-bit key

Deprecated

AES-CTR w/ 256-bit key

Deprecated

Table 1

Housley & Tschofenig

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9459

AES-CTR and AES-CBC with COSE

September 2023

5.  AES Cipher Block Chaining Mode

AES-CBC mode requires a 16-octet IV. Use of a randomly or pseudorandomly generated IV
ensures that the encryption of the same plaintext will yield different ciphertext.

AES-CBC performs an XOR of the IV with the first plaintext block before it is encrypted. For
successive blocks, AES-CBC performs an XOR of the previous ciphertext block with the current
plaintext before it is encrypted.

AES-CBC requires padding of the plaintext; the padding algorithm specified in
[RFC5652] MUST
decryptor to unambiguously remove the padding.

 be used prior to encrypting the plaintext. This padding algorithm allows the

Section 6.3 of

The simplicity of AES-CBC makes it an attractive COSE content encryption algorithm. The need to
carry an IV and the need for padding lead to an increase in the overhead (when compared to
AES-CTR). AES-CBC is much safer for use with static keys than AES-CTR. That said, as described in
[RFC4107]

, the use of automated key management to generate fresh keys is greatly preferred.

AES-CBC does not provide integrity protection. Thus, an attacker can introduce undetectable
errors if AES-CBC is used without a companion authentication and integrity mechanism.
Implementations
 use AES-CBC in conjunction with an authentication and integrity
MUST
mechanism, such as a digital signature.

The instructions in
provide integrity protection for external additional authenticated data, the decryptor
ensure that no external additional authenticated data was supplied. See Section 6.

 are followed for AES-CBC. Since AES-CBC cannot
MUST

Section 5.4 of [RFC9052]

The 'protected' header

MUST

 be a zero-length byte string.

5.1.  AES-CBC COSE Key

When using a COSE key for the AES-CBC algorithm, the following checks are made:

•

The 'kty' field

MUST

 be present, and it

MUST

 be 'Symmetric'.

•

If the 'alg' field is present, it

MUST

 match the AES-CBC algorithm being used.

•

If the 'key_ops' field is present, it

MUST

 include 'encrypt' when encrypting.

•

If the 'key_ops' field is present, it

MUST

 include 'decrypt' when decrypting.

5.2.  AES-CBC COSE Algorithm Identifiers

The following table defines the COSE AES-CBC algorithm values. Note that these algorithms are
being registered as "Deprecated" to avoid accidental use without a companion integrity
protection mechanism.

Housley & Tschofenig

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9459

AES-CTR and AES-CBC with COSE

September 2023

Name

Value

Key Size

Description

Recommended

A128CBC

-65531

A192CBC

-65530

A256CBC

-65529

128

192

256

AES-CBC w/ 128-bit key

Deprecated

AES-CBC w/ 192-bit key

Deprecated

AES-CBC w/ 256-bit key

Deprecated

Table 2

6.  Implementation Considerations

COSE libraries that support either AES-CTR or AES-CBC and accept Additional Authenticated Data
(AAD) as input
selected. This ensures that a caller does not expect the AAD to be protected when the
cryptographic algorithm is unable to do so.

 return an error if one of these non-AEAD content encryption algorithms is

MUST

7.  IANA Considerations

IANA has registered six COSE algorithm identifiers for AES-CTR and AES-CBC in the "COSE
Algorithms" registry

[IANA-COSE]
.

The information for the six COSE algorithm identifiers is provided in Sections 4.2 and 5.2. Also,
for all six entries, the "Capabilities" column contains "[kty]", the "Change Controller" column
contains "IETF", and the "Reference" column contains a reference to this document.

8.  Security Considerations

This document specifies AES-CTR and AES-CBC for COSE, which are not AEAD ciphers. The use of
the ciphers is limited to special use cases, such as firmware encryption, where integrity and
authentication is provided by another mechanism.

Since AES has a 128-bit block size, regardless of the mode employed, the ciphertext generated by
AES encryption becomes distinguishable from random values after 264 blocks are encrypted with
a single key. Implementations should change the key before reaching this limit.

To avoid cross-protocol concerns, implementations
 use the same keying material with
more than one mode. For example, the same keying material must not be used with AES-CTR and
AES-CBC.

MUST NOT

There are fairly generic precomputation attacks against all block cipher modes that allow a meet-
in-the-middle attack against the key. These attacks require the creation and searching of huge
tables of ciphertext associated with known plaintext and known keys. Assuming that the
memory and processor resources are available for a precomputation attack, then the theoretical
strength of AES-CTR and AES-CBC is limited to 2(n/2) bits, where n is the number of bits in the key.
The use of long keys is the best countermeasure to precomputation attacks.

Housley & Tschofenig

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9459

AES-CTR and AES-CBC with COSE

September 2023

When used properly, AES-CTR mode provides strong confidentiality. Unfortunately, it is very easy
to misuse this counter mode. If counter block values are ever used for more than one plaintext
with the same key, then the same key stream will be used to encrypt both plaintexts, and the
confidentiality guarantees are voided.

What happens if the encryptor XORs the same key stream with two different plaintexts? Suppose
two plaintext octet sequences P1, P2, P3 and Q1, Q2, Q3 are both encrypted with key stream K1,
K2, K3. The two corresponding ciphertexts are:

   (P1 XOR K1), (P2 XOR K2), (P3 XOR K3)

   (Q1 XOR K1), (Q2 XOR K2), (Q3 XOR K3)

If both of these two ciphertext streams are exposed to an attacker, then a catastrophic failure of
confidentiality results, since:

   (P1 XOR K1) XOR (Q1 XOR K1) = P1 XOR Q1
   (P2 XOR K2) XOR (Q2 XOR K2) = P2 XOR Q2
   (P3 XOR K3) XOR (Q3 XOR K3) = P3 XOR Q3

Once the attacker obtains the two plaintexts XORed together, it is relatively straightforward to
separate them. Thus, using any stream cipher, including AES-CTR, to encrypt two plaintexts
under the same key stream leaks the plaintext.

Data forgery is trivial with AES-CTR mode. The demonstration of this attack is similar to the key
stream reuse discussion above. If a known plaintext octet sequence P1, P2, P3 is encrypted with
key stream K1, K2, K3, then the attacker can replace the plaintext with one of its own choosing.
The ciphertext is:

   (P1 XOR K1), (P2 XOR K2), (P3 XOR K3)

The attacker simply XORs a selected sequence Q1, Q2, Q3 with the ciphertext to obtain:

   (Q1 XOR (P1 XOR K1)), (Q2 XOR (P2 XOR K2)), (Q3 XOR (P3 XOR K3))

Which is the same as:

   ((Q1 XOR P1) XOR K1), ((Q2 XOR P2) XOR K2), ((Q3 XOR P3) XOR K3)

Decryption of the attacker-generated ciphertext will yield exactly what the attacker intended:

   (Q1 XOR P1), (Q2 XOR P2), (Q3 XOR P3)

Housley & Tschofenig

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9459

AES-CTR and AES-CBC with COSE

September 2023

AES-CBC does not provide integrity protection. Thus, an attacker can introduce undetectable
errors if AES-CBC is used without a companion authentication mechanism.

If an attacker is able to strip the authentication and integrity mechanism, then the attacker can
replace it with one of their own creation, even without knowing the plaintext. The usual defense
against such an attack is an Authenticated Encryption with Associated Data (AEAD) algorithm
[RFC5116]
provide integrity protection for the 'kid' field to prevent undetected stripping of the
authentication and integrity mechanism; this prevents an attacker from altering the 'kid' to trick
the recipient into using a different key.

. Of course, neither AES-CTR nor AES-CBC is an AEAD. Thus, an implementation should

With AES-CBC mode, implementers should perform integrity checks prior to decryption to avoid
padding oracle vulnerabilities

[Vaudenay]
.

With the assignment of COSE algorithm identifiers for AES-CTR and AES-CBC in the COSE
Algorithms Registry, an attacker can replace the COSE algorithm identifiers with one of these
identifiers. Then, the attacker might be able to manipulate the ciphertext to learn some of the
plaintext or extract the keying material used for authentication and integrity.

[RFC3610]

Since AES-CCM
can switch the algorithm identifier to AES-CTR and then strip the authentication tag to bypass the
authentication and integrity, allowing the attacker to manipulate the ciphertext.

 use AES-CTR for encryption, an attacker

 and AES-GCM

[GCMMODE]

An attacker can switch the algorithm identifier from AES-GCM to AES-CBC, guessing 16 bytes of
plaintext at a time, and see if the recipient accepts the padding. Padding oracle vulnerabilities
are discussed further in

[Vaudenay]
.

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[AES]

[MODES]

[RFC2119]

[RFC4107]

National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) "Advanced Encryption
Standard (AES)" NIST FIPS 197 DOI 10.6028/NIST.FIPS.197-upd1
,
<https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.FIPS.197-upd1>

, May 2023,

,

,

.

,

Dworkin, M. "Recommendation for Block Cipher Modes of Operation: Methods
and Techniques" NIST Special Publication 800-38A DOI 10.6028/NIST.SP.
800-38A

,
, December 2001,

<https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-38A>

,

.

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

 and

Bellovin, S.
BCP 107 RFC 4107 DOI 10.17487/RFC4107
editor.org/info/rfc4107>

,

,

.

R. Housley "Guidelines for Cryptographic Key Management"

,

,

, June 2005,

<https://www.rfc-

Housley & Tschofenig

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9459

AES-CTR and AES-CBC with COSE

September 2023

[RFC5652]

[RFC8174]

[RFC9052]

Housley, R. "Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS)" STD 70 RFC 5652 DOI
10.17487/RFC5652

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5652>

, September 2009,

,

,

,

,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Schaad, J. "CBOR Object Signing and Encryption (COSE): Structures and
<https://
Process" STD 96 RFC 9052 DOI 10.17487/RFC9052
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9052>

, August 2022,

,

,

.

9.2.  Informative References

[GCMMODE]

[IANA-COSE]

[RFC3610]

[RFC5116]

,

Dworkin, M. "Recommendation for Block Cipher Modes of Operation: Galois/
Counter Mode (GCM) and GMAC" NIST Special Publication 800-38D DOI
10.6028/NIST.SP.800-38D
800-38D>

,
, November 2007,

<https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.

,

.

,

IANA "CBOR Object Signing and Encryption (COSE)" <https://www.iana.org/
assignments/cose>

,

.

Whiting, D. Housley, R.
,
, and
3610 DOI 10.17487/RFC3610
,
rfc3610>

.

N. Ferguson "Counter with CBC-MAC (CCM)" RFC
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, September 2003,

,

,

,

McGrew, D. "An Interface and Algorithms for Authenticated Encryption" RFC
5116 DOI 10.17487/RFC5116
,
rfc5116>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, January 2008,

,

.

[SUIT-MANIFEST]

,

Moran, B. Tschofenig, H. Birkholz, H. Zandberg, K.
,

Ø. Rønningstad "A
Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR)-based Serialization Format for the
Software Updates for Internet of Things (SUIT) Manifest" Work in Progress
Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-suit-manifest-22
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-suit-manifest-22>

, 27 February 2023,

<https://

, and

,

,

,

,

.

[Vaudenay]

,

Vaudenay, S. "Security Flaws Induced by CBC Padding -- Applications to SSL,
IPSEC, WTLS..." EUROCRYPT 2002
, 2002,
,
2002/EUROCRYPT/2850/2850.pdf>
.

<https://www.iacr.org/cryptodb/archive/

Acknowledgements

David Brown

 for raising the need for non-AEAD algorithms to support

Many thanks to
encryption within the SUIT manifest. Many thanks to
Preuß Mattsson Laurence Lundblade Paul Wouters Roman Danyliw Sophie Schmieg Stephen
,
Farrell Carsten Bormann Scott Fluhrer Brendan Moran
 for the review and
thoughtful comments.

,
,
John Scudder

Ilari Liusvaara Scott Arciszewski John

, and

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

Housley & Tschofenig

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9459

AES-CTR and AES-CBC with COSE

September 2023

Authors' Addresses

Russ Housley
Vigil Security, LLC
Email:

 housley@vigilsec.com

Hannes Tschofenig
Email:

 hannes.tschofenig@gmx.net

Housley & Tschofenig

Standards Track

Page 10

