Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9749
Standards Track
March 2025
2070-1721
D. Gultsch

RFC 9749
Use of Voluntary Application Server Identification
(VAPID) in JSON Meta Application Protocol (JMAP)
Web Push

Abstract

This document defines a method for JSON Meta Application Protocol (JMAP) servers to advertise
their capability to authenticate Web Push notifications using the Voluntary Application Server
Identification (VAPID) protocol.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9749
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Gultsch

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9749

Use of VAPID in JMAP Web Push

March 2025

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Conventions Used in This Document

3.  Discovering Support for VAPID

4.  Issuing Push Notifications

5.  Key Rotation

6.  Security Considerations

7.  IANA Considerations

7.1.  Registration of the JMAP Capability for VAPID

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

8.2.  Informative References

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

2

2

3

3

3

4

4

4

5

5

5

5

 specifies how clients can subscribe to events using a protocol that is compatible
[RFC8030]

[RFC8620]
JMAP
with Web Push
all push messages using the VAPID protocol
in Web Push terminology) needs the VAPID public key of the application server to pass along to
the push service when retrieving a new endpoint.

. Some push services require that the application server authenticate

. To facilitate that, the client (or user agent

[RFC8292]

2.  Conventions Used in This Document

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

Gultsch

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9749

Use of VAPID in JMAP Web Push

March 2025

3.  Discovering Support for VAPID

The JMAP capabilities object is returned as part of the standard JMAP session object (see
2 of [RFC8620]
urn:ietf:params:jmap:webpush-vapid to the capabilities object. The value of this property is
an object that

). Servers supporting this specification

 contain the following information:

 add a property called

MUST

MUST

Section

applicationServerKey: "String"

The Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm (ECDSA) public key that the push service will
use to authenticate the application server, in its uncompressed form (as described in Section
2.3.3 of
P-256 curve

) and encoded using base64url encoding

. Current systems use the

[RFC7515]

[FIPS186]

[SEC1]

.

Informative Note: The format of the application server key was chosen to ensure
compatibility with the browser API (Section 7.2 of
be directly copied and used without additional transformation. Additionally, as
noted in
, the X9.62 encoding (which is compatible with
SEC1 encoding) simplifies key comparisons and is more compact than alternative
formats.

Section 3.2 of [RFC8292]

), allowing the key to

[PUSH-API]

4.  Issuing Push Notifications

Every time the server sends a push message to a PushSubscription URL, it
the POST request using the protocol outlined in
events and PushVerification notifications. To authenticate the request, the server
JSON Web Token (JWT) signed by the private key corresponding to the application server key.
This application server key
time the PushSubscription was created.

 be the one that was advertised in the capabilities object at the

. This includes both StateChange

 authenticate

[RFC8292]

 use a

MUST

MUST

MUST

5.  Key Rotation

When a server needs to replace its VAPID key, it
The client
recreate its push subscription when it detects such a change.

MUST

MUST

 monitor the JMAP session object for changes to the VAPID key and

MUST

 update the sessionState per

[RFC8620]
.

MAY

 continue to send push notifications for existing push

After key rotation, the server
subscriptions using the old application server key for a transitional period. This allows clients
time to recreate their respective push subscriptions. At the end of the transitional period (or
immediately for implementations that do not have one), the server
subscriptions that use the old key.

 destroy push

MUST

Gultsch

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9749

Use of VAPID in JMAP Web Push

March 2025

 issue one final StateChange push notification using the old URL and application server key

When destroying push subscriptions that include the data type PushSubscription, the server
MAY
to notify the client of changes to the PushSubscription data type. This prompts the client to
make a PushSubscription/changes method call. The response to this call will contain an
updated sessionState, which refers to a session object that contains the new VAPID key.

A race condition can occur when the server updates its VAPID key after the client has refreshed
the session object but before calling the PushSubscription/set method. This situation causes
the server to send a PushVerification object to a push resource URL that is now associated
with an outdated VAPID key. Consequently, the push service will reject the PushVerification
with a 403 (Forbidden) status code, as specified in

Section 4.2 of [RFC8292]
.

 check if the sessionState in the response from the
To alleviate this problem, the client
PushSubscription/set method points to a session object with an applicationServerKey that
matches their expectations. If there is a mismatch, the client
PushSubscription. Additionally, the client
failed attempt.

 destroy the PushSubscription from the earlier,

 retry creating the

MUST

MAY

MAY

6.  Security Considerations

During the key rotation process, synchronization issues between the client and server may arise.
Specifically, a client might restrict a push subscription with the push service to an outdated key,
while the server sends the PushVerification object authenticated with the newly rotated key.
This mismatch leads to the push service rejecting the PushVerification request with a 403
(Forbidden) status code, as specified in

Section 4.2 of [RFC8292]
.

Per the requirements of
PushVerification request. Consequently, the PushVerification object will not be delivered to
the client.

Section 7.2 of [RFC8620]

 retry the rejected

, the server

MUST NOT

To mitigate such issues, the client is responsible for detecting and resolving any synchronization
discrepancies, as outlined in Section 5 of this document.

The inclusion of the urn:ietf:params:jmap:webpush-vapid property in the JMAP capabilities
object is limited to providing information about the server's support for VAPID. This property
does not reveal sensitive information, nor does it introduce new security or privacy risks
beyond those inherent to JMAP and Web Push. The security considerations for JMAP
(especially Sections 8.6 and 8.7), Web Push
document.

 apply to this

, and VAPID

[RFC8292]

[RFC8030]

[RFC8620]

7.  IANA Considerations

7.1.  Registration of the JMAP Capability for VAPID

IANA has registered the following new capability in the "JMAP Capabilities" registry:

Gultsch

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9749

Use of VAPID in JMAP Web Push

March 2025

urn:ietf:params:jmap:webpush-vapid

Capability Name:
Intended Use:
Change Controller:
Security and Privacy Considerations:
RFC 9749
Reference:

common
IETF

RFC 9749, Section 6

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

[FIPS186]

[SEC1]

[RFC8620]

[RFC8030]

[RFC8292]

[RFC2119]

[RFC8174]

[RFC7515]

NIST "Digital Signature Standard (DSS)" NIST FIPS 186-5 DOI 10.6028/NIST.FIPS.
,
,
186-5
, February 2023,

<https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.FIPS.186-5>

.

,

Standards for Efficient Cryptography Group "SEC 1: Elliptic Curve
Cryptography" Version 2.0
, May 2009,

<http://www.secg.org/sec1-v2.pdf>

,

,

.

Jenkins, N.
,
 and
8620 DOI 10.17487/RFC8620
,
rfc8620>

.

C. Newman "The JSON Meta Application Protocol (JMAP)" RFC

,

, July 2019,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

Thomson, M. Damaggio, E.
,
HTTP Push" RFC 8030 DOI 10.17487/RFC8030
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc8030>

, and

.

B. Raymor, Ed. "Generic Event Delivery Using

,

, December 2016,

<https://www.rfc-

 and

Thomson, M.
(VAPID) for Web Push" RFC 8292 DOI 10.17487/RFC8292
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8292>

P. Beverloo "Voluntary Application Server Identification
, November 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Jones, M. Bradley, J.
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC7515

N. Sakimura "JSON Web Signature (JWS)" RFC 7515
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7515>

, May 2015,

,

,

, and

,

8.2.  Informative References

[PUSH-API]

Beverloo, P., Ed. Thomson, M., Ed.
,
Working Draft

, September 2024,

, and

M. Caceres, Ed. "Push API" W3C
,

,
<https://www.w3.org/TR/push-api/>

.

Author's Address

Daniel Gultsch
Email:

daniel@gultsch.de

Gultsch

Standards Track

Page 5

