Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9589
6488
Standards Track
May 2024
2070-1721
J. Snijders
Fastly

T. Harrison
APNIC

RFC 9589
On the Use of the Cryptographic Message Syntax
(CMS) Signing-Time Attribute in Resource Public Key
Infrastructure (RPKI) Signed Objects

Abstract

In the Resource Public Key Infrastructure (RPKI), Signed Objects are defined as Cryptographic
Message Syntax (CMS) protected content types. A Signed Object contains a signing-time attribute,
representing the purported time at which the object was signed by its issuer. RPKI repositories
are accessible using the rsync and RPKI Repository Delta protocols, allowing Relying Parties (RPs)
to synchronize a local copy of the RPKI repository used for validation with the remote
repositories. This document describes how the CMS signing-time attribute can be used to avoid
needless retransfers of data when switching between different synchronization protocols. This
document updates RFC 6488 by mandating the presence of the CMS signing-time attribute and
disallowing the use of the binary-signing-time attribute.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9589
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Snijders & Harrison

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9589

RPKI CMS Signing-Time

May 2024

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

2.  Optimized Switchover from RRDP to rsync

2.1.  Guidance for Repository Operators

2.2.  Guidance for Relying Parties

3.  Presence of the CMS Signing-Time Attribute in Public Repositories

4.  Updates to RFC 6488

5.  Security Considerations

6.  IANA Considerations

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

2

3

3

4

4

4

5

7

7

7

7

8

8

8

In the Resource Public Key Infrastructure (RPKI)
Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS)
standard template
representing the time at which the object was signed by its issuer. At the time when the standard
template was defined, rsync was the only distribution mechanism for RPKI repositories.

, Signed Objects are defined as
 protected content types by way of a

. That template includes an optional CMS signing-time attribute,

[RFC6480]
[RFC5652] [RFC6268]

[RFC6488]

Since the publication of the standard template, a new, additional protocol for distribution of RPKI
repositories has been developed: the RPKI Repository Delta Protocol (RRDP)
RPKI repository operators must provide rsync service, RRDP is typically deployed alongside it as
well, and is preferred by default by most Relying Party (RP) implementations. However, RP

[RFC8182]

. While

Snijders & Harrison

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9589

RPKI CMS Signing-Time

May 2024

implementations also support fallback to rsync in the event of problems with the RRDP service.
As deployment experience with RRDP has increased, the usefulness of optimizing switchovers by
RPs from one mechanism to the other has become apparent.

This document describes how Repository Operators
time attribute to minimize the burden of switching over from RRDP to rsync. Additionally, this
document updates
 by mandating the presence of the CMS signing-time attribute and
disallowing the use of the binary-signing-time attribute.

 and RPs can use the CMS signing-

[RFC6481]

[RFC6488]

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Optimized Switchover from RRDP to rsync

To avoid needless retransfers of unchanged files in consecutive rsync synchronizations,
PUB-SERV]
When the content of a file is unchanged, Repository Operators
modification timestamp of the file remains unchanged as well.

 recommends the use of so-called 'deterministic' (normalized) timestamps for files.

 ensure that the last

SHOULD

[RPKI-

This document advances the aforementioned concept by describing a synchronization strategy
through which needless transfers are also avoided upon first use of rsync, by leveraging data
previously fetched via RRDP.

At the time of writing, all commonly used RP implementations will first attempt synchronization
via RRDP, as described in
(e.g., malformed XML, expired TLS certificate, HTTP connection timeout), the RP will attempt to
synchronize via rsync instead.

. If synchronization via RRDP fails for some reason

[RPKI-REP-REQS]

[rsync]

In the rsync synchronization protocol, a file's last modification timestamp ('mod-time' from here
on) and file size are used to determine whether the general-purpose rsync synchronization
algorithm needs to be executed for the file. This is the default mode for both the original rsync
implementation
. If the sender's copy of
the file and the receiver's copy of the file both have the same mod-time and file size, the files are
assumed to contain the same content, and they will be omitted from the list of files to be
transferred. Ensuring consistency with respect to mod-time for both senders and receivers helps
to reduce the burden of rsync synchronization in terms of network bandwidth, disk I/O
operations, and CPU usage.

 and the OpenBSD implementation

[openrsync]

In order to reduce the burden of the rsync synchronization (following an RRDP failure),
Repository Operators and RPs

 adhere to the following guidelines.

SHOULD

Snijders & Harrison

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9589

RPKI CMS Signing-Time

May 2024

2.1.  Guidance for Repository Operators

When serializing RPKI Signed Objects to a filesystem hierarchy for publication via rsync, the
mod-time of the file containing the Signed Object
time attribute contained within the Signed Object.

 be set to the value of the CMS signing-

SHOULD

2.2.  Guidance for Relying Parties

When serializing RPKI Signed Objects retrieved via RRDP to a filesystem hierarchy, the mod-time
of the file containing the Signed Object
attribute contained within the Signed Object.

 be set to the value of the CMS signing-time

SHOULD

If an RP uses RRDP to synthesize a filesystem hierarchy for the repository, then synchronizing to
the corresponding directory directly is an option. Alternatively, the RP can synchronize to a new
(empty) directory using the --compare-dest=DIR rsync feature, in order to avoid retrieving files
that are already available by way of the synthesized filesystem hierarchy stemming from
previous RRDP fetches. The DIR component is to be substituted with the name of the directory
containing previously fetched and validated RPKI data (in its original DER-encoded form, to
ensure the file size parameter matches).

From the

[rsync]

 man page for --compare-dest=DIR:

This option instructs rsync to use DIR on the destination machine as an additional
hierarchy to compare destination files against doing transfers (if the files are missing in
the destination directory). If a file is found in DIR that is identical to the sender's file, the
file will NOT be transferred to the destination directory. This is useful for creating a
sparse backup of just files that have changed from an earlier backup.

From the

[openrsync]

 man page for --compare-dest=directory:

Use directory as an alternate base directory to compare files against on the destination
machine. If file in directory is found and identical to the sender's file, the file will not
be transferred.

3.  Presence of the CMS Signing-Time Attribute in Public
Repositories

[rpkiviews]

Analyzing the
five Regional Internet Registry (RIR) Trust Anchors (TAs) from 6 June 2022 to 29 January 2024,
each Signed Object contained a CMS signing-time attribute.

 archives containing millions of RPKI Signed Objects discovered via the

Snijders & Harrison

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9589

RPKI CMS Signing-Time

May 2024

The above means that all of the commonly used TAs and their subordinate Certification
Authorities (CAs) produce Signed Objects that contain a CMS signing-time attribute. This means
that making the CMS signing-time attribute mandatory would not cause any existing commonly
used TA or CA to become non-compliant.

As of 29 January 2024, for 83.8% of Signed Objects, the CMS signing-time timestamp matches the
file's mod-time observed via rsync. This means that it is already the case that RPs would see a
significant reduction in the amount of processing required in rsync if they adopted the strategy
outlined in Section 2.2.

In the above-mentioned period of time, no Signed Objects were discovered with a CMS binary-
signing-time
 attribute in the specified repositories. Therefore, disallowing the use of
the CMS binary-signing-time attribute would not cause any existing commonly used TA or CA to
become non-compliant.

[RFC6019]

4.  Updates to RFC 6488

This section updates
disallow the presence of the CMS binary-signing-time attribute.

[RFC6488]

 to make the CMS signing-time attribute mandatory and to

•

In Section 2.1.6.4, this paragraph is replaced as follows.

OLD

The signedAttrs element
message-digest attributes
attribute
Other signed attributes

[RFC5652]

MUST
[RFC5652]

 be present and

MUST

. The signer

MAY

 include the content- type and
 also include the signing-time

, the binary-signing-time attribute

[RFC6019]

, or both attributes.

MUST NOT

 be included.

NEW

The signedAttrs element
message-digest, and signing-time attributes
NOT

 be included.

 be present and

MUST

MUST
[RFC5652]

 include the content-type,

. Other signed attributes

MUST

•

In Section 2.1.6.4.3, the first sentence is replaced as follows.

OLD

The signing-time attribute

MAY

 be present.

NEW

Snijders & Harrison

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9589

RPKI CMS Signing-Time

May 2024

The signing-time attribute

MUST

 be present.

•

In Section 2.1.6.4.3, the sentence "Note that the presence or absence of the signing-time
attribute
 affect the validity of the signed object (as specified in Section 3)." is
removed.

MUST NOT

•

Section 2.1.6.4.4 is removed in its entirety.

•

In Section 3, item 1.f is replaced as follows.

OLD

f.

The signedAttrs field in the SignerInfo object is present and contains both the
content-type attribute (OID 1.2.840.113549.1.9.3) and the message-digest attribute
(OID 1.2.840.113549.1.9.4).

NEW

f.

The signedAttrs field in the SignerInfo object is present and contains the content-
type attribute (OID 1.2.840.113549.1.9.3), the message-digest attribute (OID
1.2.840.113549.1.9.4), and the signing-time attribute (1.2.840.113549.1.9.5).

•

In Section 3, item 1.g is replaced as follows.

OLD

g.

The signedAttrs field in the SignerInfo object does not contain any attributes other
than the following four: the content-type attribute (OID 1.2.840.113549.1.9.3), the
message-digest attribute (OID 1.2.840.113549.1.9.4), the signing-time attribute (OID
1.2.840.113549.1.9.5), and the binary-signing-time attribute (OID
1.2.840.113549.1.9.16.2.46). Note that the signing-time and binary-signing-time
attributes

 be present, but they are not required.

MAY

NEW

g.

The signedAttrs field in the SignerInfo object does not contain any attributes other
than the following three: the content-type attribute (OID 1.2.840.113549.1.9.3), the
message-digest attribute (OID 1.2.840.113549.1.9.4), and the signing-time attribute
(OID 1.2.840.113549.1.9.5).

•

In Section

9 (Informative References) [RFC6019]

,

 is removed from the list.

Snijders & Harrison

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9589

RPKI CMS Signing-Time

May 2024

5.  Security Considerations

No requirement is imposed concerning the correctness of the signing time attribute. It does not
provide reliable information on the time the signature was produced and it bears no relevance
for seamless switchover between RRDP and rsync.

Although the Security Considerations in
signing-time attributes (if both present)
chance that an object will have values for these attributes that do not represent the same date
and time. Restricting the RPKI Signed Object profile to a single field for storing the signing time
removes any potential for ambiguity.

 provide the same date and time, there is still a

 mandate that the signing-time and binary-

[RFC6019]
MUST

6.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[openrsync]

[RFC2119]

[RFC5652]

[RFC6268]

[RFC6480]

[RFC6481]

[RFC6488]

"openrsync"

, 2023,

<https://www.openrsync.org/>

.

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Housley, R. "Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS)" STD 70 RFC 5652 DOI
10.17487/RFC5652

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5652>

, September 2009,

,

,

,

,

.

,

 and

S. Turner "Additional New ASN.1 Modules for the Cryptographic

Schaad, J.
Message Syntax (CMS) and the Public Key Infrastructure Using X.509 (PKIX)"
,
RFC 6268 DOI 10.17487/RFC6268
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, July 2011,
rfc6268>

,
.

 and

Lepinski, M.
RFC 6480 DOI 10.17487/RFC6480
info/rfc6480>

,

,

.

S. Kent "An Infrastructure to Support Secure Internet Routing"
,

, February 2012,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

Huston, G. Loomans, R.
,
Repository Structure" RFC 6481 DOI 10.17487/RFC6481
,
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6481>

, and

.

G. Michaelson "A Profile for Resource Certificate

,

, February 2012,

<https://

,

Lepinski, M. Chi, A.
,
Public Key Infrastructure (RPKI)" RFC 6488 DOI 10.17487/RFC6488
,
2012,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6488>

S. Kent "Signed Object Template for the Resource

, and

,

.

, February

Snijders & Harrison

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9589

RPKI CMS Signing-Time

May 2024

[RFC8174]

[RFC8182]

[rsync]

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Bruijnzeels, T. Muravskiy, O. Weber, B.
,
Delta Protocol (RRDP)" RFC 8182 DOI 10.17487/RFC8182
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8182>
.

, and

,

,

R. Austein "The RPKI Repository
, July 2017,

<https://

"rsync"

, 2024,

<https://rsync.samba.org/>

.

7.2.  Informative References

[RFC6019]

,

Housley, R. "BinaryTime: An Alternate Format for Representing Date and Time
in ASN.1" RFC 6019 DOI 10.17487/RFC6019
<https://www.rfc-
editor.org/info/rfc6019>

, September 2010,

,

,

.

[RPKI-PUB-SERV]

,

Bruijnzeels, T. de Kock, T. Hill, F.

T. Harrison "RPKI Publication Server
, and
Best Current Practices" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-timbru-sidrops-
,
publication-server-bcp-02
html/draft-timbru-sidrops-publication-server-bcp-02>

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/

, 18 January 2024,

,

,

,

.

[RPKI-REP-REQS]

,

Bruijnzeels, T. Bush, R.

Infrastructure (RPKI) Repository Requirements" Work in Progress Internet-
Draft, draft-ietf-sidrops-prefer-rrdp-02
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-sidrops-prefer-rrdp-02>

G. Michaelson "Resource Public Key
,
<https://
.

,
, 23 December 2022,

, and

,

[rpkiviews]

"rpkiviews" <https://www.rpkiviews.org/>

,

.

Acknowledgements

The authors would like to thank
Zaheduzzaman Sarker Éric Vyncke Mahesh Jethanandani
review of this document.

,

,

,

,
, and

Ties de Kock Niels Bakker Mikael Abrahamsson Russ Housley

Roman Danyliw

,
,
, for their helpful

Authors' Addresses

Job Snijders
Fastly
Amsterdam
The Netherlands
Email:

 job@fastly.com

Snijders & Harrison

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9589

RPKI CMS Signing-Time

May 2024

Tom Harrison
Asia Pacific Network Information Centre
6 Cordelia St
South Brisbane QLD 4101
Australia
Email:

 tomh@apnic.net

Snijders & Harrison

Standards Track

Page 9

