Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9866
Standards Track
October 2025
2070-1721
K. Iwanicki
University of Warsaw

RFC 9866
Root Node Failure Detector (RNFD): Fast Detection
of Border Router Crashes in the Routing Protocol for
Low-Power and Lossy Networks (RPL)

Abstract

By and large, correct operation of a network running the Routing Protocol for Low-Power and
Lossy Networks (RPL) requires border routers to be up. In many applications, it is beneficial for
the nodes to detect a failure of a border router as soon as possible to trigger fallback actions.
This document specifies the Root Node Failure Detector (RNFD), an extension to RPL that
expedites detection of border router crashes by having nodes collaboratively monitor the status
of a given border router. The extension introduces an additional state at each node, a new type
of RPL Control Message Option for synchronizing this state among different nodes, and the
coordination algorithm itself.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9866
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Iwanicki

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9866

RNFD

October 2025

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Effects of LBR Crashes

1.2.  Design Principles

1.3.  Other Solutions

2.  Terminology

3.  Overview

3.1.  Protocol State Machine

3.2.  Counters and Communication

4.  The RNFD Option

4.1.  General CFRC Requirements

4.2.  Format of the Option

5.  RPL Router Behavior

5.1.  Joining a DODAG Version and Changing the RNFD Role

5.2.  Detecting and Verifying Problems with the DODAG Root

5.3.  Disseminating Observations and Reaching Agreement

5.4.  DODAG Root's Behavior

5.5.  Activating and Deactivating the Protocol on Demand

5.6.  Processing CFRCs of Incompatible Lengths

5.7.  Summary of RNFD's Interactions with RPL

5.8.  Summary of RNFD's Constants

6.  Manageability Considerations

6.1.  Role Assignment and CFRC Size Adjustment

6.2.  Virtual DODAG Roots

6.3.  Monitoring

3

4

5

5

5

6

7

8

9

9

10

12

12

12

14

15

15

16

17

17

18

18

19

19

Iwanicki

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9866

RNFD

October 2025

7.  Security Considerations

8.  IANA Considerations

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

20

20

20

20

21

22

22

RPL is an IPv6 routing protocol for Low-Power and Lossy Networks (LLNs)
. Such
networks are usually constrained in device energy and channel capacity. They are formed
largely of nodes that offer little processing power and memory, and links that are of variable
qualities and support low data rates. Therefore, a significant challenge that a routing protocol
for LLNs has to address is minimizing resource consumption without sacrificing reaction time to
network changes.

[RFC6550]

One of the main design principles adopted in RPL to minimize node resource consumption is
delegating much of the responsibility for routing to LLN Border Routers (LBRs). A network is
organized into Destination-Oriented Directed Acyclic Graphs (DODAGs), each corresponding to
an LBR and having all its paths terminate at the LBR. To this end, every node is dynamically
assigned a Rank representing its distance to a given LBR, measured in some metric, with the LBR
having the minimal Rank, which reflects its role as the DODAG root. The Ranks allow each non-
LBR node to select from among its neighbors (i.e., nodes to which the node has links) those that
are closer to the LBR than the node itself (i.e., the node's parents in the graph). The resulting
DODAG paths, consisting of the node-parent links, are utilized for routing packets upward to the
LBR and outside the LLN. They are also used by nodes to periodically report their connectivity
upward to the LBR, which allows for directing packets downward from the LBR to these nodes
). All in all, not only do LBRs participate in routing,
(e.g., by means of source routing
but they also drive the process of DODAG construction and maintenance underlying the protocol.

[RFC6554]

To play this central role, LBRs are expected to be more capable than regular LLN nodes. They are
assumed not to be constrained in computing power, memory, and energy, which often entails a
more involved hardware-software architecture and tethered power supply. However, this also
makes them prone to failures, especially since it is often difficult to ensure a backup power
supply for every LBR in large deployments.

Iwanicki

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9866

RNFD

October 2025

1.1.  Effects of LBR Crashes

When an LBR crashes, or more generally, fails in a way that prevents other nodes in its DODAG
from communicating with it, the nodes also lose the ability to communicate with other Internet
hosts. In addition, a significant fraction of DODAG paths interconnecting the nodes become
invalid, as they pass through the dead LBR. The others also degenerate as a result of DODAG
repair attempts, which are bound to fail. In effect, routing inside the DODAG also becomes
largely impossible. Consequently, it is desirable that an LBR crash be detected by the nodes fast,
so that they can leave the broken DODAG and join another one or trigger additional application-
or deployment-dependent fallback mechanisms, thereby minimizing the negative impact of the
disconnection.

Since all DODAG paths lead to the corresponding LBR, detecting its crash by a node entails
dropping all parents and adopting an infinite Rank, which reflects the node's inability to reach
the dead LBR. Depending on the deployment settings, the node can then remain in such a state,
join a different DODAG, or even become the root of a floating DODAG. In any case, however,
achieving this state for all nodes is slow, can generate heavy traffic, and is difficult to implement
correctly

[Iwanicki16] [Paszkowska19] [Ciolkosz19]
.

To start with, tearing down all DODAG paths requires each of the dead LBR's neighbors to detect
that its link with the LBR is no longer up. Otherwise, any of the neighbors unaware of this fact
can keep advertising a finite Rank and can thus be other nodes' parent or ancestor in the
DODAG; such nodes will incorrectly believe they have a valid path to the dead LBR. Detecting a
crash of a link by a node normally happens when the node has observed a sufficient number of
forwarding failures over the link. Therefore, considering the low-data-rate applications of LLNs,
the period from the crash to the moment of eliminating the last link to the dead LBR from the
DODAG may be long. Subsequently, learning by all nodes that none of their links can form any
path leading to the dead LBR also adds latency, partly due to parent changes that the nodes
independently perform in attempts to repair their broken paths locally. Since a non-LBR node
has only local knowledge of the network, potentially inconsistent with that of other nodes, such
parent changes often produce paths containing loops, which have to be broken before all nodes
can conclude that no path to the dead LBR exists globally. Even with RPL's dedicated loop
detection mechanisms
parent or discovering a loop can also generate cascaded bursts of control traffic, owing to the
adaptive Trickle algorithm for exchanging DODAG information
. Overall, the behavior
of the network when handling an LBR crash is highly suboptimal, thereby not being in line with
RPL's goals of minimizing resource consumption and reaction latencies.

, this also requires traffic and hence time. Finally, switching a

[RFC6206]

[RFC6553]

Iwanicki

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9866

RNFD

October 2025

1.2.  Design Principles

To address this issue, this document proposes an extension to RPL, dubbed the "Root Node
Failure Detector (RNFD)". To minimize the time and traffic required to handle an LBR crash, the
RNFD algorithm adopts the following design principles, derived directly from the previous
observations:

1.

Explicitly coordinating LBR monitoring between nodes instead of relying only on the
emergent behavior resulting from their independent operation.

2.

Avoiding probing all links to the dead LBR so as to reduce the tail latency when eliminating
these links from the DODAG.

3.

Exploiting concurrency by prompting proactive checking for a possible LBR crash when
some nodes suspect such a failure may have taken place, which aims to further reduce the
overall latency.

4.

Minimizing changes to RPL's existing algorithms by operating in parallel and largely
independently (in the background) and by introducing few additional assumptions.

While these principles do improve RPL's performance under a wide range of LBR crashes, their
probabilistic nature precludes hard guarantees for all possible corner cases. In particular, in
some scenarios, RNFD's operation may result in false negatives, but these situations are peculiar
and will eventually be handled by RPL's own aforementioned mechanisms. Likewise, in some
scenarios, notably involving highly unstable links, false positives may occur, but they can be
alleviated as well. In any case, the principles also guarantee that RNFD can be deactivated at any
time if needed, in which case RPL's operation is unaffected.

1.3.  Other Solutions

Given the consequences of LBR failures, it is also worth considering other solutions to the
problem. More specifically, power outages can be alleviated by provisioning redundant power
sources or emergency batteries. Likewise, RPL's so-called virtual DODAG roots can help tolerate
some failures of individual LBRs.

As mentioned previously, RNFD has been designed to be largely independent of those solutions;
that is, rather than aiming to be their replacement, RNFD can complement them. In particular,
the operation of RNFD with different variants of virtual DODAG roots is covered in Section 6.2.

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

Iwanicki

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9866

RNFD

October 2025

The terminology used in this document is consistent with and incorporates that described in
"Terms Used in Routing for Low-Power and Lossy Networks"
Protocol for Low-Power and Lossy Networks"
Power and Lossy Networks (RPL) Option for Carrying RPL Information in Data-Plane Datagrams"
[RFC6553]
Networks"

. Other terms used in LLNs can be found in "Terminology for Constrained-Node
[RFC7228]
.

, and "The Routing Protocol for Low-

, "RPL: IPv6 Routing

[RFC6550]

[RFC7102]

In particular, the following acronyms appear in the document:

DIO:

DODAG Information Object (a RPL message)

DIS:

DODAG Information Solicitation (a RPL message)

DODAG:

Destination-Oriented Directed Acyclic Graph

LLN:

Low-Power and Lossy Network

LBR:

LLN Border Router

In addition, the document introduces the following concepts:

Sentinel:

One of the two roles that a node can play in RNFD. For a given DODAG Version, a

Sentinel node is a DODAG root's neighbor that monitors the DODAG root's status. There are
normally multiple Sentinels for a DODAG root. However, being the DODAG root's neighbor
need not imply being a Sentinel.

Acceptor:

The other of the two roles that a node can play in RNFD. For a given DODAG Version,

an Acceptor node is a node that is not a Sentinel.

Locally Observed DODAG Root's State (LORS):

A node's local knowledge of the DODAG root's

status, specifying in particular whether the DODAG root is up.

Conflict-Free Replicated Counter (CFRC):

Conceptually represents a dynamic set whose

cardinality can be estimated. It defines a partial order on its values and supports element
addition and union. The union operation is order- and duplicate-insensitive, that is,
idempotent, commutative, and associative.

3.  Overview

As mentioned previously, LBRs are DODAG roots in RPL; hence, a crash of an LBR is global in that
it affects all nodes in the corresponding DODAG. Therefore, each node running RNFD for a given
DODAG explicitly tracks the DODAG root's current condition, which is referred to as Locally
Observed DODAG Root's State (LORS), and synchronizes its local knowledge with other nodes.

Since monitoring the condition of the DODAG root is performed by tracking the status of its links
(i.e., whether they are up or down), it can only be done by the root's neighbors; other nodes must
accept their observations. Consequently, depending on their roles, non-root nodes are divided in
RNFD into two disjoint groups: Sentinels and Acceptors. A Sentinel node is a DODAG root's

Iwanicki

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9866

RNFD

October 2025

neighbor that monitors its link with the root. Thus, the DODAG root normally has multiple
Sentinels, but being its neighbor need not imply being a Sentinel. An Acceptor node is a node
that is not a Sentinel. Acceptors thus mainly collect and propagate Sentinels' observations. More
information on Sentinel selection can be found in Section 6.1.

3.1.  Protocol State Machine

The possible values of LORS and transitions between them are depicted in Figure 1. States "UP"
and "GLOBALLY DOWN" can be attained by both Sentinels and Acceptors; states "SUSPECTED
DOWN" and "LOCALLY DOWN" can be attained by Sentinels only.

  +---------------------------------------------------------+
  |                      |---------------------------+   3a |
  |    +-----------------+---------+              3b |      |
  |    | 2b              |         v                 v      v
+-+----+-+   1 +---------+-+     +-----------+     +-+------+-+
|   UP   +---->+ SUSPECTED +---->+  LOCALLY  +---->+ GLOBALLY |
|        +<----+    DOWN   | 2a  |    DOWN   | 3c  |   DOWN   |
+-+----+-+  4a +-----------+     +-+---------+     +-+--------+
  ^    ^                           |                 |
  |    |                        4b |                 |
  |    +---------------------------+               5 |
  +--------------------------------------------------+

Figure 1: RNFD States and Transitions

To begin with, when any node joins a DODAG Version, the DODAG root must appear alive, so the
node initializes RNFD with its LORS equal to "UP". For a properly working DODAG root, the node
remains in state "UP".

However, when a node acting as a Sentinel starts suspecting that the root may have crashed, it
changes its LORS to "SUSPECTED DOWN" (transition 1 in Figure 1). The transition from "UP" to
"SUSPECTED DOWN" can happen based on the node's observations at either the data plane (e.g.,
link-layer triggers about missing hop-by-hop acknowledgments for packets forwarded over the
node's link to the root) or at the control plane (e.g., a significant growth in the number of
Sentinels already suspecting the root to be dead). In state "SUSPECTED DOWN", the Sentinel
node may verify its suspicion and/or inform other nodes about the suspicion. When this has
been done, it changes its LORS to "LOCALLY DOWN" (transition 2a). In some cases, the
verification need not be performed, and as an optimization, a direct transition from "UP" to
"LOCALLY DOWN" (transition 2b) can be done instead.

If a sufficient number of Sentinels have their LORS equal to "LOCALLY DOWN", all nodes
(Sentinels and Acceptors) consent globally that the DODAG root must have crashed and set their
LORS to "GLOBALLY DOWN", irrespective of the previous value (transitions 3a, 3b, and 3c). State
"GLOBALLY DOWN" is terminal in that the only transition any node can perform from this to
another state (transition 5) takes place when the node joins a new DODAG Version. When a node
is in state "GLOBALLY DOWN", RNFD forces RPL to maintain an infinite Rank and no parent,

Iwanicki

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9866

RNFD

October 2025

thereby preventing routing packets upward in the DODAG. In other words, this state represents
a situation in which all non-root nodes agree that the current DODAG Version is unusable;
hence, to recover, the root has to give a proof of being alive by initiating a new DODAG Version.

In contrast, if a node (either a Sentinel or Acceptor) is in state "UP", RNFD does not influence
RPL's packet forwarding; a node can route packets upward if it has a parent. The same is true for
states "SUSPECTED DOWN" and "LOCALLY DOWN", attainable only by Sentinels. Finally, while in
any of the two states, a Sentinel node may observe some activity of the DODAG root and hence
decide that its suspicion is a mistake. In such a case, it returns to state "UP" (transitions 4a and
4b).

3.2.  Counters and Communication

To enable arriving at a global conclusion that the DODAG root has crashed (i.e., transiting to state
"GLOBALLY DOWN"), all nodes count locally and synchronize among each other the number of
Sentinels considering the root to be dead (i.e., those in state "LOCALLY DOWN"). This process
employs structures referred to as Conflict-Free Replicated Counters (CFRCs). They are stored and
modified independently by each node and are disseminated throughout the network in options
added to RPL link-local control messages: DODAG Information Objects (DIOs) and DODAG
Information Solicitations (DISs). Upon reception of such an option from its neighbor, a node
merges the received counter with its local one, thereby obtaining a new content for its local
counter.

The merging operation is idempotent, commutative, and associative. Moreover, all possible
counter values are partially ordered. This enables ensuring eventual consistency of the counters
across all nodes, irrespective of the particular sequence of merges, shape of the DODAG, or
general network topology. In effect, as long as the network is connected, all nodes will be able to
arrive at the same conclusion regarding the DODAG root, in particular when no two Sentinels
have a direct link with each other.

Each node in RNFD maintains two CFRCs for a DODAG:

PositiveCFRC:

Counts Sentinels that consider or have previously considered the root node as

alive in the current DODAG Version.

NegativeCFRC:

Counts Sentinels that consider or have previously considered the root node as

dead in the current DODAG Version.

The PositiveCFRC is always greater than or equal to the NegativeCFRC in terms of the partial
order defined for the counters. The difference between the value of the PositiveCFRC and the
value of the NegativeCFRC is thus nonnegative and estimates the number of Sentinels that still
consider the DODAG root node as alive.

Iwanicki

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9866

RNFD

October 2025

4.  The RNFD Option

RNFD state synchronization between nodes takes place through the RNFD Option. It is a new
type of RPL Control Message Option that is carried in link-local RPL control messages, notably
DIOs and DISs. Its main task is allowing the receivers to merge their two CFRCs with the sender's
CFRCs.

4.1.  General CFRC Requirements

CFRCs in RNFD

MUST

 support the following operations:

value(c)

Returns a nonnegative integer value corresponding to the number of nodes counted by a
given CFRC, c.

zero()

Returns a CFRC that counts no nodes, that is, has its value equal to 0.

self()

Returns a CFRC that counts only the node executing the operation.

infinity()

Returns a CFRC that counts all possible nodes and represents a special value, infinity.

merge(c1, c2)

Returns a CFRC that is a union of c1 and c2 (i.e., counts all nodes that are counted by either
c1, c2, or both c1 and c2).

compare(c1, c2)

Returns the result of comparing c1 to c2.

saturated(c)

Returns TRUE if a given CFRC, c, is saturated (i.e., no more new nodes should be counted by
it); returns FALSE otherwise.

The partial ordering of CFRCs implies that the result of compare(c1, c2) can be either:

•

smaller, if c1 is ordered before c2 (i.e., c2 counts all nodes that c1 counts and at least one
node that c1 does not count);

•

greater, if c1 is ordered after c2 (i.e., c1 counts all nodes that c2 counts and at least one node
that c2 does not count);

•

equal, if c1 and c2 are the same (i.e., they count the same nodes); or

•

incomparable, otherwise.

In particular, zero() is smaller than all other values, and infinity() is greater than any other value.

Iwanicki

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9866

RNFD

October 2025

The properties of merging can be formalized as follows for any c1, c2, and c3:

•

idempotence: c1 = merge(c1, c1);

•

commutativity: merge(c1, c2) = merge(c2, c1); and

•

associativity: merge(c1, merge(c2, c3)) = merge(merge(c1, c2), c3).

In particular, merge(c, zero()) always equals c, while merge(c, infinity()) always equals infinity().

There are many algorithmic structures that can provide the aforementioned properties of CFRC.
Although in principle RNFD does not rely on any specific one, the option adopts so-called linear
counting

[Whang90]
.

4.2.  Format of the Option

The format of the RNFD Option conforms to the generic format of RPL Control Message Options
(see

Section 6.7.1 of [RFC6550]

):

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |  Type = 0x0E  | Option Length |                               |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+                               +
  |                                                               |
  +                                                               +
  |               PosCFRC, NegCFRC (Variable Length*)             |
  .                                                               .
  .                                                               .
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 2: Format of the RNFD Option

The "*" denotes that, if present, the fields have equal lengths.

Option Type:

0x0E

Option Length:

8-bit unsigned integer. Denotes the length of the option in octets, excluding the

Option Type and Option Length fields. Its value
is disabled in the current DODAG Version.

MUST

 be even. A value of 0 denotes that RNFD

PosCFRC, NegCFRC:

Two variable-length, octet-aligned bit arrays carrying the sender's

PositiveCFRC and NegativeCFRC, respectively.

The length of the arrays constituting the PosCFRC and NegCFRC fields is the same and is derived
from Option Length as follows. The value of Option Length is divided by 2 to obtain the number
of octets each of the two arrays occupies. The resulting number of octets is multiplied by 8,
which yields an upper bound on the number of bits in each array. As the actual bit length of

Iwanicki

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9866

RNFD

October 2025

each of the arrays, the largest prime number less than the upper bound is assumed. For
example, if the value of Option Length is 16, then each array occupies 8 octets, and its actual bit
length is 61, as this is the largest prime number less than 64.

Furthermore, for any bit equal to 1 in the NegCFRC, the bit with the same index
equal to 1 in the PosCFRC. Any unused bits (i.e., the bits beyond the actual bit length of each of
the arrays)
MUST
also have all its bits equal to 1.

 be equal to 0. Finally, if PosCFRC has all its bits equal to 1, then NegCFRC

 also be

MUST

MUST

The CFRC operations are defined for such bit arrays of a given length as follows:

value(c)

Returns the smallest integer value not less than -LT*ln(L0/LT), where ln() is the natural
logarithm function, L0 is the number of bits equal to 0 in the array corresponding to c, and LT
is the bit length of the array.

zero()

Returns an array with all bits equal to 0.

self()

Returns an array with a single bit, selected uniformly at random, equal to 1.

infinity()

Returns an array with all bits equal to 1.

merge(c1, c2)

Returns a bit array that constitutes a bitwise OR of c1 and c2. That is, a bit in the resulting
array is equal to 0 only if the same bit is equal to 0 in both c1 and c2.

compare(c1, c2)
Returns:

•

equal, if each bit of c1 is equal to the corresponding bit of c2;

•

less, if c1 and c2 are not equal, and for each bit equal to 1 in c1, the corresponding bit in
c2 is also equal to 1;

•

greater, if c1 and c2 are not equal, and for each bit equal to 1 in c2, the corresponding bit
in c1 is also equal to 1; or

•

incomparable, otherwise.

saturated(c)

Returns TRUE if more than RNFD_CFRC_SATURATION_THRESHOLD of the bits in c are equal
to 1; returns FALSE otherwise.

Iwanicki

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9866

RNFD

October 2025

5.  RPL Router Behavior

Although RNFD operates largely independently of RPL, it does need to interact with RPL and the
overall protocol stack. These interactions are described next and can be realized, for instance, by
means of event triggers.

5.1.  Joining a DODAG Version and Changing the RNFD Role

Whenever RPL is running at a node and joins a DODAG Version, RNFD (if active)
the role of Acceptor for the node. Accordingly, it
and NegativeCFRC to zero().

 assume
 set its LORS to "UP" and its PositiveCFRC

MUST

MUST

The role may then change between Acceptor and Sentinel at any time. However, while a switch
from Sentinel to Acceptor has no preconditions, in order for a switch from Acceptor to Sentinel
to be possible, all of the following conditions
MUST

 hold:

1.

LORS is "UP";

2.

saturated(PositiveCFRC) is FALSE;

3.

a neighbor entry for the DODAG root is present in RPL's DODAG parent set; and

4.

the neighbor is considered reachable via its link-local IPv6 address.

A role change also requires appropriate updates to LORS and CFRCs, so that the node is properly
accounted for. More specifically, when changing its role from Acceptor to Sentinel, the node
MUST
and it
contrast, the effects of a switch from Sentinel to Acceptor vary depending on the node's value of
LORS before the switch:

MUST
 replace its PositiveCFRC, denoted oldpc, with newpc = merge(oldpc, selfc). In

 add itself to its PositiveCFRC as follows. It
MUST

 generate a new CFRC value, selfc = self(),

•

For "GLOBALLY DOWN", the node
NegativeCFRC.

MUST NOT

 modify its LORS, PositiveCFRC, and

•

For "LOCALLY DOWN", the node
PositiveCFRC and NegativeCFRC.

MUST

 set its LORS to "UP" but

MUST NOT

 modify its

•

For "UP" and "SUSPECTED DOWN", the node
its PositiveCFRC, but the node
NegativeCFRC, denoted oldnc, with newnc = merge(oldnc, selfc), where selfc is the counter
generated with self() when the node last added itself to its PositiveCFRC.

 add itself to NegativeCFRC, by replacing its

 set its LORS to "UP" and

MUST NOT

MUST

MUST

 modify

5.2.  Detecting and Verifying Problems with the DODAG Root

Only nodes that are Sentinels take an active part in detecting crashes of the DODAG root;
Acceptors just disseminate their observations, reflected in the CFRCs.

The DODAG root monitoring
CFRCs and LORS, and external inputs, such as triggers from RPL and other protocols. External
input monitoring

 be performed preferably in a reactive fashion, also independently of

 be based on both internal inputs, notably the values of

SHOULD

SHOULD

Iwanicki

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9866

RNFD

October 2025

[RFC5184]

[RFC4861]

 that RNFD

RECOMMENDED

 or the Neighbor Unreachability

 mechanism. In addition, depending on the underlying protocol stack, there

RPL, and at both the data plane and control plane. In particular, it is
be directly notified of events relevant to the routing adjacency maintenance mechanisms on
which RPL relies, such as Layer 2 (L2) triggers
Detection
may be other potential sources of such events, for instance, neighbor communication
overhearing. In any case, only events concerning the DODAG root need to be monitored. For
example, RNFD can conclude that there may be problems with the DODAG root if it observes a
lack of multiple consecutive L2 acknowledgments for packets transmitted by the node via the
link to the DODAG root. Internally, in turn, it is
there is a change to its local CFRCs, so that a node can have a chance to participate in detecting
potential problems even when normally it would not exchange packets over the link with the
DODAG root during some period. In particular, RNFD
problems with the DODAG root when the fraction value(NegativeCFRC)/value(PositiveCFRC) has
grown by at least RNFD_SUSPICION_GROWTH_THRESHOLD since the node last set its LORS to
"UP".

 that RNFD take action whenever

 conclude that there may be

RECOMMENDED

SHOULD

Whenever, having its LORS set to "UP", RNFD concludes (based on either external or internal
inputs) that there may be problems with the link with the DODAG root, it
either to "SUSPECTED DOWN" or, as an optimization, to "LOCALLY DOWN".

 set its LORS

MUST

MUST

 set its LORS to either "UP", if the link has been

The "SUSPECTED DOWN" value of LORS is temporary: its aim is to give RNFD an additional
opportunity to verify whether the link with the DODAG root is indeed down. Depending on the
outcome of such verification, RNFD
confirmed not to be down, or "LOCALLY DOWN", otherwise. The verification can be performed,
for example, by transmitting RPL DIS or ICMPv6 Echo Request messages to the DODAG root's
link-local IPv6 address and expecting replies confirming that the root is up and reachable
through the link. Care should be taken not to overload the DODAG root with traffic due to
simultaneous probes, for instance, random backoffs can be employed to this end. It is
RECOMMENDED
place if RNFD's conclusion on the state of the DODAG root is based only on indirect observations,
for example, the aforementioned growth of the CFRC values. In contrast, for direct observations,
such as missing L2 acknowledgments, the verification
effectively changing from "UP" directly to "LOCALLY DOWN".

 that the "SUSPECTED DOWN" value of LORS be attained and verification take

 be skipped, with the node's LORS

MAY

For consistency with RPL, when detecting potential problems with the DODAG root, RNFD also
must make use of RPL's independent knowledge. More specifically, a node
from "UP" or "SUSPECTED DOWN" directly to "LOCALLY DOWN" if a neighbor entry for the
DODAG root is removed from RPL's DODAG parent set or the neighbor ceases to be considered
reachable via its link-local IPv6 address.

 switch its LORS

MUST

Finally, while having its LORS already equal to "LOCALLY DOWN", a node may make an
observation confirming that its link with the DODAG root is actually up. In such a case, it
set its LORS back to "UP" but
necessary for a node to change its role from Acceptor to Sentinel, all hold.

 do this before conditions 2-4 in Section 5.1, which are

MUST NOT

SHOULD

Iwanicki

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9866

RNFD

October 2025

To appropriately account for the node's observations on the state of the DODAG root, the
aforementioned LORS transitions are accompanied by changes to the node's local CFRCs as
follows. Transitions between "UP" and "SUSPECTED DOWN" do not affect either of the two
CFRCs. In contrast, during a switch from "UP" or "SUSPECTED DOWN" to "LOCALLY DOWN", the
node
transition from "LOCALLY DOWN" to "UP", the node
explained previously.

 add itself to its NegativeCFRC, as explained previously. By symmetry, if there is a

 add itself to its PositiveCFRC, as

MUST

MUST

Such changes to a node's local CFRCs, if performed repeatedly due to incorrect decisions
regarding the status of the node's link with the DODAG root, may lead to those CFRCs becoming
saturated. An implementation should thus try to minimize false-positive transitions from "UP"
and "SUSPECTED DOWN" to "LOCALLY DOWN". The exact approach depends on the specific
solutions employed for assessing the state of a link. For instance, one can utilize additional
mechanisms for increasing the confidence of individual decisions, such as during the
aforementioned verification in the "SUSPECTED DOWN" state, or can limit the number of
transitions per node, possibly in an adaptive fashion.

5.3.  Disseminating Observations and Reaching Agreement

Nodes disseminate their observations by exchanging CFRCs in the RNFD Options embedded in
link-local RPL control messages, notably DIOs and DISs. When processing such a received option,
a node (acting as a Sentinel or Acceptor)
newpc = merge(oldpc, recvpc) and newnc = merge(oldnc, recvnc), respectively. Here, oldpc and
oldnc are the values of the node's PositiveCFRC and NegativeCFRC before the update, while
recvpc and recvnc are the received values of option fields PosCFRC and NegCFRC, respectively.

 update its PositiveCFRC and NegativeCFRC to

MUST

In effect, the node's value of the fraction value(NegativeCFRC)/value(PositiveCFRC) may change.
If the fraction reaches at least RNFD_CONSENSUS_THRESHOLD (with value(PositiveCFRC) being
greater than zero), then the node consents on the DODAG root being down. Accordingly, it
MUST
change its LORS to "GLOBALLY DOWN" and set its PositiveCFRC and NegativeCFRC both to
infinity().

The "GLOBALLY DOWN" value of LORS is terminal; the node
MUST NOT
modify its CFRCs until it joins a new DODAG Version. With this value of LORS, RNFD at the node
MUST
INFINITE_RANK.

 also prevent RPL from having any DODAG parent and advertising any Rank other than

 change it and

MUST NOT

. It is

[RFC6206]

RECOMMENDED

Since the RNFD Option is embedded, among others, in RPL DIO control messages, updates to a
node's CFRCs may affect the sending schedule of these messages, which is driven by the DIO
Trickle timer
different from RPL's original DIO Trickle timer. In such a setting, whenever the dedicated timer
fires and no DIO message containing the RNFD Option has been sent to the link-local all-RPL-
nodes multicast IPv6 address since the previous firing, the node sends a DIO message containing
the RNFD Option to the address. The minimal and maximal interval sizes of the dedicated timer
SHOULD NOT
absence of the dedicated Trickle timer for RNFD, an implementation
RNFD Option is present in multicast DIO messages sufficiently often to quickly propagate

 be smaller than those of RPL's original DIO Trickle timer. In contrast, in the

 to use a dedicated Trickle timer for RNFD that is

 ensure that the

SHOULD

Iwanicki

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9866

RNFD

October 2025

changes to the node's CFRCs and, notably, as soon as possible after a reset of the timer triggered
by RNFD. In the remainder of this document, we will refer to the Trickle timer utilized by RNFD
(either the dedicated one or RPL's original one, depending on the implementation) simply as
"Trickle timer". In particular, a node
 reset its Trickle timer when it changes its LORS to
"GLOBALLY DOWN", so that information about the detected crash of the DODAG root is
disseminated in the DODAG fast. Likewise, a node
local CFRCs change significantly.

 reset its Trickle timer when any of its

SHOULD

MUST

5.4.  DODAG Root's Behavior

The DODAG root node
role. It

MUST

MUST

 assume the role of Acceptor in RNFD and

MUST NOT

 ever switch this

 also monitor its LORS and local CFRCs, so that it can react to various events.

MUST

To start with, the DODAG root
protocol, if it changes its LORS to "GLOBALLY DOWN", which may happen when the root has
restarted after a crash or the nodes have falsely detected its crash. It
DODAG Version if the fraction value(NegativeCFRC)/value(PositiveCFRC) approaches
RNFD_CONSENSUS_THRESHOLD, so as to avoid potential interruptions to routing.

 generate a new DODAG Version, thereby restarting the

 also generate a new

MAY

 either generate a new DODAG Version or increase the bit
Furthermore, the DODAG root
length of its CFRCs if saturated(PositiveCFRC) becomes TRUE. This is a self-regulation mechanism
that helps adjust the CFRCs to a potentially large number of Sentinels (see Section 6.1).

SHOULD

In general, issuing a new DODAG Version effectively restarts RNFD. Thus, the DODAG root
also perform this operation in other situations.

MAY

5.5.  Activating and Deactivating the Protocol on Demand

RNFD can be activated and deactivated on demand, once per DODAG Version. The particular
policies for activating and deactivating the protocol are outside the scope of this document.
However, the activation and deactivation
MUST
MUST

 be done at the DODAG root node; other nodes

 comply.

MUST NOT

 activate the protocol unless it receives for this DODAG Version a

More specifically, when a non-root node joins a DODAG Version, RNFD at the node is initially
inactive. The node
valid RNFD Option containing some CFRCs, that is, having its Option Length field positive. In
particular, if the option accompanies the message that causes the node to join the DODAG
Version, the protocol
 be active from the moment of the joining. RNFD then remains active
at the node until it is explicitly deactivated or the node joins a new DODAG Version. An explicit
 take place when the node receives an RNFD Option for the DODAG Version
deactivation
with no CFRCs, that is, having its Option Length field equal to zero. When explicitly deactivated,
RNFD
 be reactivated unless the node joins a new DODAG Version. In particular, when
the first RNFD Option received by the node has its Option Length field equal to zero, the protocol
 remain deactivated for the entire time the node belongs to the current DODAG Version.
MUST

MUST NOT

MUST

MUST

Iwanicki

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9866

RNFD

October 2025

MUST NOT

 attach any
When RNFD at a node is initially inactive for a DODAG Version, the node
RNFD Option to the messages it sends (in particular, because it may not know the desired CFRC
 also
length; see Section 5.6). When the protocol has been explicitly deactivated, the node
decide not to attach the option to its outgoing messages. However, it is
 that it
send a sufficient number of messages with the option to the link-local all-RPL-nodes multicast
IPv6 address to allow its neighbors to learn that RNFD has been deactivated in the current
DODAG Version. In particular, it
reactive mechanisms. For example, it might reply with a unicast DIO or DIS containing the RNFD
Option with no CFRCs to a message from a neighbor that contains the option with some CFRCs,
as such a neighbor appears not to have learned about the deactivation of RNFD.

 reset its Trickle timer to this end but

 also use some

RECOMMENDED

MAY

MAY

MAY

5.6.  Processing CFRCs of Incompatible Lengths

The merge() and compare() operations on CFRCs require both arguments to be compatible, that
is, to have the same bit length. However, the processing rules for the RNFD Option (see Section
4.2) do not necessitate this. This fact is made use of not only in the mechanisms for activating
and deactivating the protocol (see Section 5.5), but also in mechanisms for dynamic adjustments
of CFRCs, which aim to enable deployment-specific policies (see Section 6.1). A node thus must be
prepared to receive the RNFD Option with fields PosCFRC and NegCFRC of a different bit length
than the node's own PositiveCFRC and NegativeCFRC. Assuming that it has RNFD active and that
 react as follows.
fields PosCFRC and NegCFRC in the option have a positive length, the node

MUST

If the bit length of fields PosCFRC and NegCFRC is the same as that of the node's local
PositiveCFRC and NegativeCFRC, then the node
(see Section 5.3).

MUST

 perform the merges, as detailed previously

If the bit length of fields PosCFRC and NegCFRC is smaller than that of the node's local
PositiveCFRC and NegativeCFRC, then the node
timer.

 ignore the option and

MUST

MAY

 reset its Trickle

If the bit length of fields PosCFRC and NegCFRC is greater than that of the node's local
PositiveCFRC and NegativeCFRC, then the node
be equal to that in the option and set the CFRCs as follows:

 extend the bit length of its local CFRCs to

MUST

•

If the node's LORS is "GLOBALLY DOWN", then both of its local CFRCs
infinity().

MUST

 be set to

•

MUST

 be set to zero(), and the node

Otherwise, they both
initialized CFRCs. More specifically, if the node is a Sentinel, then it
 add itself to its
PositiveCFRC, as detailed previously. In addition, if its LORS is "LOCALLY DOWN", then it
 also add itself to its NegativeCFRC, as explained previously. Finally, the node
MUST
MUST
perform merges of its local CFRCs and the ones received in the option (see Section 5.3) and
MAY

 account for itself in so

 reset its Trickle timer.

MUST

MUST

In contrast, if the node is unable to extend its local CFRCs, for example, because it lacks
resources, then it
MUST NOT

 ignore this option in received messages.

 stop participating in RNFD. That is, until it joins a new DODAG Version, it

 send the RNFD Option and

MUST

MUST

Iwanicki

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9866

RNFD

October 2025

SHOULD

MUST NOT
 return an error to the requester instead. Otherwise,

A DODAG root node can be requested to increase the bit length of its CFRCs externally, as part of
the management policies (see Section 6.1). If it cannot fulfill such a request, then it
stop participating in RNFD and
since it is always an Acceptor, the above rules require it to extend both CFRCs to the requested
length and to set them both to either zero() or infinity(), depending on whether its LORS is
different from or equal to "GLOBALLY DOWN", respectively. In the latter case, given the earlier
rules governing the root's behavior upon reaching the "GLOBALLY DOWN" state (cf. Section 5.4),
the root is also bound to eventually set its CFRCs to zero() and, in addition, generate a new
DODAG Version and change its LORS back to "UP". Therefore, these two steps can be optimized
into one, meaning that effectively, irrespective of its LORS, when increasing the bit length of its
CFRCs in response to an external request, the root also sets the CFRCs to zero().

5.7.  Summary of RNFD's Interactions with RPL

In summary, RNFD interacts with RPL in the following manner:

•

While having its LORS equal to "GLOBALLY DOWN", RNFD prevents RPL from routing
packets and advertising upward routes in the corresponding DODAG (see Section 5.3).

•

In some scenarios, RNFD triggers RPL to issue a new DODAG Version (see Section 5.4).

•

Depending on the implementation, RNFD may cause RPL's DIO Trickle timer resets (see
Sections 5.3, 5.5, and 5.6).

•

RNFD monitors events relevant to routing adjacency maintenance as well as those affecting
RPL's DODAG parent set (see Sections 5.1 and 5.2).

•

Using RNFD entails embedding the RNFD Option into link-local RPL control messages (see
Section 4.2).

5.8.  Summary of RNFD's Constants

The following is a summary of RNFD's constants:

RNFD_CONSENSUS_THRESHOLD:

A threshold concerning the value of the fraction

value(NegativeCFRC)/value(PositiveCFRC). If the value at a Sentinel or Acceptor node reaches
the threshold, then the node's LORS is set to "GLOBALLY DOWN", which implies that
consensus has been reached on the DODAG root node being down (see Section 5.3). The
default value of the threshold is 0.51, which indicates that a majority of Sentinels must
consider the root to be down to reach the consensus. In general, when the value is higher, the
detection period is longer, but the risk of false positives is lower.

RNFD_SUSPICION_GROWTH_THRESHOLD:

A threshold concerning the value of the fraction
value(NegativeCFRC)/value(PositiveCFRC). If the value at a Sentinel node grows at least by
this threshold since the time the node's LORS was last set to "UP", then the node's LORS is set
to "SUSPECTED DOWN" or "LOCALLY DOWN", which implies that the node starts suspecting
or assumes a crash of the DODAG root (see Section 5.2). When the value is higher, the
duration of detecting true crashes is longer, but the risk of increased traffic due to verifying
false suspicions is lower. The default value of the threshold is 0.12, which in sparse networks

Iwanicki

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9866

RNFD

October 2025

(up to 8 neighbors per node) triggers a suspicion at a Sentinel node after just one other
Sentinel starts considering the root as dead, while being gradually more conservative in
denser networks.

RNFD_CFRC_SATURATION_THRESHOLD:

A threshold concerning the percentage of bits set to 1

in a CFRC, c. If the percentage for c is equal to or greater than this threshold, then
saturated(c) returns TRUE, which hints the DODAG root to generate a new DODAG Version or
increase the bit length of the CFRCs (see Section 5.4). The default value of the threshold is
0.63. When the value is higher, the probability of bit collisions is higher, and the results of
function value(c) may thus be more erratic.

The means of configuring the constants at individual nodes are outside the scope of this
document.

6.  Manageability Considerations

RNFD is largely self-managed, with the exception of protocol activation and deactivation, as well
as node role assignment and the related CFRC size adjustment, for which only the
aforementioned mechanisms are defined, so as to enable adopting deployment-specific policies.
This section discusses the manageability issues.

6.1.  Role Assignment and CFRC Size Adjustment

One approach to node role and CFRC size selection is to manually designate specific nodes as
Sentinels in RNFD, assuming that they will have chances to satisfy the necessary conditions for
attaining this role (see Section 5.1), and to fix the CFRC bit length to accommodate these nodes.

Another approach is to automate the selection process. In principle, any node satisfying the
necessary conditions for becoming a Sentinel (see Section 5.1) can attain this role. However, in
networks where the DODAG root node has many neighbors, this approach may lead to
saturated(PositiveCFRC) quickly becoming TRUE, which may degrade RNFD's performance
without additional measures. This issue can be handled with a probabilistic solution: if
PositiveCFRC becomes saturated with little or no increase in NegativeCFRC, then a new DODAG
Version can be issued, and a node satisfying the necessary conditions can become a Sentinel in
this version only with probability 1/2. This process can be continued with the probability being
halved in each new DODAG Version until PositiveCFRC is no longer quickly saturated. Another
solution is to increase, potentially multiple times, the bit length of the CFRCs by the DODAG root
if PositiveCFRC becomes saturated with little or no growth in NegativeCFRC. This does not
require issuing a new DODAG Version but lengthens the RNFD Option. In this way, a sufficient bit
length can be dynamically discovered, or the root can conclude that a given bit length is
excessive for (some) nodes and resort to the previous solution. Increasing the bit length can be
done, for instance, by doubling it, respecting the condition that it has to be a prime number (see
Section 4.2).

Iwanicki

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9866

RNFD

October 2025

In either of the solutions, Sentinel nodes should preferably be stable themselves and have stable
links to the DODAG root. Otherwise, they may often exhibit LORS transitions between "UP" and
"LOCALLY DOWN" or switches between Acceptor and Sentinel roles, which gradually saturates
CFRCs. As a mitigation, the number of such transitions and switches per node
however, having Sentinels be stable

 be preferred.

 be limited;

SHOULD

MAY

6.2.  Virtual DODAG Roots

RPL allows a DODAG to have a so-called "virtual root", that is, a collection of nodes coordinating
to act as a single root of the DODAG. The details of the coordination process are left open in
[RFC6550]
, but from RNFD's perspective, two possible realizations are worth consideration:

•

Just a single (primary) node of the nodes comprising the virtual root acts as the actual root
of the DODAG. Only when this node fails does another (backup) node take over. As a result,
at any time, at most one of the nodes comprising the virtual root is the actual root.

•

More than one of the nodes comprising the virtual root act as actual roots of the DODAG, all
advertising the same Rank in the DODAG. When some of the nodes fail, the other nodes may
or may not react in any specific way. In other words, at any time, more than one node can be
the actual root.

In the first realization, RNFD's operation is largely unaffected. The necessary conditions for a
node to become a Sentinel (Section 5.1) guarantee that only the current primary root node is
monitored by the protocol. This
assignment, CFRC size selection, and, possibly, the setting of the three thresholds (Section 5.8).
Moreover, when a new primary has been elected, a new DODAG Version
polluting CFRCs with observations on the previous primary.

 be taken into account in the policies for node role

SHOULD

MUST

 be issued to avoid

In the second realization, the fact that the virtual root consists of multiple nodes is transparent
to RNFD. Therefore, employing RNFD in such a setting can be beneficial only if the nodes
comprising the virtual root may suffer from correlated crashes, for instance, due to global power
outages.

6.3.  Monitoring

For monitoring the operation of RNFD, its implementation
information about a node:

SHOULD

 provide the following

•

whether the protocol is active, and

•

whether LORS is "GLOBALLY DOWN".

This information
including at least the DODAG Version Number and the Rank. To offer even finer-grained
visibility into RNFD's state at the node, the implementation

 be accompanied by the monitoring parameters defined by RPL

 also provide:

MUST

MAY

[RFC6550]
,

•

the assigned role (i.e., Sentinel or Acceptor),

•

the exact value of LORS (i.e., "UP", "SUSPECTED DOWN", "LOCALLY DOWN", or "GLOBALLY
DOWN"),

Iwanicki

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9866

RNFD

October 2025

•

the two CFRCs (i.e., PositiveCFRC and NegativeCFRC), and

•

the constants listed in Section 5.8.

7.  Security Considerations

RNFD is an extension to RPL and thus is vulnerable to and benefits from the security issues and
solutions described in
introduce new traffic patterns or new messages, for which specific mitigation techniques would
be required beyond what can already be adopted for RPL.

. Its specification in this document does not

[RFC6550]

[RFC7416]

 and

In particular, RNFD depends on information exchanged in the RNFD Option. If the contents of
this option were compromised, then failure misdetection may occur. One possibility is that the
DODAG root may be falsely detected as crashed, which would result in an inability of the nodes
to route packets, at least until a new DODAG Version is issued by the root. Another possibility is
that a crash of the DODAG root may not be detected by RNFD, in which case RPL would have to
rely on its own mechanisms. Moreover, compromising the contents of the RNFD Option may also
lead to increased DIO traffic due to Trickle timer resets. Consequently, RNFD deployments are
RECOMMENDED
be modified or spoofed.

 to use RPL security mechanisms if there is a risk that control information might

In this context, two features of RNFD are worth highlighting. First, unless all neighbors of a
DODAG root are compromised, a false positive can always be detected by the root based on its
local CFRCs. If the frequency of such false positives becomes problematic, RNFD can be disabled
altogether, for instance, until the problem has been diagnosed. This procedure can be largely
automated at LBRs. Second, some types of false negatives can also be detected this way. Those
that do pass undetected are likely not to have major negative consequences on RPL apart from
the lack of improvement to its performance upon a DODAG root's crash, at least if RPL's other
components are not attacked as well.

8.  IANA Considerations

IANA has allocated the following value in the "RPL Control Message Options" registry within the
"Routing Protocol for Low Power and Lossy Networks (RPL)" registry group.

Value Meaning

Reference

0x0E

RNFD Option

RFC 9866

Table 1

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

Iwanicki

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9866

RNFD

October 2025

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

[RFC6206]

[RFC6550]

[RFC6553]

[RFC6554]

[RFC8174]

,

Levis, P. Clausen, T. Hui, J. Gnawali, O.
,
,
6206 DOI 10.17487/RFC6206
,
rfc6206>

, March 2011,

.

, and

,

J. Ko "The Trickle Algorithm" RFC

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

Winter, T., Ed. Thubert, P., Ed. Brandt, A. Hui, J. Kelsey, R. Levis, P. Pister, K.
,
Struik, R. Vasseur, JP.
R. Alexander "RPL: IPv6 Routing Protocol for Low-
,
Power and Lossy Networks" RFC 6550 DOI 10.17487/RFC6550
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6550>

, March 2012,

, and

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

 and

Hui, J.
JP. Vasseur "The Routing Protocol for Low-Power and Lossy
Networks (RPL) Option for Carrying RPL Information in Data-Plane Datagrams"
RFC 6553 DOI 10.17487/RFC6553
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 2012,
rfc6553>

,
.

,

,

,

Hui, J. Vasseur, JP. Culler, D.
Source Routes with the Routing Protocol for Low-Power and Lossy Networks
(RPL)" RFC 6554 DOI 10.17487/RFC6554
editor.org/info/rfc6554>

V. Manral "An IPv6 Routing Header for

<https://www.rfc-

, March 2012,

, and

,

,

,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

9.2.  Informative References

[Ciolkosz19]

[Iwanicki16]

,

Ciolkosz, P. "Integration of the RNFD Algorithm for Border Router Failure
Detection with the RPL Standard for Routing IPv6 Packets" Master's Thesis,
University of Warsaw

, 2019.

,

,

Iwanicki, K. "RNFD: Routing-Layer Detection of DODAG (Root) Node Failures in
Low-Power Wireless Networks" 2016 15th ACM/IEEE International Conference
on Information Processing in Sensor Networks (IPSN), pp. 1-12 DOI 10.1109/
IPSN.2016.7460720

<https://doi.org/10.1109/IPSN.2016.7460720>

, 2016,

,

,

.

[Paszkowska19]

Paszkowska, A.

 and

K. Iwanicki "Failure Handling in RPL Implementations:

,

An Experimental Qualitative Study" Mission-Oriented Sensor Networks and
,
Systems: Art and Science, Springer International Publishing, pp. 49-95 DOI
10.1007/978-3-319-91146-5_3
10.1007/978-3-319-91146-5_3>

<https://doi.org/

, 2019,

,

.

[RFC4861]

,

Narten, T. Nordmark, E. Simpson, W.
IP version 6 (IPv6)" RFC 4861 DOI 10.17487/RFC4861
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4861>

, and

,

,

.

H. Soliman "Neighbor Discovery for
,
<https://
, September 2007,

Iwanicki

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9866

RNFD

October 2025

[RFC5184]

[RFC7102]

[RFC7228]

[RFC7416]

[Whang90]

,

Teraoka, F. Gogo, K. Mitsuya, K. Shibui, R.
,
Abstractions for Layer 3 (L3)-Driven Fast Handover" RFC 5184 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5184

K. Mitani "Unified Layer 2 (L2)
,
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5184>

, May 2008,

, and

,

,

,

,

Vasseur, JP. "Terms Used in Routing for Low-Power and Lossy Networks" RFC
7102 DOI 10.17487/RFC7102
,
rfc7102>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, January 2014,

.

,

,

Bormann, C. Ersue, M.
Networks" RFC 7228 DOI 10.17487/RFC7228
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc7228>

, and

.

A. Keranen "Terminology for Constrained-Node

,

, May 2014,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

M. Richardson, Ed.
Tsao, T. Alexander, R. Dohler, M. Daza, V. Lozano, A.
"A Security Threat Analysis for the Routing Protocol for Low-Power and Lossy
Networks (RPLs)" RFC 7416 DOI 10.17487/RFC7416
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7416>

, January 2015,

<https://

, and

,

,

,

.

,

,

,

Whang, K.-Y. Vander-Zanden, B.T.
H.M. Taylor "A Linear-time Probabilistic
Counting Algorithm for Database Applications" ACM Transactions on Database
Systems (TODS), vol. 15, no. 2, pp. 208-229 DOI 10.1145/78922.78925
<https://doi.org/10.1145/78922.78925>

, 1990,

, and

,

,

,

.

Acknowledgements

Piotr Ciolkosz
The author would like to acknowledge
contributed to deeper understanding and formally proving various aspects of RPL's behavior
upon an LBR crash. Piotr developed a prototype implementation of RNFD dedicated for RPL to
verify earlier performance claims.

Agnieszka Paszkowska

. Agnieszka

 and

Author's Address

Konrad Iwanicki
University of Warsaw
Banacha 2
02-097 Warszawa
Poland
Phone:
Email:

+48 22 55 44 428
iwanicki@mimuw.edu.pl

Iwanicki

Standards Track

Page 22

