Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9048
4187, 5448
Informational
October 2021
2070-1721
J. Arkko
Ericsson

V. Lehtovirta
Ericsson

V. Torvinen
Ericsson

P. Eronen
Independent

RFC 9048
Improved Extensible Authentication Protocol
Method for 3GPP Mobile Network Authentication
and Key Agreement (EAP-AKA')

Abstract

The 3GPP mobile network Authentication and Key Agreement (AKA) is an authentication
mechanism for devices wishing to access mobile networks. RFC 4187 (EAP-AKA) made the use of
this mechanism possible within the Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP) framework. RFC
5448 (EAP-AKA') was an improved version of EAP-AKA.

This document is the most recent speciﬁcation of EAP-AKA', including, for instance, details about
and references related to operating EAP-AKA' in 5G networks.

EAP-AKA' diﬀers from EAP-AKA by providing a key derivation function that binds the keys derived
within the method to the name of the access network. The key derivation function has been
deﬁned in the 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP). EAP-AKA' allows its use in EAP in an
interoperable manner. EAP-AKA' also updates the algorithm used in hash functions, as it employs
SHA-256 / HMAC-SHA-256 instead of SHA-1 / HMAC-SHA-1, which is used in EAP-AKA.

This version of the EAP-AKA' speciﬁcation deﬁnes the protocol behavior for both 4G and 5G
deployments, whereas the previous version deﬁned protocol behavior for 4G deployments only.
While EAP-AKA' as deﬁned in RFC 5448 is not obsolete, this document deﬁnes the most recent and
fully backwards-compatible speciﬁcation of EAP-AKA'. This document updates both RFCs 4187
and 5448.

Status of This Memo

This document is not an Internet Standards Track speciﬁcation; it is published for informational
purposes.

Arkko, et al.

Informational

Page 1

RFC 9048

EAP-AKA'

October 2021

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Not all documents approved by
the IESG are candidates for any level of Internet Standard; see Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9048
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Requirements Language

3.  EAP-AKA'

3.1.  AT_KDF_INPUT

3.2.  AT_KDF

3.3.  Key Derivation

3.4.  Hash Functions

3.4.1.  PRF'

3.4.2.  AT_MAC

3.4.3.  AT_CHECKCODE

3.5.  Summary of Attributes for EAP-AKA'

4.  Bidding Down Prevention for EAP-AKA

4.1.  Summary of Attributes for EAP-AKA

5.  Peer Identities

5.1.  Username Types in EAP-AKA' Identities

Arkko, et al.

Informational

Page 2

RFC 9048

EAP-AKA'

October 2021

5.2.  Generating Pseudonyms and Fast Re-Authentication Identities

5.3.  Identiﬁer Usage in 5G

5.3.1.  Key Derivation

5.3.2.  EAP Identity Response and EAP-AKA' AT_IDENTITY Attribute

6.  Exported Parameters

7.  Security Considerations

7.1.  Privacy

7.2.  Discovered Vulnerabilities

7.3.  Pervasive Monitoring

7.4.  Security Properties of Binding Network Names

8.  IANA Considerations

8.1.  Type Value

8.2.  Attribute Type Values

8.3.  Key Derivation Function Namespace

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Changes from RFC 5448

Appendix B.  Changes to RFC 4187

Appendix C.  Importance of Explicit Negotiation

Appendix D.  Test Vectors

Acknowledgments

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

The 3GPP mobile network Authentication and Key Agreement (AKA) is an authentication
mechanism for devices wishing to access mobile networks.
this mechanism possible within the Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP) framework
[RFC3748]

[RFC4187]

.

 (EAP-AKA) made the use of

Arkko, et al.

Informational

Page 3

RFC 9048

EAP-AKA'

October 2021

EAP-AKA' is an improved version of EAP-AKA. EAP-AKA' was deﬁned in RFC 5448
updated EAP-AKA

[RFC4187]

.

[RFC5448]

, and it

This document is the most recent speciﬁcation of EAP-AKA', including, for instance, details about
and references related to operating EAP-AKA' in 5G networks. This document does not obsolete
RFC 5448; however, this document is the most recent and fully backwards-compatible
speciﬁcation.

EAP-AKA' is commonly implemented in mobile phones and network equipment. It can be used for
authentication to gain network access via Wireless LAN networks and, with 5G, also directly to
mobile networks.

EAP-AKA' diﬀers from EAP-AKA by providing a diﬀerent key derivation function. This function
binds the keys derived within the method to the name of the access network. This limits the eﬀects
of compromised access network nodes and keys. EAP-AKA' also updates the algorithm used for
hash functions.

 and updates the hash function that is used to SHA-256

The EAP-AKA' method employs the derived keys CK' and IK' from the 3GPP speciﬁcation
 and HMAC to HMAC-
33.402]
SHA-256. Otherwise, EAP-AKA' is equivalent to EAP-AKA. Given that a diﬀerent EAP method Type
value is used for EAP-AKA and EAP-AKA', a mutually supported method may be negotiated using
the standard mechanisms in EAP

[FIPS.180-4]

[RFC3748]

[TS-3GPP.

.

Note that any change of the key derivation must be unambiguous to both sides in the
protocol. That is, it must not be possible to accidentally connect old equipment to new
equipment and get the key derivation wrong or to attempt to use incorrect keys without
getting a proper error message. See Appendix C for further information.

Note also that choices in authentication protocols should be secure against bidding down
attacks that attempt to force the participants to use the least secure function. See Section 4
for further information.

This speciﬁcation makes the following changes from RFC 5448:

•

Updates the reference that speciﬁes how the Network Name ﬁeld is constructed in the
protocol. This update ensures that EAP-AKA' is compatible with 5G deployments. RFC 5448
referred to the Release 8 version of
version, Release 16.

. This document points to the ﬁrst 5G

[TS-3GPP.24.302]

•

Speciﬁes how EAP and EAP-AKA' use identiﬁers in 5G. Additional identiﬁers are introduced in
5G, and for interoperability, it is necessary that the right identiﬁers are used as inputs in the
key derivation. In addition, for identity privacy it is important that when privacy-friendly
identiﬁers in 5G are used, no trackable, permanent identiﬁers are passed in EAP-AKA', either.

•

Speciﬁes session identiﬁers and other exported parameters, as those were not speciﬁed in
[RFC5448]
speciﬁed session identiﬁers for EAP-AKA, it only did so for the full authentication case, not for
the case of fast re-authentication.

 despite requirements set forward in

 to do so. Also, while

[RFC5247]

[RFC5247]

Arkko, et al.

Informational

Page 4

RFC 9048

EAP-AKA'

October 2021

•

Updates the requirements on generating pseudonym usernames and fast re-authentication
identities to ensure identity privacy.

•

Describes what has been learned about any vulnerabilities in AKA or EAP-AKA'.

•

Describes the privacy and pervasive monitoring considerations related to EAP-AKA'.

•

Adds summaries of the attributes.

Some of the updates are small. For instance, the reference update to
change the 3GPP speciﬁcation number, only the version. But this reference is crucial for the
correct calculation of the keys that result from running the EAP-AKA' method, so an RFC update
pointing to the newest version was warranted.

[TS-3GPP.24.302]

 does not

Note: Any further updates in 3GPP speciﬁcations that aﬀect, for instance, key derivation is
something that EAP-AKA' implementations need to take into account. Upon such updates,
there will be a need to update both this speciﬁcation and the implementations.

It is an explicit non-goal of this speciﬁcation to include any other technical modiﬁcations,
addition of new features, or other changes. The EAP-AKA' base protocol is stable and needs to stay
that way. If there are any extensions or variants, those need to be proposed as standalone
extensions or even as diﬀerent authentication methods.

The rest of this speciﬁcation is structured as follows. Section 3 deﬁnes the EAP-AKA' method.
Section 4 adds support to EAP-AKA to prevent bidding down attacks from EAP-AKA'. Section 5
speciﬁes requirements regarding the use of peer identities, including how 5G identiﬁers are used
in the EAP-AKA' context. Section 6 speciﬁes which parameters EAP-AKA' exports out of the method.
Section 7 explains the security diﬀerences between EAP-AKA and EAP-AKA'. Section 8 describes the
IANA considerations, and Appendix A and Appendix B explain the updates to RFC 5448 (EAP-AKA')
and RFC 4187 (EAP-AKA) that have been made in this speciﬁcation. Appendix C explains some of
the design rationale for creating EAP-AKA'. Finally, Appendix D provides test vectors.

2.  Requirements Language

The key words "
", "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
", "
"
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

3.  EAP-AKA'

EAP-AKA' is an EAP method that follows the EAP-AKA speciﬁcation
the following:

[RFC4187]

 in all respects except

•

It uses the Type code 0x32, not 0x17 (which is used by EAP-AKA).

•

It carries the AT_KDF_INPUT attribute, as deﬁned in Section 3.1, to ensure that both the peer
and server know the name of the access network.

Arkko, et al.

Informational

Page 5

RFC 9048

EAP-AKA'

October 2021

•

It supports key derivation function negotiation via the AT_KDF attribute (Section 3.2) to allow
for future extensions.

•

It calculates keys as deﬁned in Section 3.3, not as deﬁned in EAP-AKA.

•

It employs SHA-256 / HMAC-SHA-256
Section 3.4).

[FIPS.180-4]

, not SHA-1 / HMAC-SHA-1

[RFC2104]

 (see

Figure 1 shows an example of the authentication process. Each message AKA'-Challenge and so on
represents the corresponding message from EAP-AKA, but with the EAP-AKA' Type code. The
deﬁnition of these messages, along with the deﬁnition of attributes AT_RAND, AT_AUTN, AT_MAC,
and AT_RES can be found in

[RFC4187]

.

Arkko, et al.

Informational

Page 6

RFC 9048

EAP-AKA'

October 2021

 Peer                                                    Server
    |                       EAP-Request/Identity             |
    |<-------------------------------------------------------|
    |                                                        |
    |  EAP-Response/Identity                                 |
    |  (Includes user's Network Access Identifier, NAI)      |
    |------------------------------------------------------->|
    |         +--------------------------------------------------+
    |         | Server determines the network name and ensures   |
    |         | that the given access network is authorized to   |
    |         | use the claimed name.  The server then runs the  |
    |         | AKA' algorithms generating RAND and AUTN, and    |
    |         | derives session keys from CK' and IK'.  RAND and |
    |         | AUTN are sent as AT_RAND and AT_AUTN attributes, |
    |         | whereas the network name is transported in the   |
    |         | AT_KDF_INPUT attribute.  AT_KDF signals the used |
    |         | key derivation function.  The session keys are   |
    |         | used in creating the AT_MAC attribute.           |
    |         +--------------------------------------------------+
    |                         EAP-Request/AKA'-Challenge     |
    |        (AT_RAND, AT_AUTN, AT_KDF, AT_KDF_INPUT, AT_MAC)|
    |<-------------------------------------------------------|
+------------------------------------------------------+     |
| The peer determines what the network name should be, |     |
| based on, e.g., what access technology it is using.  |     |
| The peer also retrieves the network name sent by     |     |
| the network from the AT_KDF_INPUT attribute.  The    |     |
| two names are compared for discrepancies, and if     |     |
| necessary, the authentication is aborted.  Otherwise,|     |
| the network name from AT_KDF_INPUT attribute is      |     |
| used in running the AKA' algorithms, verifying AUTN  |     |
| from AT_AUTN and MAC from AT_MAC attributes.  The    |     |
| peer then generates RES.  The peer also derives      |     |
| session keys from CK'/IK'.  The AT_RES and AT_MAC    |     |
| attributes are constructed.                          |     |
+------------------------------------------------------+     |
    | EAP-Response/AKA'-Challenge                            |
    | (AT_RES, AT_MAC)                                       |
    |------------------------------------------------------->|
    |         +--------------------------------------------------+
    |         | Server checks the RES and MAC values received    |
    |         | in AT_RES and AT_MAC, respectively.  Success     |
    |         | requires both to be found correct.               |
    |         +--------------------------------------------------+
    |                                           EAP-Success  |
    |<-------------------------------------------------------|

Figure 1: EAP-AKA' Authentication Process

Section 4.1.1 of [RFC4187]

EAP-AKA' can operate on the same credentials as EAP-AKA and employ the same identities.
However, EAP-AKA' employs diﬀerent leading characters than EAP-AKA for the conventions given
in
(IMSI). For 4G networks, EAP-AKA'
instead of "0" for IMSI-based permanent usernames. For 5G networks, the leading character "6" is
not used for IMSI-based permanent usernames. Identiﬁer usage in 5G is speciﬁed in Section 5.3.

 for usernames based on International Mobile Subscriber Identiﬁer

 use the leading character "6" (ASCII 36 hexadecimal)

MUST

Arkko, et al.

Informational

Page 7

RFC 9048

EAP-AKA'

October 2021

[RFC4187]

All other usage and processing of the leading characters, usernames, and identities is as deﬁned
by EAP-AKA
. For instance, the pseudonym and fast re-authentication usernames need
to be constructed so that the server can recognize them. As an example, a pseudonym could begin
with a leading "7" character (ASCII 37 hexadecimal) and a fast re-authentication username could
begin with "8" (ASCII 38 hexadecimal). Note that a server that implements only EAP-AKA may not
recognize these leading characters. According to
, such a server will re-
request the identity via the EAP-Request/AKA-Identity message, making obvious to the peer that
EAP-AKA and associated identity are expected.

Section 4.1.4 of [RFC4187]

3.1.  AT_KDF_INPUT

The format of the AT_KDF_INPUT attribute is shown below.

    0                   1                   2                   3
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   | AT_KDF_INPUT  | Length        | Actual Network Name Length    |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                                                               |
   .                        Network Name                           .
   .                                                               .
   |                                                               |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

The ﬁelds are as follows:

AT_KDF_INPUT

This is set to 23.

Length

The length of the attribute, calculated as deﬁned in

[RFC4187], Section 8.1
.

Actual Network Name Length

This is a 2-byte actual length ﬁeld, needed due to the requirement that the previous ﬁeld is
expressed in multiples of 4 bytes per the usual EAP-AKA rules. The Actual Network Name
Length ﬁeld provides the length of the network name in bytes.

Network Name

This ﬁeld contains the network name of the access network for which the authentication is
being performed. The name does not include any terminating null characters. Because the
length of the entire attribute must be a multiple of 4 bytes, the sender pads the name with 1, 2,
or 3 bytes of all zero bits when necessary.

Only the server sends the AT_KDF_INPUT attribute. The value is sent as speciﬁed in
[TS-3GPP.
 for both non-3GPP access networks and for 5G access networks. Per
24.302]
[TS-3GPP.33.402]
server always veriﬁes the authorization of a given access network to use a particular name
before sending it to the peer over EAP-AKA'. The value of the AT_KDF_INPUT attribute from the
 be non-empty, with a greater than zero length in the Actual Network Name Length
server

MUST

, the

Arkko, et al.

Informational

Page 8

RFC 9048

EAP-AKA'

October 2021

ﬁeld. If the AT_KDF_INPUT attribute is empty, the peer behaves as if AUTN had been incorrect and
authentication fails. See Section 3 and Figure 3 of
authentication failures are handled.

 for an overview of how

[RFC4187]

MAY

 check the received value against its own understanding of the network

In addition, the peer
name. Upon detecting a discrepancy, the peer either warns the user and continues, or fails the
authentication process. More speciﬁcally, the peer
follow under these circumstances. If the policy indicates that it can continue, the peer
 use the
a warning message or display it to the user. If the peer chooses to proceed, it
network name as received in the AT_KDF_INPUT attribute. If the policy indicates that the
authentication should fail, the peer behaves as if AUTN had been incorrect and authentication
fails.

 have a conﬁgurable policy that it can

SHOULD

SHOULD

MUST

 log

The Network Name ﬁeld contains a UTF-8 string. This string
[TS-3GPP.24.302]
colons (:). The algorithms and mechanisms to construct the identity string depend on the used
access technology.

 for "Access Network Identity". The string is structured as ﬁelds separated by

 be constructed as speciﬁed in

MUST

On the network side, the network name construction is a conﬁguration issue in an access
network and an authorization check in the authentication server. On the peer, the network name
is constructed based on the local observations. For instance, the peer knows which access
technology it is using on the link, it can see information in a link-layer beacon, and so on. The
construction rules specify how this information maps to an access network name. Typically, the
network name consists of the name of the access technology or the name of the access
technology followed by some operator identiﬁer that was advertised in a link-layer beacon. In all
cases,
 is the normative speciﬁcation for the construction in both the network
and peer side. If the peer policy allows running EAP-AKA' over an access technology for which
that speciﬁcation does not provide network name construction rules, the peer
SHOULD
on the information from the AT_KDF_INPUT attribute and not perform a comparison.

[TS-3GPP.24.302]

 rely only

MUST

If a comparison of the locally determined network name and the one received over EAP-AKA' is
performed on the peer, it
 be done as follows. First, each name is broken down to the ﬁelds
separated by colons. If one of the names has more colons and ﬁelds than the other one, the
additional ﬁelds are ignored. The remaining sequences of ﬁelds are compared, and they match
only if they are equal character by character. This algorithm allows a preﬁx match where the peer
would be able to match "", "FOO", and "FOO:BAR" against the value "FOO:BAR" received from the
server. This capability is important in order to allow possible updates to the speciﬁcations that
dictate how the network names are constructed. For instance, if a peer knows that it is running
on access technology "FOO", it can use the string "FOO" even if the server uses an additional, more
accurate description, e.g., "FOO:BAR", that contains more information.

[TS-3GPP.24.302]

The allocation procedures in
the same name in diﬀerent types of networks are avoided. The speciﬁcation also has detailed
rules about how a client can determine these based on information available to the client, such as
the type of protocol used to attach to the network, beacons sent out by the network, and so on.
Information that the client cannot directly observe (such as the type or version of the home
network) is not used by this algorithm.

 ensure that conﬂicts potentially arising from using

Arkko, et al.

Informational

Page 9

RFC 9048

EAP-AKA'

October 2021

The AT_KDF_INPUT attribute
attribute has the value 1. Future deﬁnitions of new AT_KDF values
is sent and processed.

MUST

 be sent and processed as explained above when AT_KDF

MUST

 deﬁne how this attribute

3.2.  AT_KDF

AT_KDF is an attribute that the server uses to reference a speciﬁc key derivation function. It
oﬀers a negotiation capability that can be useful for future evolution of the key derivation
functions.

The format of the AT_KDF attribute is shown below.

    0                   1                   2                   3
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   | AT_KDF        | Length        |    Key Derivation Function    |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

The ﬁelds are as follows:

AT_KDF

This is set to 24.

Length

The length of the attribute, calculated as deﬁned in
Length ﬁeld

 be set to 1.

MUST

[RFC4187], Section 8.1

. For AT_KDF, the

Key Derivation Function

An enumerated value representing the key derivation function that the server (or peer) wishes
to use. Value 1 represents the default key derivation function for EAP-AKA', i.e., employing CK'
and IK' as deﬁned in Section 3.3.

MUST

 send one or more AT_KDF attributes in the EAP-Request/AKA'-Challenge message.

Servers
These attributes represent the desired functions ordered by preference, the most preferred
function being the ﬁrst attribute.

Upon receiving a set of these attributes, if the peer supports and is willing to use the key
derivation function indicated by the ﬁrst attribute, the function is taken into use without any
further negotiation. However, if the peer does not support this function or is unwilling to use it, it
does not process the received EAP-Request/AKA'-Challenge in any way except by responding with
the EAP-Response/AKA'-Challenge message that contains only one attribute, AT_KDF with the
value set to the selected alternative. If there is no suitable alternative, the peer behaves as if AUTN
had been incorrect and authentication fails (see Figure 3 of
authentication also if there are any duplicate values within the list of AT_KDF attributes (except
where the duplication is due to a request to change the key derivation function; see below for
further information).

). The peer fails the

[RFC4187]

Arkko, et al.

Informational

Page 10

RFC 9048

EAP-AKA'

October 2021

Upon receiving an EAP-Response/AKA'-Challenge with AT_KDF from the peer, the server checks
that the suggested AT_KDF value was one of the alternatives in its oﬀer. The ﬁrst AT_KDF value in
the message from the server is not a valid alternative since the peer should have accepted it
without further negotiation. If the peer has replied with the ﬁrst AT_KDF value, the server behaves
as if AT_MAC of the response had been incorrect and fails the authentication. For an overview of
the failed authentication process in the server side, see Section 3 and Figure 2 of
Otherwise, the server re-sends the EAP-Response/AKA'-Challenge message, but adds the selected
alternative to the beginning of the list of AT_KDF attributes and retains the entire list following it.
Note that this means that the selected alternative appears twice in the set of AT_KDF values.
Responding to the peer's request to change the key derivation function is the only legal situation
where such duplication may occur.

[RFC4187]

.

When the peer receives the new EAP-Request/AKA'-Challenge message, it
requested change, and only the requested change, occurred in the list of AT_KDF attributes. If so, it
continues with processing the received EAP-Request/AKA'-Challenge as speciﬁed in
 and
[RFC4187]
Section 3.1 of this document. If not, it behaves as if AT_MAC had been incorrect and fails the
authentication. If the peer receives multiple EAP-Request/AKA'-Challenge messages with diﬀering
AT_KDF attributes without having requested negotiation, the peer
 behave as if AT_MAC had
been incorrect and fail the authentication.

 check that the

MUST

MUST

[RFC4187]

. This happens

Note that the peer may also request sequence number resynchronization
after AT_KDF negotiation has already completed. That is, the EAP-Request/AKA'-Challenge and,
possibly, the EAP-Response/AKA'-Challenge messages are exchanged ﬁrst to determine a mutually
acceptable key derivation function, and only then is the possible AKA'-Synchronization-Failure
message sent. The AKA'-Synchronization-Failure message is sent as a response to the newly
received EAP-Request/AKA'-Challenge, which is the last message of the AT_KDF negotiation. Note
that if the ﬁrst proposed KDF is acceptable, then the ﬁrst EAP-Request/AKA'-Challenge message is
also the last message. The AKA'-Synchronization-Failure message
parameter as speciﬁed in
 and a copy the AT_KDF attributes as they appeared in the last
message of the AT_KDF negotiation. If the AT_KDF attributes are found to diﬀer from their earlier
values, the peer and server
authentication.

 behave as if AT_MAC had been incorrect and fail the

 contain the AUTS

[RFC4187]

MUST

MUST

3.3.  Key Derivation

Both the peer and server

MUST

 derive the keys as follows.

AT_KDF parameter has the value 1

In this case, MK is derived and used as follows:

    MK = PRF'(IK'|CK',"EAP-AKA'"|Identity)
    K_encr = MK[0..127]
    K_aut  = MK[128..383]
    K_re   = MK[384..639]
    MSK    = MK[640..1151]
    EMSK   = MK[1152..1663]

Arkko, et al.

Informational

Page 11

RFC 9048

EAP-AKA'

October 2021

Here [n..m] denotes the substring from bit n to m, including bits n and m. PRF' is a new
pseudorandom function speciﬁed in Section 3.4. The ﬁrst 1664 bits from its output are used for
K_encr (encryption key, 128 bits), K_aut (authentication key, 256 bits), K_re (re-authentication
key, 256 bits), MSK (Master Session Key, 512 bits), and EMSK (Extended Master Session Key, 512
bits). These keys are used by the subsequent EAP-AKA' process. K_encr is used by the
AT_ENCR_DATA attribute, and K_aut by the AT_MAC attribute. K_re is used later in this section.
MSK and EMSK are outputs from a successful EAP method run

[RFC3748]

.

. The functions that derive IK' and CK'
IK' and CK' are derived as speciﬁed in
[TS-3GPP.33.402]
take the following parameters: CK and IK produced by the AKA algorithm, and value of the
Network Name ﬁeld comes from the AT_KDF_INPUT attribute (without length or padding).

The value "EAP-AKA'" is an eight-characters-long ASCII string. It is used as is, without any
trailing NUL characters.

Identity is the peer identity as speciﬁed in
document for the 5G cases.

Section 7 of [RFC4187]

 and in Section 5.3.2 of in this

MUST

When the server creates an AKA challenge and corresponding AUTN, CK, CK', IK, and IK'
values, it
algorithm
1. If the bit is not set to 1, the peer behaves as if the AUTN had been incorrect and fails the
authentication.

 set the Authentication Management Field (AMF) separation bit to 1 in the AKA
 check that the AMF separation bit is set to

. Similarly, the peer

[TS-3GPP.33.102]

MUST

On fast re-authentication, the following keys are calculated:

    MK = PRF'(K_re,"EAP-AKA' re-auth"|Identity|counter|NONCE_S)
    MSK  = MK[0..511]
    EMSK = MK[512..1023]

MSK and EMSK are the resulting 512-bit keys, taking the ﬁrst 1024 bits from the result of PRF'.
Note that K_encr and K_aut are not re-derived on fast re-authentication. K_re is the re-
authentication key from the preceding full authentication and stays unchanged over any fast
re-authentication(s) that may happen based on it. The value "EAP-AKA' re-auth" is a sixteen-
characters-long ASCII string, again represented without any trailing NUL characters. Identity
is the fast re-authentication identity, counter is the value from the AT_COUNTER attribute,
NONCE_S is the nonce value from the AT_NONCE_S attribute, all as speciﬁed in
Section 7 of
[RFC4187]
the network name when going from the full to the fast re-authentication process. The peer
SHOULD NOT
current access network is diﬀerent from the one in the initial, full authentication. Upon seeing
a re-authentication request with a changed network name, the server
 behave as if the
re-authentication identiﬁer had been unrecognized, and fall back to full authentication. The
server observes the change in the name by comparing where the fast re-authentication and
full authentication EAP transactions were received at the Authentication, Authorization, and
Accounting (AAA) protocol level.

. To prevent the use of compromised keys in other places, it is forbidden to change

 attempt fast re-authentication when it knows that the network name in the

SHOULD

Arkko, et al.

Informational

Page 12

RFC 9048

EAP-AKA'

October 2021

AT_KDF has any other value

Future variations of key derivation functions may be deﬁned, and they will be represented by
new values of AT_KDF. If the peer does not recognize the value, it cannot calculate the keys
and behaves as explained in Section 3.2.

AT_KDF is missing

The peer behaves as if the AUTN had been incorrect and

MUST

 fail the authentication.

If the peer supports a given key derivation function but is unwilling to perform it for policy
reasons, it refuses to calculate the keys and behaves as explained in Section 3.2.

3.4.  Hash Functions

[RFC2104]
EAP-AKA' uses SHA-256 / HMAC-SHA-256, not SHA-1 / HMAC-SHA-1 (see
)
as in EAP-AKA. This requires a change to the pseudorandom function (PRF) as well as the AT_MAC
and AT_CHECKCODE attributes.

[FIPS.180-4]

 and

3.4.1.  PRF'

; the deﬁnition of
The PRF' construction is the same one IKEv2 uses (see
). The function
this function has not changed since
takes two arguments. K is a 256-bit value and S is a byte string of arbitrary length. PRF' is deﬁned
as follows:

, which was referenced by

Section 2.13 of [RFC7296]

[RFC4306]

[RFC5448]

PRF'(K,S) = T1 | T2 | T3 | T4 | ...

   where:
   T1 = HMAC-SHA-256 (K, S | 0x01)
   T2 = HMAC-SHA-256 (K, T1 | S | 0x02)
   T3 = HMAC-SHA-256 (K, T2 | S | 0x03)
   T4 = HMAC-SHA-256 (K, T3 | S | 0x04)
   ...

PRF' produces as many bits of output as is needed. HMAC-SHA-256 is the application of HMAC
[RFC2104]

 to SHA-256.

3.4.2.  AT_MAC

When used within EAP-AKA', the AT_MAC attribute is changed as follows. The MAC algorithm is
HMAC-SHA-256-128, a keyed hash value. The HMAC-SHA-256-128 value is obtained from the 32-
byte HMAC-SHA-256 value by truncating the output to the ﬁrst 16 bytes. Hence, the length of the
MAC is 16 bytes.

Otherwise, the use of AT_MAC in EAP-AKA' follows

Section 10.15 of [RFC4187]

.

3.4.3.  AT_CHECKCODE

When used within EAP-AKA', the AT_CHECKCODE attribute is changed as follows. First, a 32-byte
value is needed to accommodate a 256-bit hash output:

Arkko, et al.

Informational

Page 13

RFC 9048

EAP-AKA'

October 2021

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| AT_CHECKCODE  | Length        |           Reserved            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                                                               |
|                     Checkcode (0 or 32 bytes)                 |
|                                                               |
|                                                               |
|                                                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Second, the checkcode is a hash value, calculated with SHA-256
speciﬁed in

Section 10.13 of [RFC4187]

.

[FIPS.180-4]

, over the data

3.5.  Summary of Attributes for EAP-AKA'

Table 1 identiﬁes which attributes may be found in which kinds of messages, and in what
quantity.

Messages are denoted with numbers as follows:

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

EAP-Request/AKA-Identity

EAP-Response/AKA-Identity

EAP-Request/AKA-Challenge

EAP-Response/AKA-Challenge

EAP-Request/AKA-Notiﬁcation

EAP-Response/AKA-Notiﬁcation

EAP-Response/AKA-Client-Error

EAP-Request/AKA-Reauthentication

EAP-Response/AKA-Reauthentication

10

EAP-Response/AKA-Authentication-Reject

11

EAP-Response/AKA-Synchronization-Failure

The column denoted with "E" indicates whether the attribute is a nested attribute that
included within AT_ENCR_DATA.

MUST

 be

In addition, the numbered columns indicate the quantity of the attribute within the message as
follows:

"0"

Indicates that the attribute

MUST NOT

 be included in the message.

Arkko, et al.

Informational

Page 14

RFC 9048

EAP-AKA'

October 2021

"1"

Indicates that the attribute

MUST

 be included in the message.

"0-1"

Indicates that the attribute is sometimes included in the message

"0+"

"1+"

"0*"

Indicates that zero or more copies of the attribute

MAY

 be included in the message.

Indicates that there
be included in the message.

MUST

 be at least one attribute in the message but more than one

MAY

Indicates that the attribute is not included in the message in cases speciﬁed in this
document, but

 be included in the future versions of the protocol.

MAY

The attribute table is shown below. The table is largely the same as in the EAP-AKA attribute table
), but changes how many times AT_MAC may appear in an EAP-Response/
(
[RFC4187], Section 10.1
AKA'-Challenge message as it does not appear there when AT_KDF has to be sent from the peer to
the server. The table also adds the AT_KDF and AT_KDF_INPUT attributes.

Attribute

AT_PERMANENT_ID_REQ

AT_ANY_ID_REQ

AT_FULLAUTH_ID_REQ

AT_IDENTITY

AT_RAND

AT_AUTN

AT_RES

AT_AUTS

AT_NEXT_PSEUDONYM

AT_NEXT_REAUTH_ID

AT_IV

AT_ENCR_DATA

AT_PADDING

AT_CHECKCODE

AT_RESULT_IND

AT_MAC

1

0-1

0-1

0-1

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

2

0

0

0

0-1

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

3

0

0

0

0

1

1

0

0

0-1

0-1

4

0

0

0

0

0

0

1

0

0

0

5

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

6

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0-1

0*

0-1

0-1

0-1

0*

0-1

0-1

0-1

0*

0-1

0-1

0-1

0-1

0-1

0-1

0

0

0

0

1

0-1

0-1

0-1

7

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

8

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0-1

1

1

9

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

1

1

0-1

0-1

0-1

0-1

0-1

0-1

1

1

10

11

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

1

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

E

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

Y

Y

N

N

Y

N

N

N

Arkko, et al.

Informational

Page 15

RFC 9048

EAP-AKA'

October 2021

Attribute

AT_COUNTER

AT_COUNTER_TOO_SMALL

AT_NONCE_S

AT_NOTIFICATION

AT_CLIENT_ERROR_CODE

AT_KDF

AT_KDF_INPUT

Table 1: The Attribute Table

1

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

2

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

3

0

0

0

0

0

4

0

0

0

0

0

1+

0+

1

0

5

6

0-1

0-1

0

0

1

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

7

0

0

0

0

1

0

0

8

1

0

1

0

0

0

0

9

1

0-1

0

0

0

0

0

4.  Bidding Down Prevention for EAP-AKA

10

11

E

Y

Y

Y

N

N

0

0

0

0

0

1+ N

0

N

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

[RFC3748]

As discussed in
middle attacker may force the endpoints to use a method that is not the strongest that they both
support. This is a problem, as we expect EAP-AKA and EAP-AKA' to be negotiated via EAP.

, negotiation of methods within EAP is insecure. That is, a man-in-the-

In order to prevent such attacks, this RFC speciﬁes a mechanism for EAP-AKA that allows the
endpoints to securely discover the capabilities of each other. This mechanism comes in the form
of the AT_BIDDING attribute. This allows both endpoints to communicate their desire and support
for EAP-AKA' when exchanging EAP-AKA messages. This attribute is not included in EAP-AKA'
messages. It is only included in EAP-AKA messages, which are protected with the AT_MAC
attribute. This approach is based on the assumption that EAP-AKA' is always preferable (see
Section 7). If during the EAP-AKA authentication process it is discovered that both endpoints
would have been able to use EAP-AKA', the authentication process
bidding down attack may have happened.

 be aborted, as a

SHOULD

The format of the AT_BIDDING attribute is shown below.

    0                   1                   2                   3
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   | AT_BIDDING    | Length        |D|          Reserved           |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

The ﬁelds are as follows:

AT_BIDDING

This is set to 136.

Arkko, et al.

Informational

Page 16

RFC 9048

Length

EAP-AKA'

October 2021

The length of the attribute, calculated as deﬁned in
Length

 be set to 1.

MUST

[RFC4187], Section 8.1

. For AT_BIDDING, the

D

This bit is set to 1 if the sender supports EAP-AKA', is willing to use it, and prefers it over EAP-
AKA. Otherwise, it should be set to zero.

Reserved

This ﬁeld

MUST

 be set to zero when sent and ignored on receipt.

The server sends this attribute in the EAP-Request/AKA-Challenge message. If the peer supports
EAP-AKA', it compares the received value to its own capabilities. If it turns out that both the server
and peer would have been able to use EAP-AKA' and preferred it over EAP-AKA, the peer behaves
as if AUTN had been incorrect and fails the authentication (see Figure 3 of
). A peer not
supporting EAP-AKA' will simply ignore this attribute. In all cases, the attribute is protected by the
integrity mechanisms of EAP-AKA, so it cannot be removed by a man-in-the-middle attacker.

[RFC4187]

Note that we assume (Section 7) that EAP-AKA' is always stronger than EAP-AKA. As a result, this
speciﬁcation does not provide protection against bidding "down" attacks in the other direction,
i.e., attackers forcing the endpoints to use EAP-AKA'.

4.1.  Summary of Attributes for EAP-AKA

The appearance of the AT_BIDDING attribute in EAP-AKA exchanges is shown below, using the
notation from Section 3.5:

Attribute

AT_BIDDING

1

0

2

0

3

1

4

0

5

0

6

0

7

0

8

0

9

0

10

11

0

0

E

N

Table 2: AT_BIDDING Attribute Appearance

5.  Peer Identities

EAP-AKA' peer identities are as speciﬁed in
requirements speciﬁed in this section.

[RFC4187], Section 4.1

, with the addition of some

EAP-AKA' includes optional identity privacy support that can be used to hide the cleartext
permanent identity and thereby make the subscriber's EAP exchanges untraceable to
eavesdroppers. EAP-AKA' can also use the privacy-friendly identiﬁers speciﬁed for 5G networks.

The permanent identity is usually based on the IMSI. Exposing the IMSI is undesirable because, as
a permanent identity, it is easily trackable. In addition, since IMSIs may be used in other contexts
as well, there would be additional opportunities for such tracking.

Arkko, et al.

Informational

Page 17

RFC 9048

EAP-AKA'

October 2021

In EAP-AKA', identity privacy is based on temporary usernames or pseudonym usernames. These
are similar to, but separate from, the Temporary Mobile Subscriber Identities (TMSI) that are used
on cellular networks.

5.1.  Username Types in EAP-AKA' Identities

Section 4.1.1.3 of [RFC4187]
pseudonym, and fast re-authentication usernames. This speciﬁcation extends this deﬁnition as
follows. There are four types of usernames:

 speciﬁes that there are three types of usernames: permanent,

(1)

Regular usernames. These are external names given to EAP-AKA' peers. The regular
usernames are further subdivided into to categories:

(a)

(b)

Permanent usernames, for instance, IMSI-based usernames.

Privacy-friendly temporary usernames, for instance, 5G GUTI (5G Globally Unique
Temporary Identiﬁer) or 5G privacy identiﬁers (see Section 5.3.2) such as SUCI
(Subscription Concealed Identiﬁer).

(2)

(3)

EAP-AKA' pseudonym usernames. For example, 2s7ah6n9q@example.com might be a valid
pseudonym identity. In this example, 2s7ah6n9q is the pseudonym username.

EAP-AKA' fast re-authentication usernames. For example, 43953754@example.com might be
a valid fast re-authentication identity and 43953754 the fast re-authentication username.

The permanent, privacy-friendly temporary, and pseudonym usernames are only used with full
authentication, and fast re-authentication usernames only with fast re-authentication. Unlike
permanent usernames and pseudonym usernames, privacy-friendly temporary usernames and
fast re-authentication usernames are one-time identiﬁers, which are not reused across EAP
exchanges.

5.2.  Generating Pseudonyms and Fast Re-Authentication Identities

This section provides some additional guidance to implementations for producing secure
pseudonyms and fast re-authentication identities. It does not impact backwards compatibility
because each server consumes only the identities that it generates itself. However, adherence to
the guidance will provide better security.

[RFC4187], Section 4.1.1.7

As speciﬁed by
identities are generated by the EAP server in an implementation-dependent manner. RFC 4187
provides some general requirements on how these identities are transported, how they map to
the NAI syntax, how they are distinguished from each other, and so on.

, pseudonym usernames and fast re-authentication

However, to enhance privacy, some additional requirements need to be applied.

The pseudonym usernames and fast re-authentication identities
cryptographically secure way so that it is computationally infeasible for an attacker to
diﬀerentiate two identities belonging to the same user from two identities belonging to diﬀerent

 be generated in a

MUST

Arkko, et al.

Informational

Page 18

RFC 9048

EAP-AKA'

October 2021

users. This can be achieved, for instance, by using random or pseudorandom identiﬁers such as
random byte strings or ciphertexts. See also
generation.

 for guidance on random number

[RFC4086]

Note that the pseudonym and fast re-authentication usernames also
that can be used to relate the username to a particular entity or a particular permanent identity.
For instance, the usernames cannot include any subscriber-identifying part of an IMSI or other
permanent identiﬁer. Similarly, no part of the username can be formed by a ﬁxed mapping that
stays the same across multiple diﬀerent pseudonyms or fast re-authentication identities for the
same subscriber.

 include substrings

MUST NOT

When the identiﬁer used to identify a subscriber in an EAP-AKA' authentication exchange is a
 use a pseudonym
privacy-friendly identiﬁer that is used only once, the EAP-AKA' peer
provided in that authentication exchange in subsequent exchanges more than once. To ensure
that this does not happen, the EAP-AKA' server
MAY
authentication exchanges. An important case where such privacy-friendly identiﬁers are used is
in 5G networks (see Section 5.3).

 decline to provide a pseudonym in such

MUST NOT

5.3.  Identiﬁer Usage in 5G

In EAP-AKA', the peer identity may be communicated to the server in one of three ways:

•

As a part of link-layer establishment procedures, externally to EAP.

•

With the EAP-Response/Identity message in the beginning of the EAP exchange, but before the
selection of EAP-AKA'.

•

Transmitted from the peer to the server using EAP-AKA' messages instead of EAP-Response/
Identity. In this case, the server includes an identity-requesting attribute (AT_ANY_ID_REQ,
AT_FULLAUTH_ID_REQ, or AT_PERMANENT_ID_REQ) in the EAP-Request/AKA-Identity
message, and the peer includes the AT_IDENTITY attribute, which contains the peer's identity,
in the EAP-Response/AKA-Identity message.

The identity carried above may be a permanent identity, privacy-friendly identity, pseudonym
identity, or fast re-authentication identity as deﬁned in Section 5.1.

5G supports the concept of privacy identiﬁers, and it is important for interoperability that the
right type of identiﬁer is used.

[TS-3GPP.23.501] [TS-3GPP.33.501] [TS-3GPP.23.003]

5G deﬁnes the SUbscription Permanent Identiﬁer (SUPI) and SUbscription Concealed Identiﬁer
(SUCI)
each subscriber. However, it is only used internally in the 5G network and is privacy sensitive.
The SUCI is a privacy-preserving identiﬁer containing the concealed SUPI, using public key
cryptography to encrypt the SUPI.

. SUPI is globally unique and allocated to

Given the choice between these two types of identiﬁers, EAP-AKA' ensures interoperability as
follows:

•

Where identiﬁers are used within EAP-AKA' (such as key derivation) determine the exact
values of the identity to be used, to avoid ambiguity (see Section 5.3.1).

Arkko, et al.

Informational

Page 19

RFC 9048

EAP-AKA'

October 2021

•

Where identiﬁers are carried within EAP-AKA' packets (such as in the AT_IDENTITY attribute)
determine which identiﬁers should be ﬁlled in (see Section 5.3.2).

In 5G, the normal mode of operation is that identiﬁers are only transmitted outside EAP.
However, in a system involving terminals from many generations and several connectivity
options via 5G and other mechanisms, implementations and the EAP-AKA' speciﬁcation need to
prepare for many diﬀerent situations, including sometimes having to communicate identities
within EAP.

The following sections clarify which identiﬁers are used and how.

5.3.1.  Key Derivation

In EAP-AKA', the peer identity is used in the key derivation formula found in Section 3.3.

The identity needs to be represented in exactly the correct format for the key derivation formula
to produce correct results.

If the AT_KDF_INPUT parameter contains the preﬁx "5G:", the AT_KDF parameter has the value 1,
and this authentication is not a fast re-authentication, then the peer identity used in the key
derivation
This is in contrast to
as a NAI. Also, in contrast to
front of the identiﬁer.

.
[TS-3GPP.23.003]
, which uses the identity as communicated in EAP and represented

, in 5G EAP-AKA' does not use the "0" nor the "6" preﬁx in

 be as speciﬁed in Annex F.3 of

 and Clause 2.2 of

[TS-3GPP.33.501]

[RFC5448]

[RFC5448]

MUST

For an example of the format of the identity, see Clause 2.2 of

[TS-3GPP.23.003]

.

In all other cases, the following applies:

The identity used in the key derivation formula
 be exactly the one sent in the EAP-
AKA' AT_IDENTITY attribute, if one was sent, regardless of the kind of identity that it may
have been. If no AT_IDENTITY was sent, the identity
generic EAP Identity exchange, if one was made.

 be exactly the one sent in the

MUST

MUST

If no identity was communicated inside EAP, then the identity is the one communicated
outside EAP in link-layer messaging.

In this case, the used identity
peer to the network, again regardless of what type of identity it may have been.

 be the identity most recently communicated by the

MUST

5.3.2.  EAP Identity Response and EAP-AKA' AT_IDENTITY Attribute

The EAP authentication option is only available in 5G when the new 5G core network is also in
use. However, in other networks, an EAP-AKA' peer may be connecting to other types of networks
and existing equipment.

When the EAP server is in a 5G network, the 5G procedures for EAP-AKA' apply.
speciﬁes when the EAP server is in a 5G network.

[TS-3GPP.33.501]

Arkko, et al.

Informational

Page 20

RFC 9048

EAP-AKA'

October 2021

Note: Currently, the following conditions are speciﬁed: when the EAP peer uses the 5G Non-
Access Stratum (NAS) protocol
 or when the EAP peer attaches to a network
that advertises 5G connectivity without NAS
may also be speciﬁed by 3GPP.

. Possible future conditions

[TS-3GPP.24.501]

[TS-3GPP.23.501]

When the 5G procedures for EAP-AKA' apply, EAP identity exchanges are generally not used as the
identity is already made available on previous link-layer exchanges.

In this situation, the EAP Identity Response and EAP-AKA' AT_IDENTITY attribute are handled as
speciﬁed in Annex F.2 of

[TS-3GPP.33.501]

.

When used in EAP-AKA', the format of the SUCI
28.7.3, with the semantics deﬁned in
in 5G EAP-AKA' does not use the "0" nor the "6" preﬁx in front of the identiﬁer.

[TS-3GPP.23.003]
 be as speciﬁed in
, Section 2.2B. Also, in contrast to

MUST
[TS-3GPP.23.003]

, Section
[RFC5448]

,

For an example of an IMSI in NAI format, see

[TS-3GPP.23.003]

, Section 28.7.3.

Otherwise, the peer

SHOULD

 employ an IMSI, SUPI, or NAI

[RFC7542]

 as it is conﬁgured to use.

6.  Exported Parameters

When not using fast re-authentication, the EAP-AKA' Session-Id is the concatenation of the EAP-
AKA' Type value (0x32, one byte) with the contents of the RAND ﬁeld from the AT_RAND attribute
followed by the contents of the AUTN ﬁeld in the AT_AUTN attribute:

      Session-Id = 0x32 || RAND || AUTN

When using fast re-authentication, the EAP-AKA' Session-Id is the concatenation of the EAP-AKA'
Type value (0x32) with the contents of the NONCE_S ﬁeld from the AT_NONCE_S attribute followed
by the contents of the MAC ﬁeld from the AT_MAC attribute from the EAP-Request/AKA-
Reauthentication:

      Session-Id = 0x32 || NONCE_S || MAC

The Peer-Id is the contents of the Identity ﬁeld from the AT_IDENTITY attribute, using only the
Actual Identity Length bytes from the beginning. Note that the contents are used as they are
transmitted, regardless of whether the transmitted identity was a permanent, pseudonym, or fast
EAP re-authentication identity. If no AT_IDENTITY attribute was exchanged, the exported Peer-Id
is the identity provided from the EAP Identity Response packet. If no EAP Identity Response was
provided either, the exported Peer-Id is the null string (zero length).

The Server-Id is the null string (zero length).

Arkko, et al.

Informational

Page 21

RFC 9048

EAP-AKA'

October 2021

7.  Security Considerations

A summary of the security properties of EAP-AKA' follows. These properties are very similar to
those in EAP-AKA. We assume that HMAC SHA-256 is at least as secure as HMAC SHA-1 (see also
[RFC6194]
assumption, EAP-AKA' is at least as secure as EAP-AKA.

). This is called the SHA-256 assumption in the remainder of this section. Under this

If the AT_KDF attribute has value 1, then the security properties of EAP-AKA' are as follows:

Protected ciphersuite negotiation

EAP-AKA' has no ciphersuite negotiation mechanisms. It does have a negotiation mechanism
for selecting the key derivation functions. This mechanism is secure against bidding down
attacks from EAP-AKA' to EAP-AKA. The negotiation mechanism allows changing the oﬀered
key derivation function, but the change is visible in the ﬁnal EAP-Request/AKA'-Challenge
message that the server sends to the peer. This message is authenticated via the AT_MAC
attribute, and carries both the chosen alternative and the initially oﬀered list. The peer refuses
to accept a change it did not initiate. As a result, both parties are aware that a change is being
made and what the original oﬀer was.

Per assumptions in Section 4, there is no protection against bidding down attacks from EAP-
AKA to EAP-AKA' should EAP-AKA' somehow be considered less secure some day than EAP-AKA.
Such protection was not provided in RFC 5448 implementations and consequently neither
does this speciﬁcation provide it. If such support is needed, it would have to be added as a
separate new feature.

In general, it is expected that the current negotiation capabilities in EAP-AKA' are suﬃcient for
some types of extensions, including adding Perfect Forward Secrecy
perhaps others. However, some larger changes may require a new EAP method type, which is
how EAP-AKA' itself happened. One example of such change would be the introduction of new
algorithms.

[EMU-AKA-PFS]

 and

Mutual authentication

Under the SHA-256 assumption, the properties of EAP-AKA' are at least as good as those of EAP-
AKA in this respect. Refer to

[RFC4187], Section 12

, for further details.

Integrity protection

Under the SHA-256 assumption, the properties of EAP-AKA' are at least as good (most likely
better) as those of EAP-AKA in this respect. Refer to
The only diﬀerence is that a stronger hash algorithm and keyed MAC, SHA-256 / HMAC-
SHA-256, is used instead of SHA-1 / HMAC-SHA-1.

[RFC4187], Section 12

, for further details.

Replay protection

Under the SHA-256 assumption, the properties of EAP-AKA' are at least as good as those of EAP-
AKA in this respect. Refer to

[RFC4187], Section 12

, for further details.

Arkko, et al.

Informational

Page 22

RFC 9048

EAP-AKA'

October 2021

Conﬁdentiality

The properties of EAP-AKA' are exactly the same as those of EAP-AKA in this respect. Refer to
[RFC4187], Section 12

, for further details.

Key derivation

EAP-AKA' supports key derivation with an eﬀective key strength against brute-force attacks
equal to the minimum of the length of the derived keys and the length of the AKA base key, i.e.,
128 bits or more. The key hierarchy is speciﬁed in Section 3.3.

The Transient EAP Keys used to protect EAP-AKA packets (K_encr, K_aut, K_re), the MSK, and
the EMSK are cryptographically separate. If we make the assumption that SHA-256 behaves as
a pseudorandom function, an attacker is incapable of deriving any non-trivial information
about any of these keys based on the other keys. An attacker also cannot calculate the pre-
shared secret from IK, CK, IK', CK', K_encr, K_aut, K_re, MSK, or EMSK by any practically
feasible means.

EAP-AKA' adds an additional layer of key derivation functions within itself to protect against
the use of compromised keys. This is discussed further in Section 7.4.

EAP-AKA' uses a pseudorandom function modeled after the one used in IKEv2
together with SHA-256.

[RFC7296]

Key strength

See above.

Dictionary attack resistance

Under the SHA-256 assumption, the properties of EAP-AKA' are at least as good as those of EAP-
AKA in this respect. Refer to

[RFC4187], Section 12

, for further details.

Fast reconnect

Under the SHA-256 assumption, the properties of EAP-AKA' are at least as good as those of EAP-
AKA in this respect. Refer to
implementations

 prevent performing a fast reconnect across method types.

, for further details. Note that

[RFC4187], Section 12

MUST

Cryptographic binding

Note that this term refers to a very speciﬁc form of binding, something that is performed
between two layers of authentication. It is not the same as the binding to a particular network
name. The properties of EAP-AKA' are exactly the same as those of EAP-AKA in this respect, i.e.,
as it is not a tunnel method, this property is not applicable to it. Refer to
,
[RFC4187], Section 12
for further details.

Session independence

The properties of EAP-AKA' are exactly the same as those of EAP-AKA in this respect. Refer to
[RFC4187], Section 12

, for further details.

Fragmentation

The properties of EAP-AKA' are exactly the same as those of EAP-AKA in this respect. Refer to
[RFC4187], Section 12

, for further details.

Arkko, et al.

Informational

Page 23

RFC 9048

EAP-AKA'

October 2021

Channel binding

EAP-AKA', like EAP-AKA, does not provide channel bindings as they're deﬁned in
[RFC5247]
if required.

. New skippable attributes can be used to add channel binding support in the future,

[RFC3748]

 and

However, including the Network Name ﬁeld in the AKA' algorithms (which are also used for
other purposes than EAP-AKA') provides a form of cryptographic separation between diﬀerent
network names, which resembles channel bindings. However, the network name does not
typically identify the EAP (pass-through) authenticator. See Section 7.4 for more discussion.

7.1.  Privacy

[RFC6973]

 suggests that the privacy considerations of IETF protocols be documented.

The conﬁdentiality properties of EAP-AKA' itself have been discussed above under
"Conﬁdentiality" (Section 7)

.

RECOMMENDED

 to use the privacy-friendly temporary or hidden identiﬁers, i.e., the 5G

EAP-AKA' uses several diﬀerent types of identiﬁers to identify the authenticating peer. It is
strongly
GUTI or SUCI, pseudonym usernames, and fast re-authentication usernames. The use of
permanent identiﬁers such as the IMSI or SUPI may lead to an ability to track the peer and/or
user associated with the peer. The use of permanent identiﬁers such as the IMSI or SUPI is
strongly

.
NOT RECOMMENDED

As discussed in Section 5.3, when authenticating to a 5G network, only the SUCI identiﬁer is
normally used. The use of EAP-AKA' pseudonyms in this situation is at best limited because the
SUCI already provides a stronger mechanism. In fact, reusing the same pseudonym multiple
times will result in a tracking opportunity for observers that see the pseudonym pass by. To avoid
this, the peer and server need to follow the guidelines given in Section 5.2.

When authenticating to a 5G network, per Section 5.3.1, both the EAP-AKA' peer and server need to
employ the permanent identiﬁer SUPI as an input to key derivation. However, this use of the SUPI
is only internal. As such, the SUPI need not be communicated in EAP messages. Therefore, SUPI
MUST NOT

 be communicated in EAP-AKA' when authenticating to a 5G network.

While the use of SUCI in 5G networks generally provides identity privacy, this is not true if the
null-scheme encryption is used to construct the SUCI (see
this scheme makes the use of SUCI equivalent to the use of SUPI or IMSI. The use of the null
scheme is

 where identity privacy is important.

NOT RECOMMENDED

[TS-3GPP.33.501]

, Annex C). The use of

The use of fast re-authentication identities when authenticating to a 5G network does not have
the same problems as the use of pseudonyms, as long as the 5G authentication server generates
the fast re-authentication identiﬁers in a proper manner speciﬁed in Section 5.2.

Arkko, et al.

Informational

Page 24

RFC 9048

EAP-AKA'

October 2021

Outside 5G, the peer can freely choose between the use of permanent, pseudonym, or fast re-
authentication identiﬁers:

•

A peer that has not yet performed any EAP-AKA' exchanges does not typically have a
pseudonym available. If the peer does not have a pseudonym available, then the privacy
mechanism cannot be used, and the permanent identity will have to be sent in the clear.

SHOULD

 store the pseudonym in nonvolatile memory so that it can be

The terminal
maintained across reboots. An active attacker that impersonates the network may use the
AT_PERMANENT_ID_REQ attribute (
) to learn the subscriber's IMSI.
However, as discussed in
cleartext permanent identity if it believes that the network should be able to recognize the
pseudonym.

, the terminal can refuse to send the

[RFC4187], Section 4.1.2

[RFC4187], Section 4.1.2

•

When pseudonyms and fast re-authentication identities are used, the peer relies on the
properly created identiﬁers by the server.

It is essential that an attacker cannot link a privacy-friendly identiﬁer to the user in any way
or determine that two identiﬁers belong to the same user as outlined in Section 5.2. The
pseudonym usernames and fast re-authentication identities
purposes (e.g., in other protocols).

 be used for other

MUST NOT

If the peer and server cannot guarantee that SUCI can be used or that pseudonyms will be
available, generated properly, and maintained reliably, and identity privacy is required, then
additional protection from an external security mechanism such as tunneled EAP methods like
Tunneled Transport Layer Security (TTLS)
[RFC5281]
Protocol (TEAP)
[RFC7170]
external security mechanism with EAP-AKA are beyond the scope of this document.

 may be used. The beneﬁts and the security considerations of using an

 or Tunnel Extensible Authentication

Finally, as with other EAP methods, even when privacy-friendly identiﬁers or EAP tunneling is
used, typically the domain part of an identiﬁer (e.g., the home operator) is visible to external
parties.

7.2.  Discovered Vulnerabilities

There have been no published attacks that violate the primary secrecy or authentication
properties deﬁned for Authentication and Key Agreement (AKA) under the originally assumed
trust model. The same is true of EAP-AKA'.

However, there have been attacks when a diﬀerent trust model is in use, with characteristics not
originally provided by the design, or when participants in the protocol leak information to
outsiders on purpose, and there have been some privacy-related attacks.

For instance, the original AKA protocol does not prevent an insider supplying keys to a third
 and Tsay in
party, e.g., as described by
authentication run succeed, but then it misuses the session keys to send traﬃc on the
authenticated user's behalf. This particular attack is not diﬀerent from any on-path entity (such
as a router) pretending to send traﬃc, but the general issue of insider attacks can be a problem,
particularly in a large group of collaborating operators.

 where a serving network lets an

[MT2012]

Mjølsnes

Arkko, et al.

Informational

Page 25

RFC 9048

EAP-AKA'

October 2021

[ZF2005]

 to leverage security policy diﬀerences between diﬀerent operator

Another class of attacks is the use of tunneling of traﬃc from one place to another, e.g., as done
by Zhang and Fang in
networks, for instance. To gain something in such an attack, the attacker needs to trick the user
into believing it is in another location. If policies between locations diﬀer, for instance, if payload
traﬃc is not required to be encrypted in some location, the attacker may trick the user into
opening a vulnerability. As an authentication mechanism, EAP-AKA' is not directly aﬀected by
most of these attacks. EAP-AKA' network name binding can also help alleviate some of the
attacks. In any case, it is recommended that EAP-AKA' conﬁguration not be dependent on the
location of request origin, unless the location information can be cryptographically conﬁrmed,
e.g., with the network name binding.

. A serving network may request
Zhang and Fang also looked at denial-of-service attacks
large numbers of authentication runs for a particular subscriber from a home network. While the
resynchronization process can help recover from this, eventually it is possible to exhaust the
sequence number space and render the subscriber's card unusable. This attack is possible for both
original AKA and EAP-AKA'. However, it requires the collaboration of a serving network in an
attack. It is recommended that EAP-AKA' implementations provide the means to track, detect,
and limit excessive authentication attempts to combat this problem.

[ZF2005]

). Some of those attacks relate to the use of HTTP Digest AKAv1

There have also been attacks related to the use of AKA without the generated session keys (e.g.,
[BT2013]
originally vulnerable to man-in-the-middle attacks. This has since been corrected in
The EAP-AKA' protocol uses session keys and provides channel binding, and as such, it is resistant
to the above attacks except where the protocol participants leak information to outsiders.

, which was

[RFC3310]

[RFC4169]

.

Basin, et al.
would have beneﬁted from additional security requirements such as key conﬁrmation.

 have performed formal analysis and concluded that the AKA protocol

[Basin2018]

In the context of pervasive monitoring revelations, there were also reports of compromised long-
term pre-shared keys used in SIM and AKA
. While no protocol can survive the theft of
[Heist2015]
key material associated with its credentials, there are some things that alleviate the impacts in
such situations. These are discussed further in Section 7.3.

[Arapinis2012]

Arapinis, et al.
attempt to detect whether a particular subscriber is in a given area. This attack depends on the
attacker setting up a false base station in the given area and on the subscriber performing at least
one authentication between the time the attack is set up and run.

 describe an attack that uses the AKA resynchronization protocol to

Arkko, et al.

Informational

Page 26

RFC 9048

EAP-AKA'

October 2021

[Borgaonkar2018]

Borgaonkar, et al. discovered that the AKA resynchronization protocol may also be used to
predict the authentication frequency of a subscriber if a non-time-based sequence number (SQN)
generation scheme is used
. The attacker can force the reuse of the keystream
that is used to protect the SQN in the AKA resynchronization protocol. The attacker then guesses
the authentication frequency based on the lowest bits of two XORed SQNs. The researchers'
concern was that the authentication frequency would reveal some information about the phone
usage behavior, e.g., number of phone calls made or number of SMS messages sent. There are a
number of possible triggers for authentication, so such an information leak is not direct, but it
can be a concern. The impact of the attack diﬀers depending on whether the SQN generation
scheme that is used is time-based or not.

Similar attacks are possible outside AKA in the cellular paging protocols where the attacker can
simply send application-layer data, send short messages, or make phone calls to the intended
victim and observe the air interface (e.g.,
[Kune2012]
demonstrated a slightly more sophisticated version of the attack that exploits the fact that the 4G
paging protocol uses the IMSI to calculate the paging timeslot
outside AKA, it does not impact EAP-AKA'.

. As this attack is

). Hussain, et al.

[Hussain2019]

[Shaik2016]

 and

Finally, bad implementations of EAP-AKA' may not produce pseudonym usernames or fast re-
authentication identities in a manner that is suﬃciently secure. While it is not a problem with the
protocol itself, following the recommendations in Section 5.2 can mitigate this concern.

7.3.  Pervasive Monitoring

As required by
monitoring and mitigate them when possible.

[RFC7258]

, work on IETF protocols needs to consider the eﬀects of pervasive

As described in Section 7.2, after the publication of RFC 5448, new information has come to light
regarding the use of pervasive monitoring techniques against many security technologies,
including AKA-based authentication.

For AKA, these attacks relate to theft of the long-term, shared-secret key material stored on the
cards. Such attacks are conceivable, for instance, during the manufacturing process of cards,
through coercion of the card manufacturers, or during the transfer of cards and associated
information to an operator. Since the publication of reports about such attacks, manufacturing
and provisioning processes have gained much scrutiny and have improved.

In particular, it is crucial that manufacturers limit access to the secret information and the cards
only to necessary systems and personnel. It is also crucial that secure mechanisms be used to
store and communicate the secrets between the manufacturer and the operator that adopts those
cards for their customers.

Beyond these operational considerations, there are also technical means to improve resistance
to these attacks. One approach is to provide Perfect Forward Secrecy (PFS). This would prevent
any passive attacks merely based on the long-term secrets and observation of traﬃc. Such a
mechanism can be deﬁned as a backwards-compatible extension of EAP-AKA' and is pursued

Arkko, et al.

Informational

Page 27

RFC 9048

EAP-AKA'

October 2021

separately from this speciﬁcation
run inside a PFS-capable, tunneled authentication method. In any case, the use of some PFS-
capable mechanism is recommended.

. Alternatively, EAP-AKA' authentication can be

[EMU-AKA-PFS]

7.4.  Security Properties of Binding Network Names

The ability of EAP-AKA' to bind the network name into the used keys provides some additional
protection against key leakage to inappropriate parties. The keys used in the protocol are speciﬁc
to a particular network name. If key leakage occurs due to an accident, access node compromise,
or another attack, the leaked keys are only useful when providing access with that name. For
instance, a malicious access point cannot claim to be network Y if it has stolen keys from
network X. Obviously, if an access point is compromised, the malicious node can still represent
the compromised node. As a result, neither EAP-AKA' nor any other extension can prevent such
attacks; however, the binding to a particular name limits the attacker's choices, allows better
tracking of attacks, makes it possible to identify compromised networks, and applies good
cryptographic hygiene.

The server receives the EAP transaction from a given access network, and veriﬁes that the claim
from the access network corresponds to the name that this access network should be using. It
becomes impossible for an access network to claim over AAA that it is another access network. In
addition, if the peer checks that the information it has received locally over the network-access
link-layer matches with the information the server has given it via EAP-AKA', it becomes
impossible for the access network to tell one story to the AAA network and another one to the
peer. These checks prevent some "lying NAS" (Network Access Server) attacks. For instance, a
roaming partner, R, might claim that it is the home network H in an eﬀort to lure peers to connect
to itself. Such an attack would be beneﬁcial for the roaming partner if it can attract more users,
and damaging for the users if their access costs in R are higher than those in other alternative
networks, such as H.

Any attacker who gets hold of the keys CK and IK, produced by the AKA algorithm, can compute
the keys CK' and IK' and, hence, the Master Key (MK) according to the rules in Section 3.3. The
attacker could then act as a lying NAS. In 3GPP systems in general, the keys CK and IK have been
distributed to, for instance, nodes in a visited access network where they may be vulnerable. In
order to reduce this risk, the AKA algorithm
1, and the peer
[TS-3GPP.33.402]
subscriber system.

MUST
 requires that no CK or IK keys computed in this way ever leave the home

 check that this is indeed the case whenever it runs EAP-AKA'. Furthermore,

 be computed with the AMF separation bit set to

MUST

. Ideally, the names allow separating each diﬀerent access technology, each diﬀerent access

The additional security beneﬁts obtained from the binding depend obviously on the way names
are assigned to diﬀerent access networks. This is speciﬁed in
[TS-3GPP.
23.003]
network, and each diﬀerent NAS within a domain. If this is not possible, the full beneﬁts may not
be achieved. For instance, if the names identify just an access technology, use of compromised
keys in a diﬀerent technology can be prevented, but it is not possible to prevent their use by other
domains or devices using the same technology.

[TS-3GPP.24.302]

. See also

Arkko, et al.

Informational

Page 28

RFC 9048

EAP-AKA'

October 2021

8.  IANA Considerations

IANA has updated the "Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP) Registry" and the "EAP-AKA and
EAP-SIM Parameters" registry so that entries that pointed to RFC 5448 now point to this RFC
instead.

8.1.  Type Value

IANA has updated the reference for EAP-AKA' (0x32) in the "Method Types" subregistry under the
"Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP) Registry" to point to this document. Per
Section 6.2 of
[RFC3748]

, this allocation can be made with Speciﬁcation Required

[RFC8126]

.

8.2.  Attribute Type Values

EAP-AKA' shares its attribute space and subtypes with EAP-SIM
No new registries are needed.

[RFC4186]

 and EAP-AKA

[RFC4187]

.

IANA has updated the reference for AT_KDF_INPUT (23) and AT_KDF (24) in the "Attribute Types
(Non-Skippable Attributes 0-127)" subregistry under the "EAP-AKA and EAP-SIM Parameters"
registry to point to this document. AT_KDF_INPUT and AT_KDF are deﬁned in Sections 3.1 and 3.2,
respectively, of this document.

IANA has also updated the reference for AT_BIDDING (136) in the "Attribute Types (Skippable
Attributes 128-255)" subregistry of the "EAP-AKA and EAP-SIM Parameters" registry to point to this
document. AT_BIDDING is deﬁned in Section 4.

8.3.  Key Derivation Function Namespace

IANA has updated the reference for the "EAP-AKA' AT_KDF Key Derivation Function Values"
subregistry to point to this document. This subregistry appears under the "EAP-AKA and EAP-SIM
Parameters" registry. The references for following entries have also been updated to point to this
document. New values can be created through the Speciﬁcation Required policy

[RFC8126]

.

Value Description

Reference

0

1

Reserved

RFC 9048

EAP-AKA' with CK'/IK'

RFC 9048

Table 3: EAP-AKA' AT_KDF Key Derivation
Function Values

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

Arkko, et al.

Informational

Page 29

RFC 9048

EAP-AKA'

October 2021

[FIPS.180-4]

[RFC2104]

[RFC2119]

[RFC3748]

[RFC4187]

[RFC7542]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

National Institute of Standards and Technology "Secure Hash Standard" FIPS
PUB 180-4 DOI 10.6028/NIST.FIPS.180-4
nistpubs/FIPS/NIST.FIPS.180-4.pdf>
.

<https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/

, August 2015,

,

,

,

,

Krawczyk, H. Bellare, M.
Authentication" RFC 2104 DOI 10.17487/RFC2104
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2104>
.

, and
,

,

R. Canetti "HMAC: Keyed-Hashing for Message

, February 1997,

<https://

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
,
rfc2119>
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

Aboba, B. Blunk, L. Vollbrecht, J. Carlson, J.
Authentication Protocol (EAP)" RFC 3748 DOI 10.17487/RFC3748
,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3748>
.

, and

,

,

H. Levkowetz, Ed. "Extensible

,

, June 2004,

 and

H. Haverinen "Extensible Authentication Protocol Method for 3rd

Arkko, J.
Generation Authentication and Key Agreement (EAP-AKA)" RFC 4187 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4187>
10.17487/RFC4187
.

, January 2006,

,

,

,

DeKok, A. "The Network Access Identiﬁer" RFC 7542 DOI 10.17487/RFC7542
2015,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7542>

,

,

,

, May

,
Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

, June

,
,
Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
.
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

[TS-3GPP.23.003]

3GPP "3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical Speciﬁcation Group

,

Core Network and Terminals; Numbering, addressing and identiﬁcation (Release
16)" Version 16.7.0 3GPP Technical Speciﬁcation 23.003

, June 2021.

,

,

[TS-3GPP.23.501]

3GPP "3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical Speciﬁcation Group

,

Services and System Aspects; System architecture for the 5G System (5GS);
, June 2021.
(Release 16)" Version 16.9.0 3GPP Technical Speciﬁcation 23.501

,

,

[TS-3GPP.24.302]

,

3GPP "3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical Speciﬁcation Group
Core Network and Terminals; Access to the 3GPP Evolved Packet Core (EPC) via
non-3GPP access networks; Stage 3; (Release 16)" Version 16.4.0 3GPP Technical
Speciﬁcation 24.302

, July 2020.

,

,

[TS-3GPP.24.501]

,

3GPP "3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical Speciﬁcation Group
Core Network and Terminals; Non-Access-Stratum (NAS) protocol for 5G System
(5GS); Stage 3; (Release 16)" Version 16.9.0 3GPP Draft Technical Speciﬁcation
24.501

, June 2021.

,

,

Arkko, et al.

Informational

Page 30

RFC 9048

EAP-AKA'

October 2021

[TS-3GPP.33.102]

,

3GPP "3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical Speciﬁcation Group
Services and System Aspects; 3G Security; Security architecture (Release 16)"
,
Version 16.0.0 3GPP Technical Speciﬁcation 33.102

, July 2020.

,

[TS-3GPP.33.402]

3GPP "3GPP System Architecture Evolution (SAE); Security aspects of

,

non-3GPP accesses (Release 16)" Version 16.0.0 3GPP Technical Speciﬁcation
33.402

, July 2020.

,

,

[TS-3GPP.33.501]

,

3GPP "3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical Speciﬁcation Group
Services and System Aspects; 3G Security; Security architecture and procedures
for 5G System (Release 16)" Version 16.7.1 3GPP Technical Speciﬁcation 33.501
,
July 2021.

,

,

9.2.  Informative References

[Arapinis2012]

[Basin2018]

,
,

Arapinis, M. Mancini, L. Ritter, E. Ryan, M. Golde, N. Redon, R.

,

,

,

,

, and

R.

Borgaonkar "New Privacy Issues in Mobile Telephony: Fix and Veriﬁcation" in
CCS '12: Proceedings of the 2012 ACM Conference on Computer and
Communications Security, Raleigh, North Carolina, USA DOI
10.1145/2382196.2382221

<https://doi.org/10.1145/2382196.2382221>
.

, October 2012,

,

,

,

Basin, D. Dreier, J. Hirschi, L. Radomirović, S. Sasse, R.
,
Analysis of 5G Authentication" arXiv:1806.10360 DOI 10.1145/3243734.3243846
August 2018,

.
<https://doi.org/10.1145/3243734.3243846>

,
V. Stettler "A Formal

, and

,

,

,

,

,

[Borgaonkar2018]

Borgaonkar, R. Hirschi, L. Park, S.
,

,

,

4G, and Upcoming 5G AKA Protocols" in IACR Cryptology ePrint Archive

, 2018.

, and

A. Shaik "New Privacy Threat on 3G,

,

[BT2013]

[EMU-AKA-PFS]

[FIPS.180-1]

[FIPS.180-2]

[Heist2015]

 and

Beekman, J. G.
Vulnerabilities in AKA, IMS and Android" in 7th USENIX Workshop on Oﬀensive
Technologies, WOOT '13

C. Thompson "Breaking Cell Phone Authentication:

, August 2013.

,

,

Arkko, J. Norrman, K.

,

, and

V. Torvinen "Perfect-Forward Secrecy for the

,

Extensible Authentication Protocol Method for Authentication and Key
Agreement (EAP-AKA' PFS)" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-emu-aka-
pfs-05
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-emu-aka-
.
pfs-05>

, 30 October 2020,

,

,

,
National Institute of Standards and Technology "Secure Hash Standard" FIPS
, April 1995,
<https://csrc.nist.gov/
PUB 180-1 DOI 10.6028/NIST.FIPS.180-1
.
publications/detail/ﬁps/180/1/archive/1995-04-17>

,

,

National Institute of Standards and Technology "Secure Hash Standard" FIPS
PUB 180-2
.
archive/2002-08-01>

,
,
<https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/detail/ﬁps/180/2/

, August 2002,

Scahill, J.
February 2015,

 and

,
J. Begley "How Spies Stole the Keys to the Encryption Castle"

,

.
<https://ﬁrstlook.org/theintercept/2015/02/19/great-sim-heist/>

Arkko, et al.

Informational

Page 31

RFC 9048

EAP-AKA'

October 2021

[Hussain2019]

[Kune2012]

[MT2012]

[RFC3310]

[RFC4086]

[RFC4169]

[RFC4186]

[RFC4284]

[RFC4306]

[RFC5113]

[RFC5247]

,

Hussain, S. Echeverria, M. Chowdhury, O. Li, N.
to the 4G and 5G Cellular Paging Protocols Using Side Channel Information" in
the proceedings of NDSS '19, held 24-27 February, 2019, San Diego, California

E. Bertino "Privacy Attacks

,
, 2019.

, and

,

,

,

,

Kune, D. Koelndorfer, J. Hopper, N.
, and
Interface" in the proceedings of NDSS '12, held 5-8 February, 2012, San Diego,
California

Y. Kim "Location Leaks on the GSM Air

,
, 2012.

,

,

,

 and

J-K. Tsay "A Vulnerability in the UMTS and LTE Authentication
Mjølsnes, S. F.
and Key Agreement Protocols" in Computer Network Security, Proceedings of the
6th International Conference on Mathematical Methods, Models and
Architectures for Computer Network Security, Lecture Notes in Computer
Science, Vol. 7531, pp. 65-76 DOI 10.1007/978-3-642-33704-8_6
, October 2012,
<https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-33704-8_6>
.

,

,

,
Niemi, A. Arkko, J.
V. Torvinen "Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) Digest
Authentication Using Authentication and Key Agreement (AKA)" RFC 3310 DOI
10.17487/RFC3310

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3310>

, September 2002,

, and

,

,

,

Eastlake 3rd, D. Schiller, J.
Security" BCP 106 RFC 4086 DOI 10.17487/RFC4086
.
editor.org/info/rfc4086>

, and
,

,

,

,

S. Crocker "Randomness Requirements for

, June 2005,

<https://www.rfc-

,

, and

Torvinen, V. Arkko, J.
Digest Authentication Using Authentication and Key Agreement (AKA)
,
Version-2" RFC 4169 DOI 10.17487/RFC4169
.
editor.org/info/rfc4169>

M. Naslund "Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP)

, November 2005,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

 and

,
J. Salowey, Ed. "Extensible Authentication Protocol
Haverinen, H., Ed.
Method for Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM) Subscriber
Identity Modules (EAP-SIM)" RFC 4186 DOI 10.17487/RFC4186
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4186>

, January 2006,

,

,

,

P. Eronen "Identity Selection Hints for the
Adrangi, F. Lortz, V. Bari, F.
,
Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP)" RFC 4284 DOI 10.17487/RFC4284
January 2006,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4284>

, and

,
,

,

,

,
Kaufman, C., Ed. "Internet Key Exchange (IKEv2) Protocol" RFC 4306 DOI
10.17487/RFC4306

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4306>

, December 2005,

,

,

,

Arkko, J. Aboba, B. Korhonen, J., Ed.
Selection Problem" RFC 5113 DOI 10.17487/RFC5113
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5113>

, and

,
,

,

,

F. Bari "Network Discovery and

, January 2008,

<https://

,
Aboba, B. Simon, D.
,
,
Key Management Framework" RFC 5247 DOI 10.17487/RFC5247
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5247>

P. Eronen "Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP)
, August 2008,

, and

,

Arkko, et al.

Informational

Page 32

RFC 9048

EAP-AKA'

October 2021

[RFC5281]

[RFC5448]

[RFC6194]

[RFC6973]

[RFC7170]

[RFC7258]

[RFC7296]

[Shaik2016]

 and

S. Blake-Wilson "Extensible Authentication Protocol Tunneled
,

Funk, P.
Transport Layer Security Authenticated Protocol Version 0 (EAP-TTLSv0)" RFC
5281 DOI 10.17487/RFC5281
,
rfc5281>
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, August 2008,

,

,

, and

Arkko, J. Lehtovirta, V.
Protocol Method for 3rd Generation Authentication and Key Agreement (EAP-
AKA')" RFC 5448 DOI 10.17487/RFC5448
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/
,
info/rfc5448>
.

P. Eronen "Improved Extensible Authentication

, May 2009,

,

,

,

,

Polk, T. Chen, L. Turner, S.
SHA-0 and SHA-1 Message-Digest Algorithms" RFC 6194 DOI 10.17487/RFC6194
,
March 2011,

P. Hoﬀman "Security Considerations for the

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6194>
.

, and

,

,

,

,

Cooper, A. Tschofenig, H. Aboba, B. Peterson, J. Morris, J. Hansen, M.
,
Smith "Privacy Considerations for Internet Protocols" RFC 6973 DOI 10.17487/
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6973>
RFC6973
.

, July 2013,

, and

R.

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Zhou, H. Cam-Winget, N. Salowey, J.
Authentication Protocol (TEAP) Version 1" RFC 7170 DOI 10.17487/RFC7170
2014,

S. Hanna "Tunnel Extensible
,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7170>

, and

,

,

,

, May

Farrell, S.
,
7258 DOI 10.17487/RFC7258

H. Tschofenig "Pervasive Monitoring Is an Attack" BCP 188 RFC
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7258>

,
, May 2014,

 and

,

,

,

Kaufman, C. Hoﬀman, P. Nir, Y. Eronen, P.
,
,
Exchange Protocol Version 2 (IKEv2)" STD 79 RFC 7296 DOI 10.17487/RFC7296
October 2014,

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7296>

T. Kivinen "Internet Key

, and
,

,

,

,

,

Shaik, A. Seifert, J. Borgaonkar, R. Asokan, N.
against Privacy and Availability in 4G/LTE Mobile Communication Systems" in
the proceedings of NDSS '16 held 21-24 February, 2016, San Diego, California

V. Niemi "Practical attacks
,
, 2012.

, and

,

,

,

[TS-3GPP.35.208]

3GPP "3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical Speciﬁcation Group

,

Services and System Aspects; 3G Security; Speciﬁcation of the MILENAGE
Algorithm Set: An example algorithm set for the 3GPP authentication and key
generation functions f1, f1*, f2, f3, f4, f5 and f5*; Document 4: Design
Conformance Test Data (Release 14)" Version 16.0.0 3GPP Technical
Speciﬁcation 35.208

, July 2020.

,

,

[ZF2005]

,

 and

Y. Fang "Security analysis and enhancements of 3GPP

Zhang, M.
authentication and key agreement protocol" IEEE Transactions on Wireless
,
Communications, Vol. 4, No. 2 DOI 10.1109/TWC.2004.842941
.
doi.org/10.1109/TWC.2004.842941>

, March 2005,

,

<https://

Appendix A.  Changes from RFC 5448

The change from RFC 5448 was to refer to a newer version of
an updated deﬁnition of the Network Name ﬁeld to include 5G.

[TS-3GPP.24.302]

. This RFC includes

Arkko, et al.

Informational

Page 33

RFC 9048

EAP-AKA'

October 2021

Identiﬁer usage for 5G has been speciﬁed in Section 5.3. Also, the requirements for generating
pseudonym usernames and fast re-authentication identities have been updated from the original
deﬁnition in RFC 5448, which referenced RFC 4187. See Section 5.

Exported parameters for EAP-AKA' have been deﬁned in Section 6, as required by
including the deﬁnition of those parameters for both full authentication and fast re-
authentication.

[RFC5247]

,

The security, privacy, and pervasive monitoring considerations have been updated or added. See
Section 7.

[RFC2119] [RFC4306] [RFC7296] [FIPS.180-1]
,

The references to
updated to their most recent versions, and language in this document has been changed
accordingly. However, these are merely reference updates to newer speciﬁcations; the actual
protocol functions are the same as deﬁned in the earlier RFCs.

[FIPS.180-2]

 have been

 and

,

,

Similarly, references to all 3GPP technical speciﬁcations have been updated to their 5G versions
(Release 16) or otherwise most recent version when there has not been a 5G-related update.

Finally, a number of clariﬁcations have been made, including a summary of where attributes
may appear.

Appendix B.  Changes to RFC 4187

In addition to specifying EAP-AKA', this document also mandates a change to another EAP
method -- EAP-AKA that was deﬁned in RFC 4187. This change was already mandated in RFC 5448
but repeated here to ensure that the latest EAP-AKA' speciﬁcation contains the instructions about
the necessary bidding down prevention feature in EAP-AKA as well.

The changes to RFC 4187 relate only to the bidding down prevention support deﬁned in Section 4.
In particular, this document does not change how the Master Key (MK) is calculated or any other
aspect of EAP-AKA. The provisions in this speciﬁcation for EAP-AKA' do not apply to EAP-AKA,
outside of Section 4.

Appendix C.  Importance of Explicit Negotiation

Choosing between the traditional and revised AKA key derivation functions is easy when their use
is unambiguously tied to a particular radio access network, e.g., Long Term Evolution (LTE) as
deﬁned by 3GPP or evolved High Rate Packet Data (eHRPD) as deﬁned by 3GPP2. There is no
possibility for interoperability problems if this radio access network is always used in
conjunction with new protocols that cannot be mixed with the old ones; clients will always know
whether they are connecting to the old or new system.

However, using the new key derivation functions over EAP introduces several degrees of
separation, making the choice of the correct key derivation functions much harder. Many
diﬀerent types of networks employ EAP. Most of these networks have no means to carry any
information about what is expected from the authentication process. EAP itself is severely limited

Arkko, et al.

Informational

Page 34

RFC 9048

EAP-AKA'

October 2021

in carrying any additional information, as noted in
networks or EAP were extended to carry additional information, it would not aﬀect millions of
deployed access networks and clients attaching to them.

. Even if these

[RFC5113]

[RFC4284]

 and

[RFC4187]

 uses would cause

Simply changing the key derivation functions that EAP-AKA
interoperability problems with all of the existing implementations. Perhaps it would be possible
to employ strict separation into domain names that should be used by the new clients and
networks. Only these new devices would then employ the new key derivation function. While this
can be made to work for speciﬁc cases, it would be an extremely brittle mechanism, ripe to result
in problems whenever client conﬁguration, routing of authentication requests, or server
conﬁguration does not match expectations. It also does not help to assume that the EAP client
and server are running a particular release of 3GPP network speciﬁcations. Network vendors
often provide features from future releases early or do not provide all features of the current
release. And obviously, there are many EAP and even some EAP-AKA implementations that are
not bundled with the 3GPP network oﬀerings. In general, these approaches are expected to lead to
hard-to-diagnose problems and increased support calls.

Appendix D.  Test Vectors

Test vectors are provided below for four diﬀerent cases. The test vectors may be useful for testing
implementations. In the ﬁrst two cases, we employ the MILENAGE algorithm and the algorithm
conﬁguration parameters (the subscriber key K and operator algorithm variant conﬁguration
value OP) from test set 19 in

[TS-3GPP.35.208]

.

The last two cases use artiﬁcial values as the output of AKA, which are useful only for testing the
computation of values within EAP-AKA', not AKA itself.

Case 1

Arkko, et al.

Informational

Page 35

RFC 9048

EAP-AKA'

October 2021

   The parameters for the AKA run are as follows:

      Identity:     "0555444333222111"

      Network name: "WLAN"

      RAND:         81e9 2b6c 0ee0 e12e bceb a8d9 2a99 dfa5

      AUTN:         bb52 e91c 747a c3ab 2a5c 23d1 5ee3 51d5

      IK:           9744 871a d32b f9bb d1dd 5ce5 4e3e 2e5a

      CK:           5349 fbe0 9864 9f94 8f5d 2e97 3a81 c00f

      RES:          28d7 b0f2 a2ec 3de5

   Then the derived keys are generated as follows:

      CK':          0093 962d 0dd8 4aa5 684b 045c 9edf fa04

      IK':          ccfc 230c a74f cc96 c0a5 d611 64f5 a76c

      K_encr:       766f a0a6 c317 174b 812d 52fb cd11 a179

      K_aut:        0842 ea72 2ff6 835b fa20 3249 9fc3 ec23
                    c2f0 e388 b4f0 7543 ffc6 77f1 696d 71ea

      K_re:         cf83 aa8b c7e0 aced 892a cc98 e76a 9b20
                    95b5 58c7 795c 7094 715c b339 3aa7 d17a

      MSK:          67c4 2d9a a56c 1b79 e295 e345 9fc3 d187
                    d42b e0bf 818d 3070 e362 c5e9 67a4 d544
                    e8ec fe19 358a b303 9aff 03b7 c930 588c
                    055b abee 58a0 2650 b067 ec4e 9347 c75a

      EMSK:         f861 703c d775 590e 16c7 679e a387 4ada
                    8663 11de 2907 64d7 60cf 76df 647e a01c
                    313f 6992 4bdd 7650 ca9b ac14 1ea0 75c4
                    ef9e 8029 c0e2 90cd bad5 638b 63bc 23fb

Case 2

Arkko, et al.

Informational

Page 36

RFC 9048

EAP-AKA'

October 2021

   The parameters for the AKA run are as follows:

      Identity:     "0555444333222111"

      Network name: "HRPD"

      RAND:         81e9 2b6c 0ee0 e12e bceb a8d9 2a99 dfa5

      AUTN:         bb52 e91c 747a c3ab 2a5c 23d1 5ee3 51d5

      IK:           9744 871a d32b f9bb d1dd 5ce5 4e3e 2e5a

      CK:           5349 fbe0 9864 9f94 8f5d 2e97 3a81 c00f

      RES:          28d7 b0f2 a2ec 3de5

   Then the derived keys are generated as follows:

      CK':          3820 f027 7fa5 f777 32b1 fb1d 90c1 a0da

      IK':          db94 a0ab 557e f6c9 ab48 619c a05b 9a9f

      K_encr:       05ad 73ac 915f ce89 ac77 e152 0d82 187b

      K_aut:        5b4a caef 62c6 ebb8 882b 2f3d 534c 4b35
                    2773 37a0 0184 f20f f25d 224c 04be 2afd

      K_re:         3f90 bf5c 6e5e f325 ff04 eb5e f653 9fa8
                    cca8 3981 94fb d00b e425 b3f4 0dba 10ac

      MSK:          87b3 2157 0117 cd6c 95ab 6c43 6fb5 073f
                    f15c f855 05d2 bc5b b735 5fc2 1ea8 a757
                    57e8 f86a 2b13 8002 e057 5291 3bb4 3b82
                    f868 a961 17e9 1a2d 95f5 2667 7d57 2900

      EMSK:         c891 d5f2 0f14 8a10 0755 3e2d ea55 5c9c
                    b672 e967 5f4a 66b4 bafa 0273 79f9 3aee
                    539a 5979 d0a0 042b 9d2a e28b ed3b 17a3
                    1dc8 ab75 072b 80bd 0c1d a612 466e 402c

Case 3

Arkko, et al.

Informational

Page 37

RFC 9048

EAP-AKA'

October 2021

   The parameters for the AKA run are as follows:

      Identity:     "0555444333222111"

      Network name: "WLAN"

      RAND:         e0e0 e0e0 e0e0 e0e0 e0e0 e0e0 e0e0 e0e0

      AUTN:         a0a0 a0a0 a0a0 a0a0 a0a0 a0a0 a0a0 a0a0

      IK:           b0b0 b0b0 b0b0 b0b0 b0b0 b0b0 b0b0 b0b0

      CK:           c0c0 c0c0 c0c0 c0c0 c0c0 c0c0 c0c0 c0c0

      RES:          d0d0 d0d0 d0d0 d0d0 d0d0 d0d0 d0d0 d0d0

   Then the derived keys are generated as follows:

      CK':          cd4c 8e5c 68f5 7dd1 d7d7 dfd0 c538 e577

      IK':          3ece 6b70 5dbb f7df c459 a112 80c6 5524

      K_encr:       897d 302f a284 7416 488c 28e2 0dcb 7be4

      K_aut:        c407 00e7 7224 83ae 3dc7 139e b0b8 8bb5
                    58cb 3081 eccd 057f 9207 d128 6ee7 dd53

      K_re:         0a59 1a22 dd8b 5b1c f29e 3d50 8c91 dbbd
                    b4ae e230 5189 2c42 b6a2 de66 ea50 4473

      MSK:          9f7d ca9e 37bb 2202 9ed9 86e7 cd09 d4a7
                    0d1a c76d 9553 5c5c ac40 a750 4699 bb89
                    61a2 9ef6 f3e9 0f18 3de5 861a d1be dc81
                    ce99 1639 1b40 1aa0 06c9 8785 a575 6df7

      EMSK:         724d e00b db9e 5681 87be 3fe7 4611 4557
                    d501 8779 537e e37f 4d3c 6c73 8cb9 7b9d
                    c651 bc19 bfad c344 ffe2 b52c a78b d831
                    6b51 dacc 5f2b 1440 cb95 1552 1cc7 ba23

Case 4

Arkko, et al.

Informational

Page 38

RFC 9048

EAP-AKA'

October 2021

   The parameters for the AKA run are as follows:

      Identity:     "0555444333222111"

      Network name: "HRPD"

      RAND:         e0e0 e0e0 e0e0 e0e0 e0e0 e0e0 e0e0 e0e0

      AUTN:         a0a0 a0a0 a0a0 a0a0 a0a0 a0a0 a0a0 a0a0

      IK:           b0b0 b0b0 b0b0 b0b0 b0b0 b0b0 b0b0 b0b0

      CK:           c0c0 c0c0 c0c0 c0c0 c0c0 c0c0 c0c0 c0c0

      RES:          d0d0 d0d0 d0d0 d0d0 d0d0 d0d0 d0d0 d0d0

   Then the derived keys are generated as follows:

      CK':          8310 a71c e6f7 5488 9613 da8f 64d5 fb46

      IK':          5adf 1436 0ae8 3819 2db2 3f6f cb7f 8c76

      K_encr:       745e 7439 ba23 8f50 fcac 4d15 d47c d1d9

      K_aut:        3e1d 2aa4 e677 025c fd86 2a4b e183 61a1
                    3a64 5765 5714 63df 833a 9759 e809 9879

      K_re:         99da 835e 2ae8 2462 576f e651 6fad 1f80
                    2f0f a119 1655 dd0a 273d a96d 04e0 fcd3

      MSK:          c6d3 a6e0 ceea 951e b20d 74f3 2c30 61d0
                    680a 04b0 b086 ee87 00ac e3e0 b95f a026
                    83c2 87be ee44 4322 94ff 98af 26d2 cc78
                    3bac e75c 4b0a f7fd feb5 511b a8e4 cbd0

      EMSK:         7fb5 6813 838a dafa 99d1 40c2 f198 f6da
                    cebf b6af ee44 4961 1054 02b5 08c7 f363
                    352c b291 9644 b504 63e6 a693 5415 0147
                    ae09 cbc5 4b8a 651d 8787 a689 3ed8 536d

Acknowledgments

,

,

Guenther Horn Joe Salowey Mats Naslund Adrian Escott Brian
,

The authors would like to thank
,
Rosenberg Laksminath Dondeti Ahmad Muhanna Stefan Rommer Miguel Garcia Jan Kall
,
Ankur Agarwal Jouni Malinen John Mattsson Jesus De Gregorio Brian Weis Russ Housley
,
,
Alfred Hoenes Anand Palanigounder Michael Richardson Roman Danyliw Dan Romascanu
,
Kyle Rose Benjamin Kaduk Alissa Cooper Erik Kline Murray Kucherawy Robert Wilton Warren
Kumari Andreas Kunz Marcus Wong Kalle Jarvinen Daniel Migault
 for their in-
depth reviews and interesting discussions in this problem space.

,
Mohit Sethi
, and

,
,

,
,

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Arkko, et al.

Informational

Page 39

RFC 9048

EAP-AKA'

October 2021

Contributors

The test vectors in Appendix D were provided by
independent implementations of this speciﬁcation.

Yogendra Pal

 and

Jouni Malinen

, based on two

Jouni Malinen
Section 7.1. Karl Norrman was the source of much of the information in Section 7.2.

 provided suggested text for Section 6.

John Mattsson

 provided much of the text for

Authors' Addresses

Jari Arkko
Ericsson
FI-
Finland
Email:

02420 Jorvas

 jari.arkko@piuha.net

Vesa Lehtovirta
Ericsson
FI-
Finland
Email:

02420 Jorvas

 vesa.lehtovirta@ericsson.com

Vesa Torvinen
Ericsson
FI-
Finland
Email:

02420 Jorvas

 vesa.torvinen@ericsson.com

Pasi Eronen
Independent
Finland
Email:

 pe@iki.ﬁ

Arkko, et al.

Informational

Page 40

