Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9027
Standards Track
June 2021
2070-1721
M. Dolly
AT&T

C. Wendt
Comcast

RFC 9027
Assertion Values for Resource Priority Header and
SIP Priority Header Claims in Support of Emergency
Services Networks

Abstract

This document adds new assertion values for a Resource Priority Header ("rph") claim and a new
SIP Priority Header ("sph") claim for protection of the "psap-callback" value as part of the "rph"
Personal Assertion Token (PASSporT) extension in support of the security of emergency services
networks for emergency call origination and callback.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9027

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Dolly & Wendt

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9027

RPH Values for Emergency Services

June 2021

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  New Assertion Values for "rph" Claim

4.  The SIP Priority Header ("sph") Claim

5.  Order of Claim Keys

6.  Compact Form of PASSporT

7.  IANA Considerations

7.1.  JSON Web Token Claims

8.  Security Considerations

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

"Personal Assertion Token (PASSporT) Extension for Resource Priority Authorization"
[RFC8225]
extended the Personal Assertion Token (PASSporT) speciﬁcation deﬁned in
the inclusion of cryptographically signed assertions of authorization for the values populated in
the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) 'Resource-Priority' header ﬁeld
CALLS]
and 'Priority' header ﬁelds, used for categorizing the priority use of the call in the telephone
network, speciﬁcally for emergency calls.

 introduces the need and justiﬁcation for the protection of both the SIP 'Resource-Priority'

[RFC4412] [EMERGENCY-

[RFC8443]
 to allow

.

Compromise of the SIP 'Resource-Priority' or 'Priority' header ﬁelds could lead to misuse of
network resources (i.e., during congestion scenarios), impacting the application services
supported using the SIP 'Resource-Priority' header ﬁeld and the handling of Public Safety
Answering Point (PSAP) callbacks.

Dolly & Wendt

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9027

RPH Values for Emergency Services

June 2021

 allows extensions by which an authority on the originating side verifying the

[RFC8225]
authorization of a particular communication for the SIP 'Resource-Priority' header ﬁeld or the
SIP 'Priority' header ﬁeld can use PASSporT claims to cryptographically sign the information
associated with either the SIP 'Resource-Priority' or the 'Priority' header ﬁeld and convey
assertion of those values by the signing party authorization. A signed SIP 'Resource-Priority' or
'Priority' header ﬁeld will allow a receiving entity (including entities located in diﬀerent network
domains/boundaries) to verify the validity of assertions to act on the information with
conﬁdence that it has not been spoofed or compromised.

[RFC8443]

, in support of emergency services networks for emergency call origination

This document adds new "auth" array key values for a Resource Priority Header ("rph") claim
deﬁned in
and callback. This document additionally deﬁnes a new PASSporT claim, "sph", including
protection of the SIP 'Priority' header ﬁeld for the indication of an emergency service callback
assigned the value "psap-callback", as deﬁned in
. The use of the newly deﬁned claim
and key values corresponding to the SIP 'Resource-Priority' and 'Priority' header ﬁelds for
 but otherwise is out of scope of this
emergency services is introduced in
[EMERGENCY-CALLS]
document. In addition, the PASSporT claims and values deﬁned in this document are intended
for use in environments where there are means to verify that the signer of the SIP 'Resource-
Priority' and 'Priority' header ﬁelds is authoritative.

[RFC7090]

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  New Assertion Values for "rph" Claim

This speciﬁcation deﬁnes the ability to sign the SIP 'Resource-Priority' header ﬁeld namespace
for local emergency communications deﬁned in
"esnet.x", where x is the priority level allowed in the esnet namespace. As of the writing of this
speciﬁcation, the priority level is between 0 and 4, inclusive, but may be extended by future
speciﬁcations.

 and represented by the string

[RFC7135]

Similar to the values deﬁned by
the string "esnet.x" with the appropriate value should be used when resource priority is required
for local emergency communications corresponding and exactly matching the SIP 'Resource-
Priority' header ﬁeld representing the namespace invoked in the call.

 for the "auth" JSON object key inside the "rph" claim,

[RFC8443]

MUST

When using "esnet.x" as the "auth" assertion value in emergency-service-destined calls, the "orig"
claim of the PASSporT
emergency services. The "dest" claim
"911" for North America or a "112" GSM-deﬁned string used in Europe and other countries) or
"urn:service:sos", as deﬁned in
call.

 represent the calling party number that initiates the call to

 be either a country- or region-speciﬁc dial string (e.g.,

, representing the emergency services destination of the

[RFC5031]

MUST

Dolly & Wendt

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9027

RPH Values for Emergency Services

June 2021

The following is an example of an "rph" claim for the SIP 'Resource-Priority' header ﬁeld with an
"esnet.1" assertion:

  {
    "dest":{"uri":["urn:service:sos"]},
    "iat":1615471428,
    "orig":{"tn":"12155551212"},
    "rph":{"auth":["esnet.1"]}
  }

For emergency services callbacks, the "orig" claim of the "rph" PASSporT
Public Safety Answering Point (PSAP) telephone number. The "dest" claim
number representing the original calling party of the emergency service call that is being called
back.

 represent the

 be the telephone

MUST

MUST

The following is an example of an "rph" claim for the SIP 'Resource-Priority' header ﬁeld with an
"esnet.0" assertion:

  {
    "dest":{"tn":["12155551212"]},
    "iat":1615471428,
    "orig":{"tn":"12155551213"},
    "rph":{"auth":["esnet.0"]}
  }

[RFC8225]

After the header and claims PASSporT objects have been constructed, their signature is
generated normally per the guidance in
, using the full form of PASSporT. The
credentials (i.e., Certiﬁcate) used to create the signature must have authority over the namespace
of the "rph" claim, and there is only one authority per claim. The authority
credentials associated with the speciﬁc service supported by the resource priority namespace in
the claim. If r-values are added or dropped by the intermediaries along the path, the
intermediaries must generate a new "rph" identity header and sign the claim with their own
authority.

 use its

MUST

4.  The SIP Priority Header ("sph") Claim

[RFC7090]

As deﬁned in
, the SIP 'Priority' header ﬁeld may be set to the value "psap-callback" for
emergency services callback calls. Because some SIP networks may act on this value and provide
priority or other special routing based on this value, it is important to protect and validate the
authoritative use associated with it.

Therefore, we deﬁne a new claim key as part of the "rph" PASSporT, "sph". This is an optional
claim that
authorized emergency callback call and corresponding to a SIP 'Priority' header ﬁeld with the
value "psap-callback".

 only be used with an "auth" claim with an "esnet.x" value indicating an

MUST

Dolly & Wendt

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9027

RPH Values for Emergency Services

June 2021

The value of the "sph" claim key should only be "psap-callback", which
'Priority' header ﬁeld value for authorized emergency services callbacks. If the value is anything
other than "psap-callback", the PASSporT validation

 be considered a failure case.

 match the SIP

MUST

MUST

Note that because the intended use of this speciﬁcation is only for emergency services, there is
also an explicit assumption that the signer of the "rph" PASSporT can authoritatively represent
both the content of the 'Resource-Priority' header ﬁeld and 'Priority' header ﬁeld information
associated speciﬁcally with an emergency services callback case where both could exist. This
document is not intended to be a general mechanism for protecting the SIP 'Priority' header
ﬁelds; this could be accomplished as part of future work with a new PASSporT extension or new
claim added to either an existing PASSporT or PASSporT extension usage.

The following is an example of an "sph" claim for the SIP 'Priority' header ﬁeld with the value
"psap-callback":

  {
    "dest":{"tn":["12155551212"]},
    "iat":1615471428,
    "orig":{"tn":"12155551213"},
    "rph":{"auth":["esnet.0"]},
    "sph":"psap-callback"
  }

5.  Order of Claim Keys

The order of the claim keys
deterministic JSON serialization used for signature generation (and validation); the claim keys
 appear in lexicographic order. Therefore, the claim keys discussed in this document
MUST
appear in the PASSporT Payload in the following order:

Section 9 of [RFC8225]

 follow the rules of

, which deﬁnes the

MUST

•

dest

•

iat

•

orig

•

rph

•

sph

6.  Compact Form of PASSporT

The use of the compact form of PASSporT is not speciﬁed in this document or recommended for
"rph" PASSporTs.

Dolly & Wendt

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9027

RPH Values for Emergency Services

June 2021

7.  IANA Considerations

7.1.  JSON Web Token Claims

This speciﬁcation requests that the IANA add one new claim to the "JSON Web Token Claims"
registry, as deﬁned in

[RFC7519]
.

sph
Claim Name:
SIP Priority header ﬁeld
Claim Description:
IESG
Change Controller:
Speciﬁcation Document(s):

RFC 9027

8.  Security Considerations

The security considerations discussed in
here.

[RFC8224] [RFC8225]
,

, and

[RFC8443]

 are applicable

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC4412]

[RFC5031]

[RFC7090]

[RFC7135]

[RFC7519]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

 and

Schulzrinne, H.
Initiation Protocol (SIP)" RFC 4412 DOI 10.17487/RFC4412
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4412>

,

,

.

,

J. Polk "Communications Resource Priority for the Session

, February 2006,

,

Schulzrinne, H. "A Uniform Resource Name (URN) for Emergency and Other
,
Well-Known Services" RFC 5031 DOI 10.17487/RFC5031
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5031>

, January 2008,

,

<https://

,

, and
Schulzrinne, H. Tschofenig, H. Holmberg, C.
,
,
Answering Point (PSAP) Callback" RFC 7090 DOI 10.17487/RFC7090
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7090>

M. Patel "Public Safety

,

.

,

, April 2014,

,

Polk, J. "Registering a SIP Resource Priority Header Field Namespace for Local
,
Emergency Communications" RFC 7135 DOI 10.17487/RFC7135
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7135>

, May 2014,

,

.

,
Jones, M. Bradley, J.
10.17487/RFC7519

, and

N. Sakimura "JSON Web Token (JWT)" RFC 7519 DOI

,

,

,

, May 2015,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7519>

.

Dolly & Wendt

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9027

RPH Values for Emergency Services

June 2021

[RFC8174]

[RFC8224]

[RFC8225]

[RFC8443]

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Peterson, J. Jennings, C. Rescorla, E.
, and
Management in the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)" RFC 8224 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8224

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8224>

C. Wendt "Authenticated Identity

, February 2018,

,

,

,

,

.

Wendt, C.
10.17487/RFC8225

J. Peterson "PASSporT: Personal Assertion Token" RFC 8225 DOI

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8225>

,
, February 2018,

 and

,

.

,

Singh, R. Dolly, M. Das, S.
Extension for Resource Priority Authorization" RFC 8443 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8443

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8443>

A. Nguyen "Personal Assertion Token (PASSporT)

, August 2018,

, and

,

,

,

,

.

9.2.  Informative References

[EMERGENCY-CALLS]

Rosen, B. "Non-Interactive Emergency Calls" Work in Progress

,

,

,

Internet-Draft, draft-rosen-stir-emergency-calls-00
tools.ietf.org/html/draft-rosen-stir-emergency-calls-00>

.

, 9 March 2020,

<https://

Acknowledgements

The authors would like to thank
suggestions, comments, and corrections.

Brian Rosen Terry Reese
,

, and

Jon Peterson

 for helpful

Authors' Addresses

Martin Dolly
AT&T
Email:

 md3135@att.com

Chris Wendt
Comcast
Comcast Technology Center
Philadelphia PA 19103
,
United States of America
Email:

 chris-ietf@chriswendt.net

Dolly & Wendt

Standards Track

Page 7

