Stream:
RFC:
Obsoletes:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9436
8736
3973, 5015, 5059, 6754, 7761, 8364
Standards Track
August 2023
2070-1721
S. Venaas
Cisco Systems, Inc.

A. Retana
Futurewei Technologies, Inc.

RFC 9436
PIM Message Type Space Extension and Reserved
Bits

Abstract

The PIM version 2 messages share a common message header format. The common header
definition contains eight reserved bits. This document specifies how these bits may be used by
individual message types and extends the PIM type space.

This document updates RFCs 7761 and 3973 by defining the use of the Reserved field in the PIM
common header. This document further updates RFCs 7761 and 3973, along with RFCs 5015,
5059, 6754, and 8364, by specifying the use of the bits for each PIM message.

This document obsoletes RFC 8736.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9436
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Venaas & Retana

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9436

PIM Type Extension and Reserved Bits

August 2023

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Conventions Used in This Document

3.  PIM Header Common Format

4.  Flag Bit Definitions

4.1.  Flag Bits for Type 4 (Bootstrap)

4.2.  Flag Bits for Type 10 (DF Election)

4.3.  Flag Bits for Type 12 (PIM Flooding Mechanism)

4.4.  Flag Bits for Types 13, 14, and 15 (Type Space Extension)

5.  PIM Type Space Extension

6.  Security Considerations

7.  IANA Considerations

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

8.2.  Informative References

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

2

3

3

3

4

4

4

4

4

5

5

6

6

7

7

The PIM version 2 messages share a common message header format defined in the PIM Sparse
Mode specification
all message types use this common header, there is no document formally specifying that these
bits are to be used per message type.

. The common header definition contains eight reserved bits. While

[RFC7761]

This document updates the definition of the Reserved field and refers to it as the "Flag Bits field".
It specifies that the flag bits are to be separately used on a per-message-type basis. It updates the
"PIM Message Types" registry to indicate the per-message-type usage.

Venaas & Retana

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9436

PIM Type Extension and Reserved Bits

August 2023

[RFC7761]

This document updates
PIM common header. This document further updates
[RFC5015] [RFC5059] [RFC6754]
message.

[RFC3973]

[RFC8364]

, and

 and

,

,

 by defining the use of the Reserved field in the

[RFC7761]

 and

[RFC3973]

, along with

, by specifying the use of the bits for each PIM

The originally defined PIM message types were in the range from 0 to 15. Message type 15 had
been reserved by
 for type space extension. In Section 5, this document specifies the
use of the Flag Bits field for message types 13, 14, and 15 in order to extend the PIM type space.
The type space extension in
[RFC8736]
.

 was made obsolete by

[RFC6166]

[RFC6166]

[RFC8736]

. This document obsoletes

2.  Conventions Used in This Document

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  PIM Header Common Format

The common PIM header is defined in
. This document updates the
definition of the Reserved field and refers to it as the "Flag Bits field". The updated common
header format is as below.

Section 4.9 of [RFC7761]

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|PIM Ver| Type  |   Flag Bits   |           Checksum            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 1: Updated Common Header

The Flag Bits field is defined in Section 4. All other fields remain unchanged.

4.  Flag Bit Definitions

Unless otherwise specified, all the flag bits for each PIM type are Unassigned
MUST
a new PIM type

MUST
 indicate whether the bits should be treated differently.

 be set to zero on transmission, and they

MUST

 be ignored upon receipt. The specification of

[RFC8126]

. They

When defining flag bits, it is helpful to have a well-defined way of referring to a particular bit.
The most significant of the flag bits, the bit immediately following the Type field, is referred to as
bit 7. The least significant, the bit right in front of the Checksum field, is referred to as bit 0. This
is shown in the diagram below.

Venaas & Retana

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9436

PIM Type Extension and Reserved Bits

August 2023

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|PIM Ver| Type  |7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0|           Checksum            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 2: Flag Bits

4.1.  Flag Bits for Type 4 (Bootstrap)

PIM message type 4 (Bootstrap)
defined in that document. The remaining flag bits are unassigned.

[RFC5059]

 defines flag bit 7 as No-Forward. The usage of the bit is

4.2.  Flag Bits for Type 10 (DF Election)

PIM message type 10 (DF Election)
4-7) are to be used as a subtype. The usage of those bits is defined in that document. The
remaining flag bits are unassigned.

 specifies that the four most significant flag bits (bits

[RFC5015]

4.3.  Flag Bits for Type 12 (PIM Flooding Mechanism)

PIM message type 12 (PIM Flooding Mechanism)
usage of the bit is defined in that document. The remaining flag bits are unassigned.

[RFC8364]

 defines flag bit 7 as No-Forward. The

4.4.  Flag Bits for Types 13, 14, and 15 (Type Space Extension)

These types and the corresponding flag bits are defined in Section 5.

5.  PIM Type Space Extension

This document extends types 13, 14, and 15 such that each becomes 16 new types, resulting in 48
types available for future PIM extensions. This extension is achieved by defining a Subtype field
(see Figure 3) using the four most significant flag bits (bits 4-7). The notation type.subtype is used
to reference the new extended types. The remaining four flag bits (bits 0-3, abbreviated as FB
below) are to be defined by each extended type.

Each of the extended types is represented by the eight bits resulting from the concatenation of
the Type and Subtype fields. No relationship is expected or implied between extended type
messages with a common Type field.

Venaas & Retana

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9436

PIM Type Extension and Reserved Bits

August 2023

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|PIM Ver| Type  |Subtype|  FB   |           Checksum            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 3: Subtypes

6.  Security Considerations

This document clarifies the use of the flag bits in the common PIM header, and it extends the PIM
[RFC7761]
type space. As such, there is no impact on security or changes to the considerations in
and

[RFC3973]
.

7.  IANA Considerations

This document updates the "PIM Message Types" registry to indicate which flag bits are defined
for use by each of the PIM message types and changes their registration status to Unassigned
except where the bits have already been specified, as shown in Table 1. The registration policy
[RFC8126]
remains IETF Review
. Assignments to this registry
(see Section 4) of the flag bits in addition to the type.

 define any non-default usage

MUST

Extended type 15.15 is Reserved

[RFC8126]

 for future extensions.

Because this document obsoletes
registry to point to this document instead.

[RFC8736]

, IANA has changed the references to

[RFC8736]

 in the

The updated "PIM Message Types" registry is shown below.

Type

Name

Flag Bits

Reference

0

1

2

3

4

5

6

Hello

Register

0-7: Unassigned

[RFC3973] [RFC7761]

0-7: Unassigned

[RFC7761]

Register Stop

0-7: Unassigned

[RFC7761]

Join/Prune

Bootstrap

Assert

Graft

0-7: Unassigned

[RFC3973] [RFC7761]

0-6: Unassigned

[RFC5059] [RFC7761]

7: No-Forward

[RFC5059]

0-7: Unassigned

[RFC3973] [RFC7761]

0-7: Unassigned

[RFC3973]

Venaas & Retana

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9436

PIM Type Extension and Reserved Bits

August 2023

Type

Name

Flag Bits

Reference

7

8

9

10

11

12

Graft-Ack

0-7: Unassigned

[RFC3973]

Candidate RP Advertisement

0-7: Unassigned

[RFC7761]

State Refresh

0-7: Unassigned

[RFC3973]

DF Election

0-3: Unassigned

[RFC5015]

4-7: Subtype

[RFC5015]

ECMP Redirect

0-7: Unassigned

[RFC6754]

PIM Flooding Mechanism

0-6: Unassigned

[RFC8364]

7: No-Forward

[RFC8364]

13.0-15.14

Unassigned

0-3: Unassigned

15.15

Reserved

0-3: Reserved

RFC 9436

Table 1: Updated PIM Message Types Registry

The unassigned types above, as explained in Section 5, use the extended type notation of
type.subtype. Each extended type only has 4 flag bits available. New extended message types
should be assigned consecutively, starting with 13.0, then 13.1, etc.

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC7761]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

,

,

Fenner, B. Handley, M. Holbrook, H. Kouvelas, I. Parekh, R. Zhang, Z.
,
Zheng "Protocol Independent Multicast - Sparse Mode (PIM-SM): Protocol
Specification (Revised)" STD 83 RFC 7761 DOI 10.17487/RFC7761
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7761>

,
.

,

,

,

, March 2016,

, and

L.

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

.

,

,

,

,

, June

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Venaas & Retana

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9436

PIM Type Extension and Reserved Bits

August 2023

8.2.  Informative References

[RFC3973]

[RFC5015]

[RFC5059]

[RFC6166]

[RFC6754]

[RFC8364]

[RFC8736]

Adams, A. Nicholas, J.
,
,
Mode (PIM-DM): Protocol Specification (Revised)" RFC 3973 DOI 10.17487/
RFC3973

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3973>

W. Siadak "Protocol Independent Multicast - Dense

, January 2005,

, and

,

,

.

,

Handley, M. Kouvelas, I. Speakman, T.
Independent Multicast (BIDIR-PIM)" RFC 5015 DOI 10.17487/RFC5015
2007,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5015>
.

L. Vicisano "Bidirectional Protocol
, October

, and

,

,

,

,

Bhaskar, N. Gall, A. Lingard, J.
Mechanism for Protocol Independent Multicast (PIM)" RFC 5059 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5059

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5059>
.

S. Venaas "Bootstrap Router (BSR)

, January 2008,

, and

,

,

,

Venaas, S. "A Registry for PIM Message Types" RFC 6166 DOI 10.17487/RFC6166
,
,
April 2011,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6166>

,

,

.

,

Cai, Y. Wei, L. Ou, H. Arya, V.
,
Equal-Cost Multipath (ECMP) Redirect" RFC 6754 DOI 10.17487/RFC6754
October 2012,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6754>

S. Jethwani "Protocol Independent Multicast

, and

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

Wijnands, IJ. Venaas, S. Brig, M.
, and
(PFM) and Source Discovery (SD)" RFC 8364 DOI 10.17487/RFC8364
,
2018,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8364>

A. Jonasson "PIM Flooding Mechanism

, March

,

.

,

,

 and

Venaas, S.
Bits" RFC 8736 DOI 10.17487/RFC8736
,
editor.org/info/rfc8736>

A. Retana "PIM Message Type Space Extension and Reserved
,

<https://www.rfc-

, February 2020,

,

.

Authors' Addresses

Stig Venaas
Cisco Systems, Inc.
Tasman Drive
San Jose CA 95134
,
United States of America
Email:

 stig@cisco.com

Alvaro Retana
Futurewei Technologies, Inc.
2330 Central Expressway
Santa Clara CA 95050
,
United States of America
Email:

 alvaro.retana@futurewei.com

Venaas & Retana

Standards Track

Page 7

