Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9790
4928
Standards Track
July 2025
2070-1721

K. Kompella
Juniper Networks

S. Bryant
University of Surrey 5GIC

M. Bocci
Nokia

G. Mirsky, Ed.
Ericsson

L. Andersson
Huawei Technologies

J. Dong
Huawei Technologies

RFC 9790
IANA Registry and Processing Recommendations for
the First Nibble Following a Label Stack

Abstract

This document creates a new IANA registry (called the "Post-Stack First Nibble" registry) for the
first nibble (4-bit field) immediately following an MPLS label stack. Furthermore, this document
presents some requirements for registering new values and making the processing of MPLS
packets easier and more robust.

The relationship between the IANA "Post-Stack First Nibble" registry and the "IP Version
Numbers" registry (RFC 2780) is described in this document.

This document updates RFC 4928 by deprecating the heuristic method for identifying the type of
packet encapsulated in MPLS.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9790
.

Kompella, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9790

First Nibble Following Label Stack

July 2025

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in effect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

1.2.  Definitions

1.3.  Abbreviations

1.4.  Reference Figures

2.  Rationale

2.1.  Why Look at the First Nibble

2.1.1.  ECMP Load Balancing

2.2.  Updates to RFC 4928

2.3.  Why Create a Registry

2.4.  IP Version Numbers Versus Post-Stack First Nibble Values

2.5.  Next Step to More Deterministic Load Balancing in MPLS Networks

3.  IANA Considerations

4.  Security Considerations

5.  References

5.1.  Normative References

5.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

3

4

4

4

5

7

7

7

8

10

10

10

11

12

12

12

13

14

Kompella, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9790

First Nibble Following Label Stack

July 2025

Authors' Addresses

14

1.  Introduction

[RFC8296]

[RFC4385]

 and the like, as well as

, BIER (Bit Index Explicit Replication) headers

An MPLS packet consists of a label stack, an optional Post-Stack Header (PSH), and an optional
embedded packet (in that order). Examples of PSHs include existing headers such as control
words
new types of PSH being discussed by the MPLS Working Group. However, in the data plane,
there are very few clues regarding the PSH and no clue as to the type of embedded packet; this
information is communicated via other means, such as the routing protocols that signal the
labels in the stack. Nonetheless, in order to better handle an MPLS packet in the data plane, it is
common practice for network equipment to "guess" the type of embedded packet. Such
equipment may also need to process the PSH. Both of these require parsing the data after the
label stack. To do this, the "first nibble" (the top four bits of the first octet following the label
stack) is often used. Although some existing network devices may use such a method, it needs to
be stressed that the correct interpretation of the Post-stack First Nibble (PFN) in a PSH can be
made only in the context established through the control or management plane with the Label
Stack Entry (LSE) or group of LSEs in the preceding label stack that characterizes the type of the
PSH. Any attempt to rely on the value in any other context is unreliable. Because the PFN value
should not be used to deduce the type of PSH by itself and the space of PFN values is limited, the
reuse of PFN values is encouraged when possible.

The semantics and usage of the first nibble are not well documented, nor are the assignments of
values. This document serves four purposes:

•

To document the values already in use.

•

To provide a mechanism to document future assignments through the creation of a new
IANA "Post-Stack First Nibble" registry and describe the relationship between it and the
IANA "IP Version Numbers" registry

[RFC2780]

.

•

Provide a method for tracking usage by requiring more detailed documentation.

•

To stress that any MPLS packet not carrying plain IPv4 or IPv6 packets contains a PSH. This
also applies to packets of any new version of IP (see Section 2.4).

Section 2.1.1 of this document includes an analysis of load-balancing techniques; based on this,
Section 2.1.1.1 introduces a requirement that deprecates the use of the heuristic method for
identifying the type of packet encapsulated in MPLS and recommends using a dedicated label
value for load balancing. The intent is for legacy routers to continue operating as they have, with
no new problems introduced as a result of this document. However, new implementations that
follow this document enable more robust network operation.

Furthermore, this document updates
identifying the type of packet encapsulated in MPLS. This document clearly states that the type
of encapsulated packet cannot be determined based on the PFN alone.

 by deprecating the heuristic method for

[RFC4928]

Kompella, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9790

First Nibble Following Label Stack

July 2025

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

1.2.  Definitions

Deprecation:

Regardless of how the deprecation is understood in other IETF documents, the

interpretation in this document is that if a practice has been deprecated, that practice should
not be included in new implementations or deployed in new deployments.

Embedded Packet:

A packet that follows immediately after the MPLS label stack and an

optional PSH. The embedded packet could be an IPv4 or IPv6 packet, an Ethernet packet (for
[RFC4761] [RFC4762]
Virtual Private LAN Service (VPLS)
), or some other
type of Layer 2 frame

[RFC7432]

[RFC4446]

 or EVPN

.

Label Stack:

A label stack is represented as a consecutive sequence of "label stack entries" (four-
octet fields) after the Layer 2 header but before any network layer header. The last label stack
entry of a label stack has its Bottom of Stack bit set.

MPLS Packet:

A packet whose Layer 2 header declares the type to be MPLS. For example, the

Ethertype is 0x8847 or 0x8848 for Ethernet, and the Protocol field is 0x0281 or 0x0283 for PPP.

MPLS Payload:

All data after the label stack and any optional PSHs. It is possible that more

than one type of PSH may be present in a packet, and some PSH specifications might allow
multiple PSHs of the same type. The presence rules for multiple PSHs are a matter for the
documents that define those PSHs, e.g.,

[MNA-PS-HDR]

.

Post-stack First Nibble (PFN):

The most significant four bits of the first octet following the label

stack.

Post-Stack Header (PSH):

A field containing information that may be of interest to the egress

Label Switching Router (LSR) or transit LSRs. Examples include a control word
[RFC8964]

 or an associated channel header

[RFC4385] [RFC5586] [RFC9546]

.

[RFC4385]

1.3.  Abbreviations

BIER:

Bit Index Explicit Replication

FAT:

Flow-Aware Transport

LSE:

Label Stack Entry

LSR:

Label Switching Router

MNA:

MPLS Network Action

Kompella, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9790

First Nibble Following Label Stack

July 2025

PFN:

Post-stack First Nibble

PSH:

Post-Stack Header

PW:

Pseudowire

SPL:

Special-Purpose Label

1.4.  Reference Figures

Figure 1 echoes the format of MPLS packets as defined in
Traffic Class field
Stack flag, and TTL is the Time to Live field.

[RFC5462]

 that replaced the EXP (Experimental Use) field, S is the Bottom of

[RFC3032]

 where TC indicates the

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+\
X |                        Layer 2 Header                         | |
  |                                                               | |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+/
                                            TC   S       TTL
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+\
Y |             Label-1                   | TC  |0|      TTL      | |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |             Label-2                   | TC  |0|      TTL      | |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |               ...                     | TC  |0|      TTL      | |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |             Label-n                   | TC  |1|      TTL      | |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+/

Figure 1: Example of an MPLS Packet with Label Stack

Kompella, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9790

First Nibble Following Label Stack

July 2025

  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+\
A | (PFN) |                   IP header                           | |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                             data                              | |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
                                 ...                                |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                        end of IP packet                       | |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+/

  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+\
B | (PFN) |                 non-IP packet                         | |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                             data                              | |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
                                 ...                                |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                      end of non-IP packet                     | |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+/

  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+\
C | (PFN) |                      PSH                              | |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                              PSH                              | |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
                                 ...                                |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                          end of PSH                           | |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                        embedded packet                        | |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+/

Figure 2: Examples of an MPLS Packet Payload With and Without a Preceding Post‑Stack Header

Figure 1 shows an MPLS packet with a Layer 2 header X and a label stack Y ending with Label-n.
Figure 2 displays three examples of an MPLS payload:

Example A:

The first payload is a bare IP packet, i.e., no PSH. The PFN in this case overlaps with

the IP version number.

Example B:

The next payload is a bare non-IP packet; again, no PSH. The PFN here is the first

nibble of the payload, whatever it happens to be.

Example C:

This example is an MPLS Payload that follows a PSH. Here, the embedded packet

could be IP or non-IP.

Thus, the complete MPLS packet would consist of [X Y A], [X Y B], or [X Y C].

Kompella, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9790

First Nibble Following Label Stack

July 2025

2.  Rationale

2.1.  Why Look at the First Nibble

An MPLS packet can contain one of many types of embedded packets. Three common types are:

1.

An IPv4 packet (whose IP header has version number 4).

2.

An IPv6 packet (whose IP header has version number 6).

3.

A Layer 2 Ethernet frame (i.e., not including the Preamble or the Start frame delimiter),
starting with the destination Media Access Control (MAC) address.

Many other packet types are possible; in principle, any Layer 2 embedded packet is permissible.
Indeed, at some points in time, packets of the Point-to-Point Protocol, Frame Relay, and
Asynchronous Transfer Mode were reasonably common and may become so again.

In addition, there may be a PSH ahead of the embedded packet. The value of PFN is considered
to ensure that the PSH can be correctly parsed.

2.1.1.  ECMP Load Balancing

There are four common ways to load balance an MPLS packet:

1.

Use the top label alone.

2.

Use all of the non-SPLs

[RFC7274]

 in the stack. This is better than using the top label alone.

3.

"Divine" the type of embedded packet and use fields from the guessed header. The
ramifications of using this load-balancing technique are discussed in detail in Section 2.1.1.1.
This way is better than the two ways above.

4.

Use either an Entropy Label
[RFC6391]

 (see Section 2.1.1.1). This is the best way.

[RFC6790]

 or a Flow-Aware Transport (FAT) Pseudowire Label

Load balancing based on just the top label means that all packets with that top label will go the
same way, which is far from ideal. Load balancing based on the entire label stack (not including
SPLs) is better, but it may still be uneven. However, if the embedded packet is an IP packet, then
the combination of (<source IP address>, <dest IP address>, <transport protocol>, <source port>,
and <dest port>) from the IP header of the embedded packet forms an excellent basis for load
balancing. This is what is typically used for load balancing IP packets.

An MPLS packet doesn't, however, carry a payload type identifier. There is a simple (but risky)
heuristic that is commonly used to guess the type of the embedded packet. The first nibble of an
IP header, i.e., the four most significant bits of the first octet, contains the IP version number.
That, in turn, indicates where to find the relevant fields for load balancing. The heuristic goes
roughly as described in Section 2.1.1.1.

Kompella, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9790

First Nibble Following Label Stack

July 2025

2.1.1.1.  Heuristic for ECMP Load Balancing

1.

If the PFN is 0x4 (0100b), treat the payload as an IPv4 packet, and find the relevant fields for
load balancing on that basis.

2.

If the PFN is 0x6 (0110b), treat the payload as an IPv6 packet, and find the relevant fields for
load balancing on that basis.

3.

If the PFN is anything else, the MPLS payload is not an IP packet; fall back to load balancing
using the label stack.

This heuristic has been implemented in many (legacy) routers and performs well in the case of
example A in Figure 2. However, this heuristic can work very badly for the non-IP packet as
shown in example B in Figure 2. For example, if payload B is an Ethernet frame, then the PFN is
the first nibble of the Organizationally Unique Identifier of the destination MAC address, which
can be 0x4 or 0x6. This would lead to the packet being treated as an IPv4 or IPv6 packet such
that data at the offsets of specific relevant fields would be used as input to the load-balancing
heuristic, resulting in unpredictable load balancing. This behavior can happen to other types of
non-IP payloads as well.

, or a BIER header

That, in turn, led to the idea of inserting a PSH (e.g., a pseudowire control word
Deterministic Networking (DetNet) control word
[RFC8300]
forwarding engines from confusing the MPLS payload with an IP packet.
the use of a control word when the embedded packet is an Ethernet frame.
published at the request of the operator community and the IEEE Registration Authority
Committee as a result of operational difficulties with pseudowires that did not contain the
control word.

) where the PFN is not 0x4 or 0x6; this explicitly prevents
 recommends

, a Network Service Header (NSH)

[RFC8469]

[RFC4385]

[RFC8296]

[RFC8964]

[RFC8469]

 was

, a

Where load balancing of MPLS packets is desired, it is
mechanism use the value of a dedicated label, for example, either an Entropy Label
a FAT Pseudowire Label
embedded packet, as discussed above,

. Furthermore, the heuristic of guessing the type of the

 that the load-balancing
[RFC6790]

RECOMMENDED

SHOULD NOT

[RFC6391]

 be used.

 or

 or 0x6

A consequence of the heuristic approach is that while legacy routers may look for a PFN of 0x4
[RFC0791]
purposes, regardless of what future IP version numbers will be. This means that the values 0x4
and 0x6 are used to (sometimes incorrectly) identify IPv4 and IPv6 packets, but no other PFN
values will be used to identify IP packets.

, no legacy router will look for any other PFN for load-balancing

[RFC8200]

This document creates a new registry for all 16 possible values (see Section 3).

2.2.  Updates to RFC 4928

The text in RFC 4928
updated by this document, and the heuristic for snooping this nibble has been deprecated.
Section 3 of [RFC4928]

 concerning the first nibble after the MPLS label stack has been

 is updated as follows:

[RFC4928]

OLD TEXT:

Kompella, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9790

First Nibble Following Label Stack

July 2025

REQUIRED

, however, that applications depend upon in-order packet delivery

It is
restrict the first nibble values to 0x0 and 0x1. This will ensure that their traffic flows
will not be affected if some future routing equipment does similar snooping on some
future version(s) of IP.

NEW TEXT:

Network equipment
Nibble) value that is neither 0x4 nor 0x6 in all cases where the MPLS payload is neither
an IPv6 nor an IPv4 packet.

 use a PSH (Post-Stack Header) with a PFN (Post-stack First

MUST

The following requirement (discussed is Section 2.1.1.1) replaces paragraph 4 in
[RFC4928]

 as follows:

Section 3 of

OLD TEXT:

This behavior implies that if in the future an IP version is defined with a version
number of 0x0 or 0x1, then equipment complying with this BCP would be unable to
look past one or more MPLS headers, and loadsplit traffic from a single LSP across
multiple paths based on a hash of specific fields in the IPv0 or IPv1 headers. That is, IP
traffic employing these version numbers would be safe from disturbances caused by
inappropriate loadsplitting, but would also not be able to get the performance benefits.

NEW TEXT:

The practice of deducing the payload type based on the PFN value is deprecated to
avoid inaccurate load balancing. This
MUST NOT
deployments. This also means that concerns about load balancing for future IP versions
with a version number of 0x0 or 0x1 are no longer relevant.

 be part of new implementations or

Furthermore, the following text is appended to

Section 1.1 of [RFC4928]
:

NEW TEXT:

PSH:

Post-Stack Header

PFN:

Post-stack First Nibble

Kompella, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9790

First Nibble Following Label Stack

July 2025

2.3.  Why Create a Registry

The framework for MPLS Network Actions (MNAs) is described in
enhancement to the MPLS architecture. The use of Post-Stack Data (PSD) to encode the MNA
indicators and ancillary data (described in
which could conflict with other uses of that nibble. This issue is described in
[RFC9789]
depending on whether the PSH is a pseudowire control word or a DetNet control word;
disambiguation requires the context of the service label.

 and is further illustrated by the PFN value of 0x0, which has two different formats

Section 3.6 of [RFC9789]

Section 3.6.1 of

[RFC9789]

 and is an

) might place data in the PFN,

With a registry, PSHs become easier to identify and parse. In addition, they do not need a means
outside the data plane to interpret them correctly, and their semantics and usage are
documented and referenced in the registry.

2.4.  IP Version Numbers Versus Post-Stack First Nibble Values

The use of the PFN stemmed from the desire to heuristically identify IP packets for load-
balancing purposes. It was then discovered that non-IP packets, misidentified as IP when the
heuristic failed, were being badly load balanced, leading to the scenario described in
This situation may confuse some as to the relationship between the "Post-Stack First Nibble"
registry and the "IP Version Numbers" registry. These registries are quite different:

[RFC4928]
.

1.

The explicit purpose of the "IP Version Numbers" registry is to track IP version numbers in
an IP header.

2.

The purpose of the "Post-Stack First Nibble" registry is to track PSH types.

The only intersection points between the two registries are the values 0x4 and 0x6 (for
backward compatibility).

2.5.  Next Step to More Deterministic Load Balancing in MPLS Networks

Network evolution is impossible to control, but it develops over a period of time determined by
various factors.

This document discourages further proliferation of the implementations that could lead to
undesired effects on data flows. In doing so, it limits the scope of future protocol developments
and thus helps to ensure that future network evolution will be smoother.

 suggests the use of a PSH solely for the purpose of avoiding IP ECMP

Section 2 of [RFC4385]
treatment of non-IP payloads encapsulated in MPLS. Obsoleting this use of a PSH would assist
with the progress toward a simpler, more coherent system of MPLS data encapsulation. (Other
uses of a PSH may still be valid.) However, before that can be done, it is important to collect
sufficient evidence that there are no marketed or deployed implementations using the heuristic
practice to load balance MPLS data flows.

Kompella, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9790

First Nibble Following Label Stack

July 2025

Therefore, the next steps toward more deterministic load balancing in MPLS networks are to
gradually deprecate non-PSH MPLS encapsulations of non-IP data, to cease using heuristic load
balancing, and to survey the available and deployed implementations to determine when
obsoletion may be achieved.

3.  IANA Considerations

Per this document, IANA has created a registry group called "Post-Stack First Nibble" that
consists of a single registry called the "Post-Stack First Nibble" registry. The initial contents of the
registry are shown in Table 1. The assignment policy is Standards Action
important to note that the same PFN value can be used in more than one protocol. The correct
interpretation of the PFN in a PSH can be made only in the context of the LSE or group of LSEs in
the preceding label stack that characterizes the type of the PSH and, consequently, the PFN.

[RFC8126]

. It is

Protocol

Value

Description

DetNet

NSH

PW

DetNet

MPLS

PW

NSH

BIER

0x0

0x0

0x0

0x1

0x1

0x1

0x2

0x3

0x4

0x5

0x6

Reference

[RFC8964]

DetNet Control Word

NSH Base Header, payload

[RFC8300]

PW Control Word

[RFC4385]

DetNet Associated Channel

[RFC9546]

MPLS Generic Associated Channel

[RFC5586]

PW Associated Channel

[RFC4385]

NSH Base Header, OAM

[RFC8300]

Unassigned

Reserved

BIER Header

Reserved

RFC 9790

[RFC8296]

RFC 9790

0x7 - 0xF

Unassigned

Table 1: Post-Stack First Nibble Registry

Kompella, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9790

First Nibble Following Label Stack

July 2025

4.  Security Considerations

This document creates a new IANA registry for PFNs and specifies changes to the treatment of
packets in the data plane based on the first nibble of data beyond the MPLS label stack. One
intent of this is to reduce or eliminate errors in determining whether or not a packet being
transported by MPLS is IP. While such errors have primarily caused unbalanced, and thus
inefficient, multipathing, they have the potential to cause more severe security problems.

For general security considerations involving the MPLS label stack, see

[RFC3032]
.

5.  References

5.1.  Normative References

[RFC0791]

[RFC2119]

[RFC2780]

[RFC3032]

[RFC4385]

[RFC4928]

[RFC5462]

[RFC6391]

,

Postel, J. "Internet Protocol" STD 5 RFC 791 DOI 10.17487/RFC0791
1981,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc791>

.

,

,

, September

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

 and

V. Paxson "IANA Allocation Guidelines For Values In the
Bradner, S.
Internet Protocol and Related Headers" BCP 37 RFC 2780 DOI 10.17487/
RFC2780

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2780>

, March 2000,

,

,

,

,

.

,

Rosen, E. Tappan, D. Fedorkow, G. Rekhter, Y. Farinacci, D. Li, T.
"MPLS Label Stack Encoding" RFC 3032 DOI 10.17487/RFC3032
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3032>

.

,

,

,

,

,

, and

A. Conta
, January 2001,

,

,

D. McPherson "Pseudowire Emulation
Bryant, S. Swallow, G. Martini, L.
Edge-to-Edge (PWE3) Control Word for Use over an MPLS PSN" RFC 4385 DOI
10.17487/RFC4385
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4385>

, February 2006,

, and

,

,

,

,

L. Andersson "Avoiding Equal Cost Multipath
Swallow, G. Bryant, S.
,
Treatment in MPLS Networks" BCP 128 RFC 4928 DOI 10.17487/RFC4928
,
2007,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4928>

, and

,

,

,

.

, June

 and

Andersson, L.
Entry: "EXP" Field Renamed to "Traffic Class" Field" RFC 5462 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5462

R. Asati "Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) Label Stack

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5462>

, February 2009,

,

,

.

,

,

,

Bryant, S., Ed. Filsfils, C. Drafz, U. Kompella, V. Regan, J.
S. Amante "Flow-
Aware Transport of Pseudowires over an MPLS Packet Switched Network" RFC
6391 DOI 10.17487/RFC6391
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
,
rfc6391>

, November 2011,

, and

,

,

,

,

.

Kompella, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9790

First Nibble Following Label Stack

July 2025

[RFC6790]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8200]

[RFC8296]

[RFC8469]

[RFC8964]

[RFC9789]

,

Kompella, K. Drake, J. Amante, S. Henderickx, W.
Entropy Labels in MPLS Forwarding" RFC 6790 DOI 10.17487/RFC6790
November 2012,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6790>

, and

L. Yong "The Use of

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Deering, S.
86 RFC 8200 DOI 10.17487/RFC8200
rfc8200>

 and
,

,

.

R. Hinden "Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6) Specification" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, July 2017,

,

,

,

,

Wijnands, IJ., Ed. Rosen, E., Ed. Dolganow, A. Tantsura, J. Aldrin, S.
Meilik "Encapsulation for Bit Index Explicit Replication (BIER) in MPLS and
Non-MPLS Networks" RFC 8296 DOI 10.17487/RFC8296
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8296>

, January 2018,

, and

I.

,

,

,

,

.

<https://

Bryant, S. Malis, A.
,
Control Word" RFC 8469 DOI 10.17487/RFC8469
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8469>

I. Bagdonas "Recommendation to Use the Ethernet
,

, November 2018,

<https://

, and

,

,

.

,

Varga, B., Ed. Farkas, J. Berger, L. Malis, A. Bryant, S.
"Deterministic Networking (DetNet) Data Plane: MPLS" RFC 8964 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8964

J. Korhonen
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8964>
.

, January 2021,

, and
,

,

,

,

,

Andersson, L. Bryant, S. Bocci, M.
Framework" RFC 9789 DOI 10.17487/RFC9789
,
editor.org/info/rfc9789>
.

, and

,
,

,

T. Li "MPLS Network Actions (MNAs)

,

, July 2025,

<https://www.rfc-

5.2.  Informative References

[MNA-PS-HDR]

[RFC4446]

[RFC4761]

[RFC4762]

,

J. Dong "Post-Stack
Rajamanickam, J., Ed. Gandhi, R., Ed. Zigler, R. Li, T.
,
MPLS Network Action (MNA) Solution" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-
,
,
ietf-mpls-mna-ps-hdr-01
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/
, 30 May 2025,
draft-ietf-mpls-mna-ps-hdr-01>
.

, and

,

,

,

Martini, L. "IANA Allocations for Pseudowire Edge to Edge Emulation (PWE3)"
BCP 116 RFC 4446 DOI 10.17487/RFC4446
editor.org/info/rfc4446>

<https://www.rfc-

, April 2006,

,

,

.

,

 and

Kompella, K., Ed.
,
BGP for Auto-Discovery and Signaling" RFC 4761 DOI 10.17487/RFC4761
January 2007,

Y. Rekhter, Ed. "Virtual Private LAN Service (VPLS) Using
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4761>

.

,

,

 and

Lasserre, M., Ed.
,
Label Distribution Protocol (LDP) Signaling" RFC 4762 DOI 10.17487/RFC4762
January 2007,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4762>

V. Kompella, Ed. "Virtual Private LAN Service (VPLS) Using

.

,

,

Kompella, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9790

First Nibble Following Label Stack

July 2025

[RFC5586]

[RFC7274]

[RFC7432]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8300]

[RFC9546]

,

Bocci, M., Ed. Vigoureux, M., Ed.
Channel" RFC 5586 DOI 10.17487/RFC5586
editor.org/info/rfc5586>

, and

.

,

,

S. Bryant, Ed. "MPLS Generic Associated

,

, June 2009,

<https://www.rfc-

Kompella, K. Andersson, L.
,
A. Farrel "Allocating and Retiring Special-
, and
Purpose MPLS Labels" RFC 7274 DOI 10.17487/RFC7274
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7274>
.

, June 2014,

<https://

,

,

,

Sajassi, A., Ed. Aggarwal, R. Bitar, N. Isaac, A. Uttaro, J. Drake, J.
Henderickx "BGP MPLS-Based Ethernet VPN" RFC 7432 DOI 10.17487/RFC7432
February 2015,

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7432>
.

, and

,
,

W.

,

,

,

,

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

, June

Quinn, P., Ed. Elzur, U., Ed.
,
(NSH)" RFC 8300 DOI 10.17487/RFC8300
editor.org/info/rfc8300>

, and

,

,

.

,
, January 2018,

C. Pignataro, Ed. "Network Service Header

<https://www.rfc-

, and

B. Varga "Operations, Administration, and

Mirsky, G. Chen, M.
,
Maintenance (OAM) for Deterministic Networking (DetNet) with the MPLS Data
Plane" RFC 9546 DOI 10.17487/RFC9546
editor.org/info/rfc9546>

<https://www.rfc-

, February 2024,

,

,

,

.

Acknowledgements

The authors express their appreciation and gratitude to
insightful questions, and helpful comments. Also, the authors are grateful to
helping organize the IANA registry in a clear and concise manner.

Donald E. Eastlake 3rd

 for the review,

Amanda Baber

 for

Éric Vyncke John Scudder Warren Kumari Murray Kucherawy
provided helpful comments during IESG review.

,

,

,

, and

Gunter Van de Velde

The authors would also like to thank
for helping to finalize the text.

Adrian Farrel

 for his patient and careful shepherding and

Authors' Addresses

Kireeti Kompella
Juniper Networks
1133 Innovation Way
Sunnyvale CA 94089
,
United States of America
Email:

kireeti.ietf@gmail.com

Kompella, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9790

First Nibble Following Label Stack

July 2025

Stewart Bryant
University of Surrey 5GIC
Email:

sb@stewartbryant.com

Matthew Bocci
Nokia
Email:

matthew.bocci@nokia.com

editor
)

Greg Mirsky (
Ericsson
Email:

gregimirsky@gmail.com

Loa Andersson
Huawei Technologies
Email:

loa@pi.nu

Jie Dong
Huawei Technologies
Huawei Campus, No. 156 Beiqing Rd.
Beijing
100095
China
Email:

jie.dong@huawei.com

Kompella, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

