Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9355
2328
Standards Track
February 2023
2070-1721
K. Talaulikar,
 Ed.
Cisco Systems, Inc.

P. Psenak
Cisco Systems, Inc.

A. Fu
Bloomberg

M. Rajesh
Juniper Networks

RFC 9355
OSPF Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD)
Strict-Mode

Abstract

This document specifies the extensions to OSPF that enable an OSPF router to signal the
requirement for a Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD) session prior to adjacency
formation. Link-Local Signaling (LLS) is used to advertise the requirement for strict-mode BFD
session establishment for an OSPF adjacency. If both OSPF neighbors advertise BFD strict-mode,
adjacency formation will be blocked until a BFD session has been successfully established.

This document updates RFC 2328 by augmenting the OSPF neighbor state machine with a check
for BFD session up before progression from Init to 2-Way state when operating in OSPF BFD
strict-mode.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9355
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Talaulikar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9355

OSPF BFD Strict-Mode

February 2023

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

2.  LLS B-Bit Flag

3.  Local Interface IPv4 Address TLV

4.  Procedures

4.1.  OSPFv3 IPv4 AF Specifics

4.2.  Graceful Restart Considerations

5.  Operations and Management Considerations

6.  Backward Compatibility

7.  IANA Considerations

8.  Security Considerations

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

[RFC5880]
Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD)
connectivity and to detect faults in the bidirectional path between them. BFD is leveraged by
 and OSPFv3
routing protocols like OSPFv2
established adjacencies faster than the OSPF Hello dead timer detection and to trigger rerouting
of traffic around the failure. The use of BFD for monitoring routing protocol adjacencies is
described in

 enables routers to monitor data plane

 to detect connectivity failures for

[RFC5882]
.

[RFC5340]

[RFC2328]

Talaulikar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9355

OSPF BFD Strict-Mode

February 2023

When BFD monitoring is enabled for OSPF adjacencies by the network operator, the BFD session
is bootstrapped based on the neighbor address information discovered by the exchange of OSPF
Hello packets. Faults in the bidirectional forwarding detected via BFD then result in the OSPF
adjacency being brought down. A degraded or poor-quality link may result in intermittent packet
drops. In such scenarios, implementations prior to the extensions specified in this document may
still get an OSPF adjacency established over such a link; however, given the more aggressive
monitoring intervals supported by BFD, a BFD session may not get established and/or may flap.
The traffic forwarded over such a link would experience packet drops, and the failure of the BFD
session establishment will not enable fast routing convergence. OSPF adjacency flaps may occur
over such links when OSPF brings up the adjacency only for it to be brought down again by BFD.

To avoid the routing churn associated with these scenarios, it would be beneficial not to allow
OSPF to establish an adjacency until a BFD session is successfully established and has stabilized.
However, this would preclude the OSPF operation in an environment where not all OSPF routers
support BFD and have it enabled on the link. A solution is to block OSPF adjacency establishment
until a BFD session is established as long as both neighbors advertise such a requirement. Such a
mode of OSPF BFD usage is referred to as "strict-mode". Strict-mode introduces signaling support
in OSPF to achieve the blocking of adjacency formation until BFD session establishment occurs,
as described in

Section 4.1 of [RFC5882]
.

This document specifies the OSPF protocol extensions using Link-Local Signaling (LLS)
for a router to indicate to its neighbor the willingness to require BFD strict-mode for OSPF
adjacency establishment (refer to Section 2). It also introduces an extension to OSPFv3 LLS of the
interface IPv4 address (refer to Section 3) to be used for the BFD session setup when OSPFv3 is
used for an IPv4 Address Family (AF) instance.

[RFC5613]

This document updates
for BFD session up before progression from Init to 2-Way state when operating in OSPF BFD
strict-mode.

 by augmenting the OSPF neighbor state machine with a check

[RFC2328]

The extensions and procedures for OSPF BFD strict-mode also apply for adjacency over virtual
links using BFD multi-hop

 procedures.

[RFC5883]

A similar functionality for IS-IS is specified in

[RFC6213]
.

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

Talaulikar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9355

OSPF BFD Strict-Mode

February 2023

2.  LLS B-Bit Flag

This document defines the B-bit in the LLS Type 1 Extended Options and Flags. This bit is defined
for the LLS block that is included in Hello and Database Description (DD) packets. The B-bit
indicates that BFD is enabled on the link and that the router requests OSPF BFD strict-mode.
Section 7 describes the position of the B-bit.

A router
Flags in its Hello and DD packets when OSPF BFD strict-mode is enabled on the link.

 include the LLS block with the B-bit set in the LLS Type 1 Extended Options and

MUST

3.  Local Interface IPv4 Address TLV

The Local Interface IPv4 Address TLV is an LLS TLV defined for OSPFv3 IPv4 AF instance
[RFC5838]

 protocol operation as described in Section 4.1.

It has the following format:

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|              Type             |             Length            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                 Local Interface IPv4 Address                  |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

where:

Type:

21

Length:

4 octets

Local Interface IPv4 Address:

The primary IPv4 address of the local interface.

4.  Procedures

A router supporting OSPF BFD strict-mode advertises this capability through its Hello packets as
described in Section 2. When a router supporting OSPF BFD strict-mode discovers a new
neighbor router that also supports OSPF BFD strict-mode, it will establish a BFD session with that
neighbor first before bringing up the OSPF adjacency as described further in this section.

This document updates the OSPF neighbor state machine as described in
the operations related to the Init state are modified as described below when OSPF BFD strict-
mode is used:

[RFC2328]

. Specifically,

Talaulikar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9355

OSPF BFD Strict-Mode

February 2023

Init (without OSPF BFD strict-mode):

In this state, a Hello packet has recently been received from the neighbor. However,
bidirectional communication has not yet been established with the neighbor (i.e., the router
itself did not appear in the neighbor's Hello packet). All neighbors in this state (or higher) are
listed in the Hello packets sent from the associated interface.

Init (with OSPF BFD strict-mode):

In this state, a Hello packet has recently been received from the neighbor. However,
bidirectional communication has not yet been established with the neighbor (i.e., the router
itself did not appear in the neighbor's Hello packet). BFD session establishment with the
neighbor is requested if it's not already completed (e.g., in the event of transition from 2-Way
state). Neighbors in Init state or higher will be listed in Hello packets associated with the
interface if they either have a corresponding BFD session established or have not advertised
OSPF BFD strict-mode in the LLS Type 1 Extended Options and Flags advertised in the Hello
packet.

When the neighbor state transitions to Down state, the removal of the BFD session associated
with that neighbor is requested by OSPF; subsequent BFD session establishment is similarly
requested by OSPF upon transitioning into Init state. This may result in BFD session deletion and
creation, respectively, when OSPF is the only client interested in the BFD session with the
neighbor address.

MUST NOT

An implementation
 wait for BFD session establishment in Init state unless OSPF BFD
strict-mode is enabled by the operator on the interface and the specific neighbor indicates OSPF
BFD strict-mode capability via the LLS Type 1 Extended Options and Flags advertised in the Hello
packet. When BFD is enabled, but OSPF BFD strict-mode has not been signaled by both neighbors,
an implementation
makes it possible for an OSPF router to support BFD operation in both strict-mode and normal
mode across different interfaces or even across different neighbors on the same multi-access
interface.

 start BFD session establishment only in 2-Way or greater state. This

SHOULD

MUST NOT

Once the OSPF state machine has moved beyond the Init state, any change in the B-bit advertised
in subsequent Hello packets
 result in any trigger in either the OSPF adjacency or the
BFD session management (i.e., the B-bit is considered only when in Init state). Disabling BFD (or
OSPF BFD strict-mode) on an OSPF interface would result in it not setting the B-bit in the LLS
Type 1 Extended Options and Flags advertised in subsequent Hello packets. Disabling OSPF BFD
strict-mode has no effect on BFD operations and would not result in the bringing down of any
established BFD sessions. Disabling BFD would result in the BFD session being brought down due
to AdminDown State (described in
OSPF adjacency.

); hence, it would not bring down the

Section 3.2 of [RFC5882]

When BFD is enabled on an interface over which we already have an existing OSPF adjacency, it
would result in the router setting the B-bit in its subsequent Hello packets and the initiation of
BFD session establishment to the neighbor. If the adjacency is already up (i.e., in its terminal
state of Full or 2-Way with routers that are not designated routers on a multi-access interface)
with a neighbor that also supports OSPF BFD strict-mode, then an implementation
bring this adjacency down into the Init state to avoid disruption to routing operations and

SHOULD NOT

Talaulikar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9355

OSPF BFD Strict-Mode

February 2023

instead use the OSPF BFD strict-mode wait only after a transition to Init state. However, if the
adjacency is not up, then an implementation
MAY
OSPF BFD strict-mode for its adjacency establishment.

 bring such an adjacency down so it can use the

4.1.  OSPFv3 IPv4 AF Specifics

[RFC5838]

Support for multiple AFs in OSPFv3
 requires the use of an IPv6 link-local address as
the source address for Hello packets, even when forming adjacencies for IPv4 AF instances. In
most deployments of OSPFv3 IPv4 AFs, it is required that BFD is used to monitor and verify IPv4
data plane connectivity between the routers on the link; hence, the BFD session is set up using
IPv4 neighbor addresses. The IPv4 neighbor address on the interface is learned only later in the
adjacency formation process when the neighbor's Link-LSA (Link State Advertisement) is
received. This results in the setup of the BFD IPv4 session either after the adjacency is established
or later in the adjacency formation sequence.

To operate in OSPF BFD strict-mode, it is necessary for an OSPF router to learn its neighbor's IPv4
link address during the Init state of adjacency formation (ideally, when it receives the first Hello).
The use of the Local Interface IPv4 Address TLV (as defined in Section 3) in the LLS block
advertised in OSPFv3 Hello packets for IPv4 AF instances makes this possible. Implementations
that support OSPF BFD strict-mode for OSPFv3 IPv4 AF instances
Interface IPv4 Address TLV in the LLS block advertised in their Hello packets whenever the B-bit
is also set in the LLS Type 1 Extended Options and Flags. A receiver
not operate in strict-mode for BFD) when the Local Interface IPv4 Address TLV is not present in
OSPFv3 Hello messages for OSPFv3 IPv4 AF instances.

 ignore the B-bit (i.e.,

 include the Local

MUST

MUST

4.2.  Graceful Restart Considerations

An implementation needs to handle scenarios where both graceful restart (GR) and the OSPF BFD
strict-mode are deployed together. The graceful restart aspects related to process restart
scenarios discussed in
Additionally, since the OSPF adjacency formation is delayed until the BFD session establishment
in OSPF BFD strict-mode, the resultant delay in adjacency formation may affect or break the GR-
based recovery. In such cases, it is
provide sufficient time to allow for normal BFD session establishment delays.

 that the GR timers are set such that they

 also apply with OSPF BFD strict-mode.

Section 3.3 of [RFC5882]

RECOMMENDED

5.  Operations and Management Considerations

SHOULD

An implementation
 report the BFD session status along with the OSPF Init adjacency
state when OSPF BFD strict-mode is enabled and support logging operations on neighbor state
transitions that include the BFD events. This allows an operator to detect scenarios where an
OSPF adjacency may be stuck waiting for BFD session establishment.

In network deployments with noisy or degraded links with intermittent packet loss, BFD sessions
may flap, resulting in OSPF adjacency flaps. In turn, this may cause routing churn. The use of
OSPF BFD strict-mode along with mechanisms such as hold-down (a delay in bringing up the
initial OSPF adjacency following BFD session establishment) and/or dampening (a delay in

Talaulikar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9355

OSPF BFD Strict-Mode

February 2023

bringing up the OSPF adjacency following failure detected by BFD) may help reduce the
frequency of adjacency flaps and therefore reduce the associated routing churn. The details of
these mechanisms are outside the scope of this document.

 specifies the base OSPF YANG module. The required configuration and operational

[RFC9129]
elements for this feature are expected to be introduced as augmentation to this base OSPF YANG
module.

6.  Backward Compatibility

MUST

An implementation
 support OSPF adjacency formation and operations with a neighbor
router that does not advertise the OSPF BFD strict-mode capability: both when that neighbor
router does not support BFD and when it does support BFD but does not signal the OSPF BFD
strict-mode as described in this document. Implementations
option to force BFD operation only in OSPF BFD strict-mode (i.e, adjacency will not come up
unless BFD session is established). In this case, an OSPF adjacency with a neighbor that does not
support OSPF BFD strict-mode would not be established successfully. Implementations
MAY
provide a local configuration option to enable BFD without the OSPF BFD strict-mode, which
results in the router not advertising the B-bit and BFD operation being performed in the same
way as prior to this specification.

 provide a local configuration

MAY

The signaling specified in this document happens at a link-local level between routers on that
link. A router that does not support this specification would ignore the B-bit in the LLS block
advertised in Hello packets from its neighbors and continue to establish BFD sessions (if enabled)
without delaying the OSPF adjacency formation. Since a router that does not support this
specification would not have set the B-bit in the LLS block advertised in its own Hello packets, its
neighbor routers supporting this specification would not use OSPF BFD strict-mode with such
OSPF routers. As a result, the behavior would be the same as without this specification.
Therefore, there are no backward compatibility issues or implementation considerations beyond
what is specified herein.

7.  IANA Considerations

This specification makes the following updates under the "Open Shortest Path First (OSPF) Link
Local Signaling (LLS) - Type/Length/Value Identifiers (TLV)" parameters.

•

In the "LLS Type 1 Extended Options and Flags" registry, the B-bit has been assigned the bit
position 0x00000010.

•

In the "Link Local Signaling TLV Identifiers (LLS Types)" registry, the Type 21 has been
assigned to the Local Interface IPv4 Address TLV.

Talaulikar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9355

OSPF BFD Strict-Mode

February 2023

8.  Security Considerations

The security considerations for "OSPF Link-Local Signaling"
extension described in this document. Inappropriate use of the B-bit in the LLS block of an OSPF
Hello message could prevent an OSPF adjacency from forming or lead to the failure of detecting
bidirectional forwarding failures. If authentication is being used in the OSPF routing domain
[RFC5709] [RFC7474]
protect the contents of the LLS block.

, then the Cryptographic Authentication TLV

 also apply to the

[RFC5613] MUST

[RFC5613]

 also be used to

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC2328]

[RFC5340]

[RFC5613]

[RFC5838]

[RFC5882]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Moy, J. "OSPF Version 2" STD 54 RFC 2328 DOI 10.17487/RFC2328
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2328>

,

,

.

, April 1998,

Coltun, R. Ferguson, D. Moy, J.
10.17487/RFC5340

,
, July 2008,

,

, and

A. Lindem "OSPF for IPv6" RFC 5340 DOI

,

,

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5340>

.

,

,

Zinin, A. Roy, A. Nguyen, L. Friedman, B.
Signaling" RFC 5613 DOI 10.17487/RFC5613
,
editor.org/info/rfc5613>

.

,

,

, and

D. Yeung "OSPF Link-Local

,

, August 2009,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Lindem, A., Ed. Mirtorabi, S. Roy, A. Barnes, M.
Address Families in OSPFv3" RFC 5838 DOI 10.17487/RFC5838
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5838>

, and

,
,

,

,

.

R. Aggarwal "Support of
,

, April 2010,

D. Ward "Generic Application of Bidirectional Forwarding

 and

Katz, D.
Detection (BFD)" RFC 5882 DOI 10.17487/RFC5882
editor.org/info/rfc5882>
.

,

,

,

, June 2010,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

9.2.  Informative References

[RFC5709]

,

R. Atkinson
Bhatia, M. Manral, V. Fanto, M. White, R. Barnes, M. Li, T.
,
"OSPFv2 HMAC-SHA Cryptographic Authentication" RFC 5709 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5709

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5709>

, October 2009,

, and
,

,

,

,

,

,

.

Talaulikar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9355

OSPF BFD Strict-Mode

February 2023

[RFC5880]

[RFC5883]

[RFC6213]

[RFC7474]

[RFC9129]

Katz, D.
 and
10.17487/RFC5880

D. Ward "Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD)" RFC 5880 DOI

,

,

,

, June 2010,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5880>

.

 and

Katz, D.
Paths" RFC 5883 DOI 10.17487/RFC5883
,
info/rfc5883>

,

.

D. Ward "Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD) for Multihop

,

, June 2010,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

Hopps, C.
RFC6213

 and
, April 2011,

L. Ginsberg "IS-IS BFD-Enabled TLV" RFC 6213 DOI 10.17487/

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6213>

,

,

.

,

Bhatia, M. Hartman, S. Zhang, D.
, and
OSPFv2 When Using Manual Key Management" RFC 7474 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7474

A. Lindem, Ed. "Security Extension for
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7474>

, April 2015,

,

,

,

.

,

Yeung, D. Qu, Y. Zhang, Z. Chen, I.
,
OSPF Protocol" RFC 9129 DOI 10.17487/RFC9129
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9129>

, and

,
,

.

A. Lindem "YANG Data Model for the

,

, October 2022,

<https://

Acknowledgements

The authors would like to acknowledge the review and inputs from
Balaji Ganesh Les Ginsberg Robert Raszuk Gyan Mishra Muthu Arul Mozhi Perumal Russ
Housley

,
,
Wes Hardaker
.

Acee Lindem Manish Gupta
,

, and

,

,

,

,

The authors would like to acknowledge
using OSPF BFD strict-mode for BFD sessions for OSPFv3 IPv4 AF instances and
suggestions on the approach to address it.

Dylan van Oudheusden

 for highlighting the problems in
 for his

Baalajee S

The authors would like to thank
document.

John Scudder

 for his AD review and suggestions to improve the

Authors' Addresses

editor
)

Ketan Talaulikar (
Cisco Systems, Inc.
India
Email:

 ketant.ietf@gmail.com

Peter Psenak
Cisco Systems, Inc.
Apollo Business Center
Mlynske nivy 43
821 09 Bratislava
Slovakia
Email:

 ppsenak@cisco.com

Talaulikar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9355

OSPF BFD Strict-Mode

February 2023

Albert Fu
Bloomberg
United States of America
Email:

 afu14@bloomberg.net

Rajesh M
Juniper Networks
India
Email:

 mrajesh@juniper.net

Talaulikar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

