Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9653
Standards Track
September 2024
2070-1721
M. Tüxen
Münster Univ. of Appl. Sciences

V. Boivie
Google

F. Castelli
Google

R. Jesup
Mozilla

RFC 9653
Zero Checksum for the Stream Control Transmission
Protocol

Abstract

The Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP) uses a 32-bit checksum in the common header
of each packet to provide some level of data integrity. If another method used by SCTP already
provides the same or a higher level of data integrity, computing this checksum does not provide
any additional protection but does consume computing resources.

This document provides a simple extension allowing SCTP to save these computing resources by
using zero as the checksum in a backwards-compatible way. It also defines how this feature can
be used when SCTP packets are encapsulated in Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)
packets.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9653
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Tüxen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9653

Zero Checksum for SCTP

September 2024

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Conventions

3.  Alternate Error Detection Methods

4.  A New Chunk Parameter

5.  Procedures

5.1.  Declaration of Feature Support

5.2.  Sender-Side Considerations

5.3.  Receiver-Side Considerations

6.  Error Detection via SCTP over DTLS

7.  Socket API Considerations

7.1.  Set Accepting a Zero Checksum (SCTP_ACCEPT_ZERO_CHECKSUM)

8.  IANA Considerations

9.  Security Considerations

10. References

10.1.  Normative References

10.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

2

3

3

5

6

6

6

7

7

7

7

8

9

9

9

10

10

10

SCTP as specified in
When using, for example, Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS) as the lower layer for SCTP
, using the CRC32c checksum does not provide any additional protection
as specified in

 uses a CRC32c checksum to provide some level of data integrity.

[RFC8261]

[RFC9260]

Tüxen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9653

Zero Checksum for SCTP

September 2024

over that already provided by DTLS. However, computing the CRC32c checksum at the sender
and receiver sides does consume computational resources for no benefit. This is particularly
important for endpoints that are computationally limited and use SCTP over DTLS.

The extension described in this document allows an SCTP endpoint to declare that it accepts SCTP
packets with a checksum of zero when using a specific alternate error detection method. This
declaration happens during the setup of the SCTP association and allows endpoints that support
this extension to be interoperable with endpoints that don't. To provide this backwards
compatibility, endpoints using this extension still need to implement the CRC32c checksum
algorithm.

2.  Conventions

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Alternate Error Detection Methods

SCTP uses a CRC32c checksum to provide some level of data integrity. The CRC32c checksum is
computed based on the SCTP common header and the chunks contained in the packet. In
particular, the computation of the CRC32c checksum does not involve a pseudo header for IPv4
or IPv6 like the computation of the TCP checksum, as specified in
checksum, as specified in

, or the UDP

[RFC0768]
.

[RFC9293]

Zero is a valid result of the CRC32c checksum algorithm. For example, the following figure
depicts an SCTP packet containing a minimal INIT chunk with a correct CRC32c checksum of
zero.

Tüxen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9653

Zero Checksum for SCTP

September 2024

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   Source Port Number = 5001   |Destination Port Number = 5001 |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                     Verification Tag = 0                      |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                         Checksum = 0                          |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   Type = 1    |Chunk Flags = 0|       Chunk Length = 20       |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                   Initiate Tag = 0xFCB75CCA                   |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|       Advertised Receiver Window Credit (a_rwnd) = 1500       |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|Number of Outbound Streams = 1 | Number of Inbound Streams = 1 |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                        Initial TSN = 0                        |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 1: SCTP Packet with a Correct CRC32c Checksum of Zero

Using SCTP in combination with other mechanisms or protocol extensions might provide data
integrity protection with an equal or lower probability of false negatives than the one provided
by using the CRC32c checksum algorithm. When using such alternate error detection methods,
the SCTP common header containing the 32-bit checksum field might or might not be visible to
middleboxes on the paths between the two endpoints.

Alternate error detection methods have two requirements:

1.

An alternate error detection method
MUST
negatives than the one provided by using the CRC32c checksum algorithm. This
apply to packets satisfying some method-specific constraints.

 provide an equal or lower probability of false
 only

MAY

2.

Using an alternate error detection method
two retransmission timeouts (RTOs) due to middleboxes on the path expecting correct
CRC32c checksums.

 result in a path failure for more than

MUST NOT

To fulfill the second requirement, alternate error detection methods could use a heuristic to
detect the existence of such middleboxes and use correct CRC32c checksums on these affected
paths.

Using DTLS as the lower layer of SCTP as specified in
first requirement. Another example is using SCTP Authentication as specified in
course, this only applies to each SCTP packet having an AUTH chunk as its first chunk. However,
using SCTP Authentication without any heuristic does not fulfill the second requirement. Since
using DTLS as the lower layer of SCTP as specified in
requirement, it can be used as an alternate error detection method (see Section 6).

 is one example that fulfills the
. Of

 also fulfills the second

[RFC4895]

[RFC8261]

[RFC8261]

Tüxen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9653

Zero Checksum for SCTP

September 2024

If an alternate error detection method is used, the computation of the CRC32c checksum
consumes computational resources without providing any benefit. To avoid this, an SCTP
endpoint could be willing to accept SCTP packets with an incorrect CRC32c checksum value of
zero in addition to SCTP packets with correct CRC32c checksum values.

Because zero is a valid result of the CRC32c checksum algorithm, a receiver of an SCTP packet
containing a checksum value of zero cannot determine whether the sender included an incorrect
CRC32c checksum of zero to reduce the CPU cost or the result of the CRC32c checksum
computation was actually zero. However, if the receiver is willing to use an alternate error
detection method, this ambiguity is irrelevant, since the receiver is fine with not using the
CRC32c checksum to protect incoming packets.

4.  A New Chunk Parameter

The Zero Checksum Acceptable Chunk Parameter is defined by the following figure.

 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|          Type = 0x8001        |          Length = 8           |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|           Error Detection Method Identifier (EDMID)           |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 2: Zero Checksum Acceptable Chunk Parameter

Type: 16 bits (unsigned integer)

This field holds the IANA-defined parameter type for the "Zero Checksum Acceptable" chunk
parameter. IANA has assigned the value 32769 (0x8001) for this parameter type.

Length: 16 bits (unsigned integer)

This field holds the length in bytes of the chunk parameter; the value

MUST

 be 8.

Error Detection Method Identifier (EDMID): 32 bits (unsigned integer)

An IANA-registered value specifying the alternate error detection method the sender of this
parameter is willing to use for received packets.

All transported integer numbers are in network byte order, a.k.a. big endian.

The Zero Checksum Acceptable Chunk Parameter
MUST NOT
chunk.

MAY
 appear in any other chunk. The Parameter

 appear in INIT and INIT ACK chunks and
MUST NOT

 appear more than once in any

If an endpoint not supporting the extension described in this document receives this parameter
in an INIT or INIT ACK chunk, it is
further parameters in the chunk. This behavior is specified by
order two bits of the Type are '10'.

 to skip this parameter and continue to process
[RFC9260]

 because the highest-

REQUIRED

Tüxen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9653

Zero Checksum for SCTP

September 2024

5.  Procedures

5.1.  Declaration of Feature Support

An endpoint willing to accept SCTP packets with an incorrect checksum of zero
 include the
Zero Checksum Acceptable Chunk Parameter indicating the alternate error detection method it is
willing to use in the INIT or INIT ACK chunk it sends.

MUST

An SCTP implementation
specific alternate error detection method before including the corresponding Zero Checksum
Acceptable Chunk Parameter.

 also require the upper layer to indicate that it is fine to use a

MAY

5.2.  Sender-Side Considerations

An SCTP endpoint cannot just use an incorrect CRC32c checksum value of zero for all SCTP
packets it sends. The following restrictions apply:

1.

If an endpoint has not received an INIT or INIT ACK chunk containing a Zero Checksum
Acceptable Chunk Parameter indicating an alternate error detection method it supports from
its peer during the association setup, it
when an endpoint

 use a correct CRC32c checksum. In particular,

MUST

a.

b.

sends a packet containing an INIT chunk, it
in the packet containing the INIT chunk.

MUST

 include a correct CRC32c checksum

responds to an "Out of the Blue" (OOTB) SCTP packet, it
checksum in the response packet.

MUST

 include a correct CRC32c

2.

When an endpoint sends a packet containing a COOKIE ECHO chunk, it
MUST
correct CRC32c checksum in the packet containing the COOKIE ECHO chunk.

 include a

3.

When an endpoint supports the dynamic address reconfiguration specified in
sends a packet containing an ASCONF chunk, it
the packet containing the ASCONF chunk.

MUST

 include a correct CRC32c checksum in

[RFC5061]

 and

4.

If an alternate error detection method has some method-specific constraints, the sender
MUST
specific constraints.

 include a correct CRC32c checksum in all packets that don't fulfill these method-

The first restriction allows backwards compatibility. The second and third restrictions allow a
simpler implementation of the extension defined in this document, because looking up the
association for SCTP packets containing a COOKIE ECHO chunk or an ASCONF chunk might be
more complex than for other packets. Finally, the last restriction covers constraints specific to the
alternate error detection method.

An SCTP endpoint
method that was announced by the peer before sending packets with an incorrect checksum of
zero.

 require that the upper layer allow the use of the alternate error detection

MAY

Tüxen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9653

Zero Checksum for SCTP

September 2024

If none of the above restrictions apply, an endpoint
sending an SCTP packet.

SHOULD

 use zero as the checksum when

5.3.  Receiver-Side Considerations

If an endpoint has sent the Zero Checksum Acceptable Chunk Parameter indicating the support
of an alternate error detection method in an INIT or INIT ACK chunk, in addition to SCTP packets
containing the correct CRC32c checksum value it
incorrect checksum value of zero and that fulfill the requirements of the announced alternate
error detection method used for this association. Otherwise, the endpoint
 drop all SCTP
packets with an incorrect CRC32c checksum.

 accept SCTP packets that have an

MUST

MUST

In addition to processing OOTB packets with a correct CRC32c checksum as specified in
[RFC9260]
MAY
checksum. Doing so might result in faster SCTP association failure detection.

 also process OOTB packets having an incorrect zero

, an SCTP implementation

6.  Error Detection via SCTP over DTLS

Using SCTP over DTLS as specified in
 provides a stronger error detection method than
using the CRC32c checksum algorithm. Since middleboxes will not observe the unencrypted SCTP
packet, there is no risk in interfering with using zero as an incorrect checksum. There are no
additional constraints (specific to the error detection method) on packets when using DTLS
encapsulation.

[RFC8261]

7.  Socket API Considerations

This section describes how the socket API defined in
way for the application to control the acceptance of a zero checksum.

[RFC6458]

 needs to be extended to provide a

[RFC6458]

A 'Socket API Considerations' section is contained in all SCTP-related specifications published
after
specified in
section is informational only.

 describing an extension for which implementations using the socket API as
 would require some extension of the socket API. Please note that this

[RFC6458]

A socket API implementation based on
IPPROTO_SCTP-level socket option.

[RFC6458]

 is extended by supporting one new write-only

7.1.  Set Accepting a Zero Checksum (SCTP_ACCEPT_ZERO_CHECKSUM)

This IPPROTO_SCTP-level socket option with the name SCTP_ACCEPT_ZERO_CHECKSUM can be
used to control the acceptance of a zero checksum. It is a write-only socket option and applies
only to future SCTP associations on the socket.

This option expects an unsigned integer. Possible values include:

SCTP_EDMID_NONE:

Tüxen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9653

Zero Checksum for SCTP

September 2024

Disable the use of any alternate error detection method. This means that all SCTP packets
being received are only accepted if they have a correct CRC32c checksum value.

SCTP_EDMID_LOWER_LAYER_DTLS:

Use the alternate error detection method described in

Section 6.

An implementation might only send packets with an incorrect checksum of zero, if the alternate
error detection method announced by the peer is also enabled locally via this socket option.

The default for this socket option is that the use of alternate error detection methods is disabled.

8.  IANA Considerations

A new chunk parameter type has been assigned by IANA in the "Chunk Parameter Types"
registry for SCTP:

ID Value

Chunk Parameter Type

Reference

32769

Zero Checksum Acceptable (0x8001)

RFC 9653

Table 1: New Entry in "Chunk Parameter Types" Registry

Furthermore, IANA has established a new "Error Detection Method" registry for SCTP. The
assignment of new error detection methods is done through the Specification Required policy as
defined in
following information:

. Documentation for a new error detection method

 contain the

[RFC8126]

MUST

1.

A name of an alternate error detection method.

2.

A reference to a specification describing:

(a)

the alternate error detection method,

(b)

(c)

(d)

why the alternate error detection method provides an equal or lower probability of
false negatives than the one provided by using the CRC32c checksum,

any constraints (specific to the alternate error detection method) that are referred to
in the fourth exception in Section 5.2, and

why using the alternate error detection method does not result in path failures due to
middleboxes expecting correct CRC32c checksums for more than two RTOs. In case the
alternate error detection method uses a heuristic for detecting such middleboxes, this
heuristic needs to be described.

The initial contents of the registry are as follows:

ID Value

Error Detection Method

Reference

0

Reserved

RFC 9653

Tüxen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9653

Zero Checksum for SCTP

September 2024

ID Value

Error Detection Method

Reference

1

SCTP over DTLS

RFC 9653

2 - 4294967295

Unassigned

Table 2: Initial Contents of the "Error Detection Method"
Registry

A designated expert (DE) is expected to ascertain the existence of suitable documentation (a
specification) as described in
 and to verify that the document is permanently and
publicly available. Furthermore, the DE is expected to ensure that the above four points have
been addressed appropriately.

[RFC8126]

9.  Security Considerations

This document does not change the considerations given in

[RFC9260]
.

Due to the first requirement in Section 3, using an alternate error detection method provides an
equal or better level of data integrity than the one provided by using the CRC32c checksum
algorithm. The second requirement in Section 3 ensures that the existence of middleboxes
expecting correct CRC32c checksums does not result in permanent path failures.

10.  References

10.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC5061]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8261]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Stewart, R. Xie, Q. Tuexen, M. Maruyama, S.
Transmission Protocol (SCTP) Dynamic Address Reconfiguration" RFC 5061 DOI
10.17487/RFC5061

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5061>

M. Kozuka "Stream Control

, September 2007,

, and

,

,

,

,

,

.

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

, June

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Tuexen, M. Stewart, R. Jesup, R.
Security (DTLS) Encapsulation of SCTP Packets" RFC 8261 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8261

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8261>

S. Loreto "Datagram Transport Layer

, November 2017,

, and

,

,

.

Tüxen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9653

Zero Checksum for SCTP

September 2024

[RFC9260]

K. Nielsen "Stream Control Transmission Protocol"

,

Stewart, R. Tüxen, M.
,
RFC 9260 DOI 10.17487/RFC9260
rfc9260>

, and

,
.

,
, June 2022,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

10.2.  Informative References

[RFC0768]

[RFC4895]

[RFC6458]

[RFC9293]

,

Postel, J. "User Datagram Protocol" STD 6 RFC 768 DOI 10.17487/RFC0768
August 1980,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc768>

,

,

.

,

,

,

Tuexen, M. Stewart, R. Lei, P.
Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP)" RFC 4895 DOI 10.17487/RFC4895
,
August 2007,

E. Rescorla "Authenticated Chunks for the
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4895>

, and

,
,

,

.

,

Stewart, R. Tuexen, M. Poon, K. Lei, P.
for the Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP)" RFC 6458 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6458

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6458>

V. Yasevich "Sockets API Extensions

, December 2011,

, and

,

,

,

.

,

,

Eddy, W., Ed. "Transmission Control Protocol (TCP)" STD 7 RFC 9293 DOI
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9293>
10.17487/RFC9293
.

, August 2022,

,

,

,

Acknowledgments

The authors wish to thank
,
Heard Peter Lei Nils Ohlmeier Claudio Porfiri Greg Skinner Timo Völker Éric Vyncke
Magnus Westerlund

Bernard Aboba Deb Cooley Martin Duke Gorry Fairhurst Mike

 for their invaluable comments.

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

, and

Authors' Addresses

Michael Tüxen
Münster University of Applied Sciences
Stegerwaldstrasse 39
48565 Steinfurt
Germany
Email:

tuexen@fh-muenster.de

Victor Boivie
Google
Kungsbron 2
SE-11122 Stockholm
Sweden
Email:

boivie@google.com

Tüxen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9653

Zero Checksum for SCTP

September 2024

Florent Castelli
Google
Kungsbron 2
SE-11122 Stockholm
Sweden
Email:

orphis@google.com

Randell Jesup
Mozilla Corporation
1835 Horse Shoe Trl
Malvern PA 19355
,
United States of America
Email:

randell-ietf@jesup.org

Tüxen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

