Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9751
8088
Standards Track
March 2025
2070-1721
M. Westerlund
Ericsson

RFC 9751
Closing the RTP Payload Format Media Types
Registry

Abstract

The working group process and the authors of RTP payload formats have sometimes failed to
ensure that the media types are registered in the IANA "RTP Payload Format Media Types"
registry as recommended by RFC 8088. To simplify the process and rely only on the "Media
Types" registry, this document closes the RTP payload- specific registry. In addition, it updates
the instruction in RFC 8088 to reflect this change.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9751
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Westerlund

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9751

Closing the RTP Payload Format Registry

March 2025

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Update to How to Write an RTP Payload Format

3.  IANA Considerations

4.  Security Considerations

5.  References

5.1.  Normative References

5.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

2

3

3

5

5

5

5

6

6

Sometimes, authors defining new Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP) payload formats forgot to
specify registration of the format's media type in the "RTP Payload Format Media Types" registry
[RTP-FORMATS]
. In practice, this has no real impact. This registry
is not used for any purpose other than to track which media types actually have RTP payload
formats, which can be done through other means.

 as recommended by

[RFC8088]

It is required that media types be registered in the "Media Types" registry
 to
identify the format in various signalling usages, avoid collisions, and reference the defining
specifications.

[MEDIA-TYPES]

To resolve this situation, this document:

•

updates the "RTP Payload Format Media Types" registry to include known RTP payload
formats at the time of writing,

•

closes the "RTP Payload Format Media Types" registry to future registrations and lists this
RFC as a reference, and

•

removes from
Format Media Types" registry.

[RFC8088]

 the instruction to register RTP payload formats in the "RTP Payload

Westerlund

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9751

Closing the RTP Payload Format Registry

March 2025

[RFC4855]

The origins of the "RTP Payload Format Media Types" registry, as referenced in
are unclear. The registry cites
However, upon reviewing RFC 4855, no text has been found that defines the registry's purpose
and operational rules. Further attempts to trace the registry's creation have failed to uncover
any references to its establishment. It is likely that the registry was created based on email
correspondence or at the request of an Area Director. Consequently, there is no known
specification for this registry that requires updating upon its closure.

 as providing the instructions for its maintenance.

[RTP-FORMATS]
,

2.  Update to How to Write an RTP Payload Format

The IANA Considerations section of "How to write an RTP Payload Format" (
[RFC8088]
) mandates that RTP payload formats shall be registered in the "RTP Payload Format
Media Types" registry. The following paragraph is updated as shown below, thus removing the
need for media types to be registered in the "RTP Payload Format Media Types" registry. Note
that this update does not impact the rest of RFC 8088's status as an Informational RFC.

Section 7.4 of

OLD:

Since all RTP payload formats contain a media type specification, they also need an
IANA Considerations section. The media type name must be registered, and this is done
by requesting that IANA register that media name. When that registration request is
written, it shall also be requested that the media type is included under the "RTP
Payload Format media types" sub-registry of the RTP registry (http://www.iana.org/
assignments/rtp-parameters).

NEW:

Since all RTP payload formats contain a media type specification, they also need an
IANA Considerations section. The media type name must be registered, and this is done
by requesting that IANA register that media name in the "Media Types" registry (
https://
www.iana.org/assignments/media-types/
).

3.  IANA Considerations

IANA has added the following RTP payload types to the "RTP Payload Format Media Types"
registry

[RTP-FORMATS]
.

Media Type

Subtype

Clock Rate (Hz)

Channels (audio)

Reference

application

flexfec

audio

EVRCNW 16000

RFC 8627

RFC 6884

Westerlund

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9751

Closing the RTP Payload Format Registry

March 2025

Media Type

Subtype

Clock Rate (Hz)

Channels (audio)

Reference

audio

audio

audio

audio

audio

audio

text

text

video

video

video

video

video

video

video

EVRCNW0

16000

EVRCNW1

16000

aptx

opus

G711-0

flexfec

flexfec

ttml+xml

VP8

AV1

48000

90000

90000

HEVC

90000

smpte291

VVC

EVC

flexfec

90000

90000

RFC 6884

RFC 6884

RFC 7310

RFC 7587

RFC 7650

RFC 8627

RFC 8627

RFC 8759

RFC 7741

[AV1-Media-Type]

RFC 7798

RFC 8331

RFC 9328

RFC 9584

RFC 8627

Table 1: Payload Types Added to the RTP Payload Format Media Types Registry

IANA has updated the following entries in the "RTP Payload Format Media Types" registry
FORMATS]
.

[RTP-

Media Type

Subtype

Clock Rate (Hz)

Channels (audio)

Reference

audio

video

MP4A-LATM

MP4V-ES

90000

RFC 6416

RFC 6416

Table 2: Payload Types Updated in RTP Payload Format Media Types Registry

IANA has also closed the "RTP Payload Format Media Types" registry
further registrations. IANA added the following to the registry note:

[RTP-FORMATS]

 to any

NEW:

Westerlund

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9751

Closing the RTP Payload Format Registry

March 2025

This registry has been closed; it was considered redundant because all RTP payload
formats are part of the [Media Types registry]. See RFC 9751 for further details.

In addition, IANA updated the note in the "RTP Payload Format Media Types" registry
FORMATS]

 as follows:

[RTP-

OLD:

Registration procedures and a registration template can be found in

[RFC4855]

.

NEW:

It was previously stated that registration procedures and a registration template can be
. As documented in RFC 9751, this is not the case.
found in

[RFC4855]

4.  Security Considerations

This document has no security considerations as it defines an administrative rule change.

5.  References

5.1.  Normative References

[AV1-Media-Type]

,

IANA "video/AV1" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/media-types/video/
.

,

AV1>

[MEDIA-TYPES]

[RFC8088]

IANA "Media Types" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/media-types>

,

,

.

Westerlund, M. "How to Write an RTP Payload Format" RFC 8088 DOI 10.17487/
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8088>
RFC8088

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

[RTP-FORMATS]

IANA "RTP Payload Format Media Types" <https://www.iana.org/

,

,

assignments/rtp-parameters>

.

5.2.  Informative References

[RFC4855]

Casner, S. "Media Type Registration of RTP Payload Formats" RFC 4855 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4855>
10.17487/RFC4855
.

, February 2007,

,

,

,

Westerlund

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9751

Closing the RTP Payload Format Registry

March 2025

Acknowledgments

The author thanks
Hardaker Gunter Van de Velde Éric Vyncke Mahesh Jethanandani
,
reviews and editorial fixes.

Jonathan Lennox Zaheduzzaman Sarker Bernard Aboba Elwyn Davies Wes
,
 for their

Hyunsik Yang

, and

,

,

,

,

,

Author's Address

Magnus Westerlund
Ericsson
Email:

magnus.westerlund@ericsson.com

Westerlund

Standards Track

Page 6

