Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9256
8402
Standards Track
July 2022
2070-1721
C. Filsﬁls
Cisco Systems, Inc.

K. Talaulikar,
 Ed.
Cisco Systems, Inc.

Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

P. Mattes
Microsoft

D. Voyer
Bell Canada

A. Bogdanov
British Telecom

RFC 9256
Segment Routing Policy Architecture

Abstract

Segment Routing (SR) allows a node to steer a packet ﬂow along any path. Intermediate per-path
states are eliminated thanks to source routing. SR Policy is an ordered list of segments (i.e.,
instructions) that represent a source-routed policy. Packet ﬂows are steered into an SR Policy on a
node where it is instantiated called a headend node. The packets steered into an SR Policy carry
an ordered list of segments associated with that SR Policy.

This document updates RFC 8402 as it details the concepts of SR Policy and steering into an SR
Policy.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9256
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Filsﬁls, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9256

SR Policy Architecture

July 2022

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

2.  SR Policy

2.1.  Identiﬁcation of an SR Policy

2.2.  Candidate Path and Segment List

2.3.  Protocol-Origin of a Candidate Path

2.4.  Originator of a Candidate Path

2.5.  Discriminator of a Candidate Path

2.6.  Identiﬁcation of a Candidate Path

2.7.  Preference of a Candidate Path

2.8.  Validity of a Candidate Path

2.9.  Active Candidate Path

2.10. Validity of an SR Policy

2.11. Instantiation of an SR Policy in the Forwarding Plane

2.12. Priority of an SR Policy

2.13. Summary

3.  Segment Routing Database

4.  Segment Types

4.1.  Explicit Null

5.  Validity of a Candidate Path

5.1.  Explicit Candidate Path

5.2.  Dynamic Candidate Path

5.3.  Composite Candidate Path

Filsﬁls, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9256

SR Policy Architecture

July 2022

6.  Binding SID

6.1.  BSID of a Candidate Path

6.2.  BSID of an SR Policy

6.3.  Forwarding Plane

6.4.  Non-SR Usage of Binding SID

7.  SR Policy State

8.  Steering into an SR Policy

8.1.  Validity of an SR Policy

8.2.  Drop-upon-Invalid SR Policy

8.3.  Incoming Active SID is a BSID

8.4.  Per-Destination Steering

8.5.  Recursion on an On-Demand Dynamic BSID

8.6.  Per-Flow Steering

8.7.  Policy-Based Routing

8.8.  Optional Steering Modes for BGP Destinations

9.  Recovering from Network Failures

9.1.  Leveraging TI-LFA Local Protection of the Constituent IGP Segments

9.2.  Using an SR Policy to Locally Protect a Link

9.3.  Using a Candidate Path for Path Protection

10. Security Considerations

11. Manageability Considerations

12. IANA Considerations

12.1.  Guidance for Designated Experts

13. References

13.1.  Normative References

13.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgement

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

Filsﬁls, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9256

SR Policy Architecture

July 2022

1.  Introduction

[RFC8402]

Segment Routing (SR)
is a node where the instructions for source routing (i.e., segments) are written into the packet. It
hence becomes the starting node for a speciﬁc segment routing path. Intermediate per-path
states are eliminated thanks to source routing.

 allows a node to steer a packet ﬂow along any path. The headend

[RFC8402]

A Segment Routing Policy (SR Policy)
 is an ordered list of segments (i.e., instructions)
that represent a source-routed policy. The headend node is said to steer a ﬂow into an SR Policy.
The packets steered into an SR Policy have an ordered list of segments associated with that SR
Policy written into them.
[RFC8660]
list of segments as an MPLS label stack for SR-MPLS, while
same for Segment Routing over IPv6 (SRv6) with the use of the Segment Routing Header (SRH).

 describes the representation and processing of this ordered
 describe the

[RFC8986]

[RFC8754]

 and

 introduces the SR Policy construct and provides an overview of how it is leveraged for

[RFC8402]
Segment Routing use cases. This document updates
Policy and steering packets into an SR Policy. It applies equally to the SR-MPLS and SRv6
instantiations of segment routing.

 to specify detailed concepts of SR

[RFC8402]

1.1.  Requirements Language

", "
The key words "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
"
", "
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

2.  SR Policy

The general concept of SR Policy provides a framework that enables the instantiation of an
ordered list of segments on a node for implementing a source routing policy for the steering of
traﬃc for a speciﬁc purpose (e.g., for a speciﬁc Service Level Agreement (SLA)) from that node.

The Segment Routing architecture
 speciﬁes that any instruction can be bound to a
segment. Thus, an SR Policy can be built using any type of Segment Identiﬁer (SID) including
those associated with topological or service instructions.

[RFC8402]

This section deﬁnes the key aspects and constituents of an SR Policy.

2.1.  Identiﬁcation of an SR Policy

An SR Policy
MUST
speciﬁc headend, an SR Policy

 be identiﬁed through the tuple <Headend, Color, Endpoint>. In the context of a
 be identiﬁed by the <Color, Endpoint> tuple.

MUST

The headend is the node where the policy is instantiated/implemented. The headend is speciﬁed
as an IPv4 or IPv6 address and

 resolve to a unique node in the SR domain

[RFC8402]

MUST

.

Filsﬁls, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9256

SR Policy Architecture

July 2022

The endpoint indicates the destination of the policy. The endpoint is speciﬁed as an IPv4 or IPv6
 resolve to a unique node in the domain. In a speciﬁc case (refer to Section
address and
8.8.1), the endpoint can be the unspeciﬁed address (0.0.0.0 for IPv4, :: for IPv6) and in this case, the
destination of the policy is indicated by the last segment in the segment list(s).

SHOULD

The color is an unsigned non-zero 32-bit integer value that associates the SR Policy with an intent
or objective (e.g., low latency).

The endpoint and the color are used to automate the steering of service or transport routes on SR
Policies (refer to Section 8).

MAY

 allow the assignment of a symbolic name comprising printable ASCII
 characters (i.e., 0x20 to 0x7E) to an SR Policy to serve as a user-friendly attribute for

An implementation
[RFC0020]
debugging and troubleshooting purposes. Such symbolic names may identify an SR Policy when
the naming scheme ensures uniqueness. The SR Policy name
MAY
candidate path of the SR Policy (refer to Section 2.2). An SR Policy
associated with it in the scenario where the headend receives diﬀerent SR Policy names along
with diﬀerent candidate paths for the same SR Policy via the same or diﬀerent sources.

 also be signaled along with a
 have multiple names
MAY

2.2.  Candidate Path and Segment List

An SR Policy is associated with one or more candidate paths. A candidate path is the unit for
signaling of an SR Policy to a headend via protocol extensions like the Path Computation Element
[RFC8664] [PCEP-SR-POLICY-CP]
Communication Protocol (PCEP)
POLICY]

 or BGP SR Policy

[BGP-SR-

.

A segment list represents a speciﬁc source-routed path to send traﬃc from the headend to the
endpoint of the corresponding SR Policy.

A candidate path is either dynamic, explicit, or composite.

An explicit candidate path is expressed as a segment list or a set of segment lists.

A dynamic candidate path expresses an optimization objective and a set of constraints for a
speciﬁc data plane (i.e., SR-MPLS or SRv6). The headend (potentially with the help of a PCE)
computes a solution segment list (or set of segment lists) that solves the optimization problem.

If a candidate path is associated with a set of segment lists, each segment list is associated with
weight for weighted load balancing (refer to Section 2.11 for details). The default weight is 1.

A composite candidate path acts as a container for grouping SR Policies. The composite candidate
path construct enables the combination of SR Policies, each with explicit candidate paths and/or
dynamic candidate paths with potentially diﬀerent optimization objectives and constraints, for
load-balanced steering of packet ﬂows over its constituent SR Policies. The following criteria
apply for inclusion of constituent SR Policies using a composite candidate path under a parent SR
Policy:

•

The endpoints of the constituent SR Policies and the parent SR Policy

MUST

 be identical.

Filsﬁls, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9256

SR Policy Architecture

July 2022

•

The colors of each of the constituent SR Policies and the parent SR Policy

MUST

 be diﬀerent.

•

The constituent SR Policies

MUST NOT

 use composite candidate paths.

Each constituent SR Policy of a composite candidate path is associated with weight for load-
balancing purposes (refer to Section 2.11 for details). The default weight is 1.

Section 2.13 illustrates an information model for hierarchical relationships between the SR Policy
constructs described in this section.

2.3.  Protocol-Origin of a Candidate Path

A headend may be informed about a candidate path for an SR Policy <Color, Endpoint> by
, or BGP
various means including: via conﬁguration, PCEP
SR-POLICY]

[RFC8664] [PCEP-SR-POLICY-CP]

.

[BGP-

Protocol-Origin of a candidate path is an 8-bit value associated with the mechanism or protocol
used for signaling/provisioning the SR Policy. It helps identify the protocol/mechanism that
provides or signals the candidate path and indicates its preference relative to other protocols/
mechanisms.

The headend assigns diﬀerent Protocol-Origin values to each source of SR Policy information. The
Protocol-Origin value is used as a tiebreaker between candidate paths of equal Preference, as
described in Section 2.9. The table below speciﬁes the
Origin:

 default values of Protocol-

RECOMMENDED

Protocol-Origin

Description

10

20

30

PCEP

BGP SR Policy

Via Conﬁguration

Table 1: Protocol-Origin Default Values

Note that the above order is to satisfy the need for having a clear ordering, and implementations
 allow modiﬁcations of these default values assigned to protocols on the headend along
MAY
similar lines as a routing administrative distance. Its application in the candidate path selection
is described in Section 2.9.

2.4.  Originator of a Candidate Path

The Originator identiﬁes the node that provisioned or signaled the candidate path on the
headend. The Originator is expressed in the form of a 160-bit numerical value formed by the
concatenation of the ﬁelds of the tuple <Autonomous System Number (ASN), node-address> as
below:

Autonomous System Number (ASN):

Filsﬁls, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9256

SR Policy Architecture

July 2022

represented as a 4-byte number. If 2-byte ASNs are in use, the low-order 16 bits
and the high-order bits

 be set to 0.

MUST

MUST

 be used,

Node Address:

represented as a 128-bit value. IPv4 addresses

MUST

 be encoded in the lowest 32

bits, and the high-order bits

MUST

 be set to 0.

Its application in the candidate path selection is described in Section 2.9.

When provisioning is via conﬁguration, the ASN and node address
headend or the provisioning controller/node ASN and address. The default value is 0 for both AS
and node address.

 be set to either the

MAY

When signaling is via PCEP, it is the IPv4 or IPv6 address of the PCE, and the AS number is expected
to be set to 0 by default when not available or known.

When signaling is via BGP SR Policy, the ASN and node address are provided by BGP (refer to
[BGP-SR-POLICY]

) on the headend.

2.5.  Discriminator of a Candidate Path

The Discriminator is a 32-bit value associated with a candidate path that uniquely identiﬁes it
within the context of an SR Policy from a speciﬁc Protocol-Origin as speciﬁed below:

•

When provisioning is via conﬁguration, this is a unique identiﬁer for a candidate path; it is
speciﬁc to the implementation's conﬁguration model. The default value is 0.

•

When signaling is via PCEP, the method to uniquely signal an individual candidate path along
with its Discriminator is described in

. The default value is 0.

[PCEP-SR-POLICY-CP]

•

When signaling is via BGP SR Policy, the BGP process receiving the route provides the
distinguisher (refer to
selection is applied before the route is supplied as a candidate path, so only a single candidate
path for a given SR Policy will be seen for a given Discriminator.

) as the Discriminator. Note that the BGP best path

[BGP-SR-POLICY]

Its application in the candidate path selection is described in Section 2.9.

2.6.  Identiﬁcation of a Candidate Path

A candidate path is identiﬁed in the context of a single SR Policy.

A candidate path is not shared across SR Policies.

A candidate path is not identiﬁed by its segment list(s).

If CP1 is a candidate path of SR Policy Pol1 and CP2 is a candidate path of SR Policy
Pol2, then these two candidate paths are independent, even if they happen to have
the same segment list. The segment list does not identify a candidate path. The
segment list is an attribute of a candidate path.

Filsﬁls, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9256

SR Policy Architecture

July 2022

The identity of a candidate path
<Headend, Color, Endpoint> to handle add, delete, or modify operations on them in an
unambiguous manner regardless of their source(s).

 be uniquely established in the context of an SR Policy

MUST

The tuple <Protocol-Origin, Originator, Discriminator> uniquely identiﬁes a candidate path.

[RFC0020]

 also be assigned or signaled with a symbolic name comprising printable

MAY
 characters (i.e., 0x20 to 0x7E) to serve as a user-friendly attribute for debugging

Candidate paths
ASCII
and troubleshooting purposes. Such symbolic names
candidate path. The signaling of the candidate path name via BGP and PCEP is described in
SR-POLICY]

 be considered as identiﬁers for a
[BGP-

[PCEP-SR-POLICY-CP]

, respectively.

MUST NOT

 and

2.7.  Preference of a Candidate Path

The Preference of the candidate path is used to select the best candidate path for an SR Policy. It is
a 32-bit value where a higher value indicates higher preference and the default Preference value is
100.

It is

RECOMMENDED

 that each candidate path of a given SR Policy has a diﬀerent Preference.

The signaling of the candidate path Preference via BGP and PCEP is described in
and

[PCEP-SR-POLICY-CP]

, respectively.

[BGP-SR-POLICY]

2.8.  Validity of a Candidate Path

A candidate path is usable when it is valid. The
the validity of at least one of its constituent segment lists. The validation rules are speciﬁed in
Section 5.

 candidate path validity criterion is

RECOMMENDED

2.9.  Active Candidate Path

A candidate path is selected when it is valid and it is determined to be the best path of the SR
Policy. The selected path is referred to as the "active path" of the SR Policy in this document.

Whenever a new path is learned or an active path is deleted, the validity of an existing path
changes, or an existing path is changed, the selection process

 be re-executed.

MUST

The candidate path selection process operates primarily on the candidate path Preference. A
candidate path is selected when it is valid and it has the highest Preference value among all the
valid candidate paths of the SR Policy.

In the case of multiple valid candidate paths of the same Preference, the tie-breaking rules are
evaluated on the identiﬁcation tuple in the following order until only one valid best path is
selected:

1.

The higher value of Protocol-Origin is selected.

2.

If speciﬁed by conﬁguration, prefer the existing installed path.

3.

The lower value of the Originator is selected.

Filsﬁls, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9256

SR Policy Architecture

July 2022

4.

Finally, the higher value of the Discriminator is selected.

The rules are framed with multiple protocols and sources in mind and hence may not follow the
logic of a single protocol (e.g., BGP best path selection). The motivation behind these rules are as
follows:

•

The Preference, being the primary criterion, allows an operator to inﬂuence selection across
paths thus allowing provisioning of multiple path options, e.g., CP1 is preferred as its
Preference value is the highest, and if it becomes invalid, then CP2 with the next highest
Preference value is selected, and so on. Since Preference works across protocol sources, it
also enables (where necessary) selective override of the default Protocol-Origin preference,
e.g., to prefer a path signaled via BGP SR Policy over what is conﬁgured.

•

The Protocol-Origin allows an operator to set up a default selection mechanism across
protocol sources, e.g., to prefer conﬁgured paths over paths signaled via BGP SR Policy or
PCEP.

•

The Originator allows an operator to have multiple redundant controllers and still maintain
a deterministic behavior over which of them are preferred even if they are providing the
same candidate paths for the same SR policies to the headend.

•

The Discriminator performs the ﬁnal tie-breaking step to ensure a deterministic outcome of
selection regardless of the order in which candidate paths are signaled across multiple
transport channels or sessions.

[SR-POLICY-CONSID]
rules.

 provides a set of examples to illustrate the active candidate path selection

2.10.  Validity of an SR Policy

An SR Policy is valid when it has at least one valid candidate path.

2.11.  Instantiation of an SR Policy in the Forwarding Plane

Generally, only valid SR policies are instantiated in the forwarding plane.

Only the active candidate path
policy except for certain scenarios such as fast reroute where a backup candidate path may be
used as described in Section 9.3.

 be used for forwarding traﬃc that is being steered onto that

MUST

If a set of segment lists is associated with the active path of the policy, then the steering is per ﬂow
and weighted-ECMP (W-ECMP) based according to the relative weight of each segment list.

The fraction of the ﬂows associated with a given segment list is w/Sw, where w is the weight of the
segment list and Sw is the sum of the weights of the segment lists of the selected path of the SR
Policy.

Filsﬁls, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9256

SR Policy Architecture

July 2022

When a composite candidate path is active, the fraction of ﬂows steered into each constituent SR
Policy is equal to the relative weight of each constituent SR Policy. Further load-balancing of ﬂows
steered into a constituent SR Policy is performed based on the weights of the segment list of the
active candidate path of that constituent SR Policy.

The accuracy of the weighted load-balancing depends on the platform implementation.

2.12.  Priority of an SR Policy

Upon topological change, many policies could be re-computed or revalidated. An implementation
 provide a per-policy priority conﬁguration. The operator may set this ﬁeld to indicate the
MAY
order in which the policies should be re-computed. Such a priority is represented by an integer in
the range (0, 255) where the lowest value is the highest priority. The default value of priority is 128.

An SR Policy may comprise multiple candidate paths received from the same or diﬀerent sources.
A candidate path
 be signaled with a priority value. When an SR Policy has multiple candidate
paths with distinct signaled non-default priority values and the SR Policy itself does not have a
priority value conﬁgured, the SR Policy as a whole takes the lowest value (i.e., the highest priority)
amongst these signaled priority values.

MAY

2.13.  Summary

In summary, the information model is the following:

<Headend = H1, Color = 1, Endpoint = E1>

<Protocol-Origin = 20, Originator = 64511:192.0.2.1, Discriminator = 1>

10

200

SR Policy POL1
Candidate Path CP1
Preference
Priority
Segment List 1
Segment List 2
Candidate Path CP2
Preference
Priority
Segment List 3
Segment List 4

100

10

<SID11...SID1i>, Weight W1
<SID21...SID2j>, Weight W2

<SID31...SID3i>, Weight W3
<SID41...SID4j>, Weight W4

<Protocol-Origin = 20, Originator = 64511:192.0.2.2, Discriminator = 2>

The SR Policy POL1 is identiﬁed by the tuple <Headend, Color, Endpoint>. It has two candidate
paths: CP1 and CP2. Each is identiﬁed by a tuple <Protocol-Origin, Originator, Discriminator>
within the scope of POL1. CP1 is the active candidate path (it is valid and has the highest
Preference). The two segment lists of CP1 are installed as the forwarding instantiation of SR
Policy POL1. Traﬃc steered on POL1 is ﬂow-based hashed on segment list <SID11...SID1i> with a
ratio W1/(W1+W2).

The information model of SR Policy POL100 having a composite candidate path is the following:

SR Policy POL100 <Headend = H1, Color = 100, Endpoint = E1>

Filsﬁls, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9256

SR Policy Architecture

July 2022

Candidate Path CP1 <Protocol-Origin = 20, Originator = 64511:192.0.2.1, Discriminator = 1>
Preference 200
SR Policy <Color = 1>, Weight W1
SR Policy <Color = 2>, Weight W2

The constituent SR Policies POL1 and POL2 have an information model as described at the start of
this section. They are referenced only by color in the composite candidate path since their
headend and endpoint are identical to the POL100. The valid segment lists of the active candidate
path of POL1 and POL2 are installed in the forwarding. Traﬃc steered on POL100 is hashed on a
per-ﬂow basis on POL1 with a proportion W1/(W1+W2). Within the POL1, the ﬂow-based hashing
over its segment lists are performed as described earlier in this section.

3.  Segment Routing Database

An SR Policy computation node (e.g., headend or controller) maintains the Segment Routing
Database (SR-DB). The SR-DB is a conceptual database to illustrate the various pieces of
information and their sources that may help in SR Policy computation and validation. There is no
speciﬁc requirement for an implementation to create a new database as such.

An SR headend leverages the SR-DB to validate explicit candidate paths and compute dynamic
candidate paths.

The information in the SR-DB may include:

•

IGP information (topology, IGP metrics based on IS-IS
[RFC5340]

)

[RFC1195]

 and OSPF

[RFC2328]

•

Segment Routing information (such as Segment Routing Global Block, Segment Routing Local
Block, Preﬁx-SIDs, Adj-SIDs, BGP Peering SID, SRv6 SIDs)

[RFC8402] [RFC8986]

•

TE Link Attributes (such as TE metric, Shared Risk Link Groups, attribute-ﬂag, extended
admin group)

[RFC5305] [RFC3630] [RFC5329]

•

Extended TE Link attributes (such as latency, loss)

[RFC8570] [RFC7471]

•

Inter-AS Topology information

[RFC9086]

The attached domain topology may be learned via protocol/mechanisms such as IGP, Border
Gateway Protocol - Link State (BGP-LS), or NETCONF.

A non-attached (remote) domain topology may be learned via protocol/mechanisms such as
BGP-LS or NETCONF.

In some use cases, the SR-DB may only contain the attached domain topology while in others, the
SR-DB may contain the topology of multiple domains and in this case, it is multi-domain capable.

The SR-DB may also contain the SR Policies instantiated in the network. This can be collected via
[PCEP-BSID-
BGP-LS
LABEL]
policies (see Section 6 for further details).

[BGP-LS-TE-POLICY]
). This information allows to build an end-to-end policy on the basis of intermediate SR

[PCEP-SR-POLICY-CP]

 (along with

[RFC8231]

 or PCEP

 and

Filsﬁls, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9256

SR Policy Architecture

July 2022

The SR-DB may also contain the Maximum SID Depth (MSD) capability of nodes in the topology.
.
This can be collected via IS-IS

[RFC8664]

[RFC8814]

[RFC8476]

[RFC8491]

, or PCEP

, BGP-LS

, OSPF

The use of the SR-DB for path computation and for the validation of optimization objective and
constraints of paths is outside the scope of this document. Some implementation aspects related
to path computation are covered in

[SR-POLICY-CONSID]

.

4.  Segment Types

A segment list is an ordered set of segments represented as <S1, S2, ... Sn> where S1 is the ﬁrst
segment.

Based on the desired data plane, either the MPLS label stack or the SRv6 Segment Routing Header
[RFC8754]
diﬀerent segment-descriptor types and the following are currently deﬁned:

 is built from the segment list. However, the segment list itself can be speciﬁed using

Type A: SR-MPLS Label:

[RFC8402]

An MPLS label corresponding to any of the segment types deﬁned for SR-MPLS (as deﬁned
in
labels like explicit-null or in general any MPLS label
type can be used to specify a label representation that maps to an optical transport path
on a packet transport node.

 or other SR-MPLS speciﬁcations) can be used. Additionally, special purpose
 also be used. For example, this

MAY

Type B: SRv6 SID:

An IPv6 address corresponding to any of the SID behaviors for SRv6 (as deﬁned in
[RFC8986]
deﬁned in
MAY
building the segment list.

 or other SRv6 speciﬁcations) can be used. Optionally, the SRv6 SID behavior (as
)
 or other SRv6 speciﬁcations) and structure (as deﬁned in
[RFC8986]
[RFC8986]
 also be provided for the headend to perform validation of the SID when using it for

Type C: IPv4 Preﬁx with optional SR Algorithm:

In this case, the headend is required to resolve the speciﬁed IPv4 Preﬁx Address to the SR-
MPLS label corresponding to its Preﬁx SID segment (as deﬁned in
algorithm (refer to

Section 3.1.1 of [RFC8402]

 also be provided.

) to be used

[RFC8402]

). The SR

MAY

Type D: IPv6 Global Preﬁx with optional SR Algorithm for SR-MPLS:

In this case, the headend is required to resolve the speciﬁed IPv6 Global Preﬁx Address to
the SR-MPLS label corresponding to its Preﬁx SID segment (as deﬁned in
Algorithm (refer to

Section 3.1.1 of [RFC8402]

 also be provided.

) to be used

[RFC8402]

MAY

). The SR

Type E: IPv4 Preﬁx with Local Interface ID:

[RFC8402]

This type allows for identiﬁcation of an Adjacency SID or BGP Peer Adjacency SID (as
deﬁned in
) SR-MPLS label for point-to-point links including IP unnumbered
links. The headend is required to resolve the speciﬁed IPv4 Preﬁx Address to the node
originating it and then use the Local Interface ID to identify the point-to-point link whose
adjacency is being referred to. The Local Interface ID link descriptor follows semantics as

Filsﬁls, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9256

SR Policy Architecture

July 2022

[RFC5307]

speciﬁed in
interface (i.e., without IP address) like a representation of an optical transport path or a
layer 2 Ethernet port or circuit at the speciﬁed node.

. This type can also be used to indicate indirection into a layer 2

Type F: IPv4 Addresses for link endpoints as Local, Remote pair:

[RFC8402]

This type allows for identiﬁcation of an Adjacency SID or BGP Peer Adjacency SID (as
deﬁned in
) SR-MPLS label for links. The headend is required to resolve the
speciﬁed IPv4 Local Address to the node originating it and then use the IPv4 Remote
Address to identify the link adjacency being referred to. The Local and Remote Address pair
link descriptors follow semantics as speciﬁed in

[RFC7752]

.

Type G: IPv6 Preﬁx and Interface ID for link endpoints as Local, Remote pair for SR-MPLS:

[RFC8402]

) label for links including those with only Link-Local IPv6 addresses.

This type allows for identiﬁcation of an Adjacency SID or BGP Peer Adjacency SID (as
deﬁned in
The headend is required to resolve the speciﬁed IPv6 Preﬁx Address to the node originating
it and then use the Local Interface ID to identify the point-to-point link whose adjacency is
being referred to. For other than point-to-point links, additionally the speciﬁc adjacency
over the link needs to be resolved using the Remote Preﬁx and Interface ID. The Local and
Remote pair of Preﬁx and Interface ID link descriptor follows semantics as speciﬁed in
. This type can also be used to indicate indirection into a layer 2 interface (i.e.,
[RFC7752]
without IP address) like a representation of an optical transport path or a layer 2 Ethernet
port or circuit at the speciﬁed node.

Type H: IPv6 Addresses for link endpoints as Local, Remote pair for SR-MPLS:

[RFC8402]

This type allows for identiﬁcation of an Adjacency SID or BGP Peer Adjacency SID (as
deﬁned in
) label for links with Global IPv6 addresses. The headend is required to
resolve the speciﬁed Local IPv6 Address to the node originating it and then use the Remote
IPv6 Address to identify the link adjacency being referred to. The Local and Remote
Address pair link descriptors follow semantics as speciﬁed in

[RFC7752]

.

Type I: IPv6 Global Preﬁx with optional SR Algorithm for SRv6:

The headend is required to resolve the speciﬁed IPv6 Global Preﬁx Address to an SRv6 SID
corresponding to a Preﬁx SID segment (as deﬁned in
), such as a SID associated
with the End behavior (as deﬁned in
) of the node that is originating the preﬁx.
The SR Algorithm (refer to
[RFC8986]
provided.

Section 3.1.1 of [RFC8402]
 or other SRv6 speciﬁcations), and structure (as deﬁned in

), the SRv6 SID behavior (as deﬁned in

[RFC8986] MAY

[RFC8986]

[RFC8402]

)

 also be

Type J: IPv6 Preﬁx and Interface ID for link endpoints as Local, Remote pair for SRv6:

[RFC8986]

This type allows for identiﬁcation of an SRv6 SID corresponding to an Adjacency SID or
), such as a SID associated with the End.X
BGP Peer Adjacency SID (as deﬁned in
[RFC8402]
behavior (as deﬁned in
) associated with link or adjacency with only Link-Local
IPv6 addresses. The headend is required to resolve the speciﬁed IPv6 Preﬁx Address to the
node originating it and then use the Local Interface ID to identify the point-to-point link
whose adjacency is being referred to. For other than point-to-point links, additionally the
speciﬁc adjacency needs to be resolved using the Remote Preﬁx and Interface ID. The Local
and Remote pair of Preﬁx and Interface ID link descriptor follows semantics as speciﬁed in

Filsﬁls, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9256

SR Policy Architecture

July 2022

[RFC7752]
deﬁned in
MAY

 also be provided.

. The SR Algorithm (refer to
[RFC8986]

Section 3.1.1 of [RFC8402]
 or other SRv6 speciﬁcations), and structure (as deﬁned in

), the SRv6 SID behavior (as
[RFC8986]
)

Type K: IPv6 Addresses for link endpoints as Local, Remote pair for SRv6:

[RFC8986]

), such as a SID associated with the End.X

) associated with link or adjacency with Global IPv6

This type allows for identiﬁcation of an SRv6 SID corresponding to an Adjacency SID or
BGP Peer Adjacency SID (as deﬁned in
[RFC8402]
behavior (as deﬁned in
addresses. The headend is required to resolve the speciﬁed Local IPv6 Address to the node
originating it and then use the Remote IPv6 Address to identify the link adjacency being
referred to. The Local and Remote Address pair link descriptors follow semantics as
speciﬁed in
behavior (as deﬁned in
[RFC8986] MAY

Section 3.1.1 of [RFC8402]
 or other SRv6 speciﬁcations), and structure (as deﬁned in

[RFC8986]
 also be provided.

. The SR Algorithm (refer to

), the SRv6 SID

[RFC7752]

)

When the algorithm is not speciﬁed for the SID types above which optionally allow for it, the
headend
SHOULD
the default Shortest Path algorithm. The speciﬁcation of the algorithm enables the use of SIDs
speciﬁc to the IGP Flex Algorithm

 use the Strict Shortest Path algorithm if available and otherwise, it

[IGP-FLEX-ALGO]

 in SR Policy.

SHOULD

 use

For SID types C through K, a SID value
 also be optionally provided to the headend for
veriﬁcation purposes. Section 5.1 describes the resolution and veriﬁcation of the SIDs and
segment lists on the headend.

MAY

When building the MPLS label stack or the SRv6 SID list from the segment list, the node
instantiating the policy

 interpret the set of Segments as follows:

MUST

•

The ﬁrst Segment represents the topmost MPLS label or the ﬁrst SRv6 SID. It identiﬁes the
active segment the traﬃc will be directed toward along the explicit SR path.

•

The last segment represents the bottommost MPLS label or the last SRv6 SID the traﬃc will be
directed toward along the explicit SR path.

4.1.  Explicit Null

A Type A SID

MAY

 be any MPLS label, including special purpose labels.

For example, assuming that the desired traﬃc-engineered path from a headend 1 to an endpoint 4
can be expressed by the segment list <16002, 16003, 16004> where 16002, 16003, and 16004,
respectively, refer to the IPv4 Preﬁx SIDs bound to nodes 2, 3, and 4, then IPv6 traﬃc can be
traﬃc-engineered from nodes 1 to 4 via the previously described path using an SR Policy with
segment list <16002, 16003, 16004, 2> where the MPLS label value of 2 represents the "IPv6 Explicit
NULL Label".

The penultimate node before node 4 will pop 16004 and will forward the frame on its directly
connected interface to node 4.

The endpoint receives the traﬃc with the top label "2", which indicates that the payload is an IPv6
packet.

Filsﬁls, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9256

SR Policy Architecture

July 2022

When steering unlabeled IPv6 BGP destination traﬃc using an SR Policy composed of segment
list(s) based on IPv4 SIDs, the Explicit Null Label Policy is processed as speciﬁed in
POLICY]
SHOULD

. When an "IPv6 Explicit NULL label" is not present as the bottom label, the headend
 automatically impose one. Refer to Section 8 for more details.

[BGP-SR-

5.  Validity of a Candidate Path

5.1.  Explicit Candidate Path

An explicit candidate path is associated with a segment list or a set of segment lists.

An explicit candidate path is provisioned by the operator directly or via a controller.

The computation/logic that leads to the choice of the segment list is external to the SR Policy
headend. The SR Policy headend does not compute the segment list. The SR Policy headend only
conﬁrms its validity.

MAY

 consist of a single explicit segment list containing only an

An explicit candidate path
implicit-null label to indicate pop-and-forward behavior. The Binding SID (BSID) is popped and
the traﬃc is forwarded based on the inner label or an IP lookup in the case of unlabeled IP
packets. Such an explicit path can serve as a fallback or path of last resort for traﬃc being steered
into an SR Policy using its BSID (refer to Section 8.3).

A segment list of an explicit candidate path
true:

MUST

 be declared invalid when any of the following is

•

It is empty.

•

Its weight is 0.

•

It comprises a mix of SR-MPLS and SRv6 segment types.

•

The headend is unable to perform path resolution for the ﬁrst SID into one or more outgoing
interface(s) and next-hop(s).

•

The headend is unable to perform SID resolution for any non-ﬁrst SID of type C through K into
an MPLS label or an SRv6 SID.

•

The headend veriﬁcation fails for any SID for which veriﬁcation has been explicitly
requested.

"Unable to perform path resolution" means that the headend has no path to the SID in its SR
database.

SID veriﬁcation is performed when the headend is explicitly requested to verify SID(s) by the
controller via the signaling protocol used. Implementations
option to enable veriﬁcation on a global or per-policy or per-candidate path basis.

 provide a local conﬁguration

MAY

"Veriﬁcation fails" for a SID means any of the following:

•

The headend is unable to ﬁnd the SID in its SR-DB

Filsﬁls, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9256

SR Policy Architecture

July 2022

•

The headend detects a mismatch between the SID value provided and the SID value resolved
by context provided for SIDs of type C through K in its SR-DB.

•

The headend is unable to perform SID resolution for any non-ﬁrst SID of type C through K into
an MPLS label or an SRv6 SID.

In multi-domain deployments, it is expected that the headend may be unable to verify the
reachability of the SIDs in remote domains. Types A or B
reachability cannot be veriﬁed. Note that the ﬁrst SID
type.

 be used for the SIDs for which the
 always be reachable regardless of its

MUST

MUST

Additionally, a segment list

MAY

 be declared invalid when both of the conditions below are met :

•

Its last segment is not a Preﬁx SID (including BGP Peer Node-SID) advertised by the node
speciﬁed as the endpoint of the corresponding SR Policy.

•

Its last segment is not an Adjacency SID (including BGP Peer Adjacency SID) of any of the
links present on neighbor nodes and that terminate on the node speciﬁed as the endpoint of
the corresponding SR Policy.

An explicit candidate path is invalid as soon as it has no valid segment list.

Additionally, an explicit candidate path
lists (valid or invalid) are using segment types of diﬀerent SR data planes.

MAY

 be declared invalid when its constituent segment

5.2.  Dynamic Candidate Path

A dynamic candidate path is speciﬁed as an optimization objective and a set of constraints.

The headend of the policy leverages its SR database to compute a segment list ("solution segment
list") that solves this optimization problem for either the SR-MPLS or the SRv6 data plane as
speciﬁed.

The headend re-computes the solution segment list any time the inputs to the problem change
(e.g., topology changes).

When the local computation is not possible (e.g., a policy's tail end is outside the topology known
to the headend) or not desired, the headend may rely on an external entity. For example, a path
computation request may be sent to a PCE supporting PCEP extensions speciﬁed in

[RFC8664]

.

If no solution is found to the optimization objective and constraints, then the dynamic candidate
path

 be declared invalid.

MUST

[SR-POLICY-CONSID]
considered by a dynamic candidate path. It illustrates some of the desirable properties of the
computation of the solution segment list.

 discusses some of the optimization objectives and constraints that may be

5.3.  Composite Candidate Path

A composite candidate path is speciﬁed as a group of its constituent SR Policies.

Filsﬁls, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9256

SR Policy Architecture

July 2022

A composite candidate path is valid when it has at least one valid constituent SR Policy.

6.  Binding SID

The Binding SID (BSID) is fundamental to Segment Routing
network opacity, and service independence.
beneﬁts. This section describes the association of BSID with an SR Policy.

[SR-POLICY-CONSID]

[RFC8402]

. It provides scaling,
 illustrates some of these

6.1.  BSID of a Candidate Path

Each candidate path

MAY

 be deﬁned with a BSID.

Candidate paths of the same SR Policy

SHOULD

 have the same BSID.

Candidate paths of diﬀerent SR Policies

MUST NOT

 have the same BSID.

6.2.  BSID of an SR Policy

The BSID of an SR Policy is the BSID of its active candidate path.

When the active candidate path has a speciﬁed BSID, the SR Policy uses that BSID if this value
(label in MPLS, IPv6 address in SRv6) is available. A BSID is available when its value is not
associated with any other usage, e.g., a label used by some other MPLS forwarding entry or an
SRv6 SID used in some other context (such as to another segment, to another SR Policy, or that it is
outside the range of SRv6 Locators).

In the case of SR-MPLS, SRv6 BSIDs (e.g., with the behavior End.BM
with the SR Policy in addition to the MPLS BSID. In the case of SRv6, multiple SRv6 BSIDs (e.g., with
diﬀerent behaviors like End.B6.Encaps and End.B6.Encaps.Red
 be associated with
the SR Policy.

[RFC8986] MAY

[RFC8986] MAY

 be associated

)

)

Optionally, instead of only checking that the BSID of the active path is available, a headend
MAY
check that it is available within the given SID range i.e., Segment Routing Local Block (SRLB) as
speciﬁed in

[RFC8402]

.

When the speciﬁed BSID is not available (optionally is not in the SRLB), an alert message
generated via mechanisms like syslog.

MUST

 be

In the cases (as described above) where SR Policy does not have a BSID available, the SR Policy
 use an available SID
MAY
outside the SRLB.

 dynamically bind a BSID to itself. Dynamically bound BSIDs

SHOULD

Assuming that at time t the BSID of the SR Policy is B1, if at time t+dt a diﬀerent candidate path
becomes active and this new active path does not have a speciﬁed BSID or its BSID is speciﬁed but
is not available (e.g., it is in use by something else), then the SR Policy
 keep the previous BSID
B1.

MAY

Filsﬁls, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9256

SR Policy Architecture

July 2022

The association of an SR Policy with a BSID thus
upon active path change). Hence, the BSID
Policy.

MAY

 change over the life of the SR Policy (e.g.,
 be used as an identiﬁcation of an SR

SHOULD NOT

6.2.1.  Frequent Use Case : Unspeciﬁed BSID

All the candidate paths of the same SR Policy can have an unspeciﬁed BSID.

In such a case, a BSID
candidate path is received. That BSID is kept through the life of the SR Policy and across changes
of the active candidate path.

 be dynamically bound to the SR Policy as soon as the ﬁrst valid

MAY

6.2.2.  Frequent Use Case: All Speciﬁed to the Same BSID

All the paths of the SR Policy can have the same speciﬁed BSID.

6.2.3.  Speciﬁed-BSID-only

An implementation
on the headend for all SR Policies or individual SR Policies. Further, this restrictive behavior
also be signaled on a per-SR-Policy basis to the headend.

 support the conﬁguration of the Speciﬁed-BSID-only restrictive behavior

MAY

MAY

When this restrictive behavior is enabled, if the candidate path has an unspeciﬁed BSID or if the
speciﬁed BSID is not available when the candidate path becomes active, then no BSID is bound to
it and the candidate path is considered invalid. An alert
mechanisms like syslog. Other candidate paths
candidate path.

 then be evaluated for becoming the active

 be triggered for this error via

MUST

MUST

6.3.  Forwarding Plane

A valid SR Policy results in the installation of a BSID-keyed entry in the forwarding plane with the
action of steering the packets matching this entry to the selected path of the SR Policy.

If the Speciﬁed-BSID-only restrictive behavior is enabled and the BSID of the active path is not
available (optionally not in the SRLB), then the SR Policy does not install any entry indexed by a
BSID in the forwarding plane.

6.4.  Non-SR Usage of Binding SID

MAY

 choose to associate a Binding SID with any type of interface (e.g., a layer

An implementation
3 termination of an Optical Circuit) or a tunnel (e.g., IP tunnel, GRE tunnel, IP/UDP tunnel, MPLS
RSVP-TE tunnel, etc). This enables the use of other non-SR-enabled interfaces and tunnels as
segments in an SR Policy segment list without the need of forming routing protocol adjacencies
over them.

The details of this kind of usage are beyond the scope of this document. A speciﬁc packet-optical
integration use case is described in

[POI-SR]

.

Filsﬁls, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9256

SR Policy Architecture

July 2022

7.  SR Policy State

The SR Policy state is maintained on the headend to represent the state of the policy and its
candidate paths. This is to provide an accurate representation of whether the SR Policy is being
instantiated in the forwarding plane and which of its candidate paths and segment list(s) are
active. The SR Policy state
not active due to validation errors or not being preferred. The operational state information
reported for SR Policies are speciﬁed in

 also reﬂect the reason when a policy and/or its candidate path is

[SR-POLICY-YANG]

MUST

.

The SR Policy state can be reported by the headend node via BGP-LS
[RFC8231] [PCEP-BSID-LABEL]

.

[BGP-LS-TE-POLICY]

 or PCEP

SR Policy state on the headend also includes traﬃc accounting information for the ﬂows being
steered via the policies. The details of the SR Policy accounting are beyond the scope of this
document. The aspects related to the SR traﬃc counters and their usage in the broader context of
traﬃc accounting in an SR network are covered in
ACCOUNTING]

[SR-TRAFFIC-COUNTERS]

, respectively.

[SR-TRAFFIC-

 and

Implementations
mechanisms like command-line interface (CLI) or NETCONF.

MAY

 support an administrative state to control locally provisioned policies via

8.  Steering into an SR Policy

A headend can steer a packet ﬂow into a valid SR Policy in various ways:

•

Incoming packets have an active SID matching a local BSID at the headend.

•

Per-Destination Steering: incoming packets match a BGP/Service route, which recurses on an
SR Policy.

•

Per-Flow Steering: incoming packets match or recurse on a forwarding array of which some
of the entries are SR Policies.

•

Policy-Based Steering: incoming packets match a routing policy that directs them on an SR
Policy.

8.1.  Validity of an SR Policy

An SR Policy is invalid when all its candidate paths are invalid as described in Sections 2.10 and 5.

By default, upon transitioning to the invalid state,

•

an SR Policy and its BSID are removed from the forwarding plane.

•

any steering of a service (Pseudowire (PW)), destination (BGP-VPN), ﬂow or packet on the
related SR Policy is disabled and the related service, destination, ﬂow, or packet is routed per
the classic forwarding table (e.g., longest match to the destination or the recursing next-hop).

Filsﬁls, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9256

SR Policy Architecture

July 2022

8.2.  Drop-upon-Invalid SR Policy

An SR Policy

MAY

 be enabled for the Drop-Upon-Invalid behavior. This would entail the following:

•

an invalid SR Policy and its BSID is kept in the forwarding plane with an action to drop.

•

any steering of a service (PW), destination (BGP-VPN), ﬂow, or packet on the related SR Policy
is maintained with the action to drop all of this traﬃc.

The Drop-Upon-Invalid behavior has been deployed in use cases where the operator wants some
PW to only be transported on a path with speciﬁc constraints. When these constraints are no
longer met, the operator wants the PW traﬃc to be dropped. Speciﬁcally, the operator does not
want the PW to be routed according to the IGP shortest path to the PW endpoint.

8.3.  Incoming Active SID is a BSID

Let us assume that headend H has a valid SR Policy P of segment list <S1, S2, S3> and BSID B.

In the case of SR-MPLS, when H receives a packet K with label stack <B, L2, L3>, H pops B and
pushes <S1, S2, S3> and forwards the resulting packet according to SID S1.

"Forwards the resulting packet according to SID S1" means: If S1 is an Adj-SID or a
PHP-enabled preﬁx SID advertised by a neighbor, H sends the resulting packet with
label stack <S2, S3, L2, L3> on the outgoing interface associated with S1; Else, H sends
the resulting packet with label stack <S1, S2, S3, L2, L3> along the path of S1.

In the case of SRv6, the processing is similar and follows the SR Policy headend behaviors as
speciﬁed in

Section 5 of [RFC8986]

.

H has steered the packet into the SR Policy P.

H did not have to classify the packet. The classiﬁcation was done by a node upstream of H (e.g.,
the source of the packet or an intermediate ingress edge node of the SR domain) and the result of
this classiﬁcation was eﬃciently encoded in the packet header as a BSID.

This is another key beneﬁt of the segment routing in general and the binding SID in particular:
the ability to encode a classiﬁcation and the resulting steering in the packet header to better scale
and simplify intermediate aggregation nodes.

When Drop-Upon-Invalid (refer to Section 8.2) is not in use, for an invalid SR Policy P, its BSID B is
not in the forwarding plane and hence, the packet K is dropped by H.

8.4.  Per-Destination Steering

This section describes how a headend applies steering of ﬂows corresponding to BGP routes over
SR Policy using the Color Extended community

[RFC9012]

.

Filsﬁls, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9256

SR Policy Architecture

July 2022

In the case of SR-MPLS, let us assume that headend H:

•

learns a BGP route R/r via next-hop N, Color Extended community C, and VPN label V.

•

has a valid SR Policy P to (color = C, endpoint = N) of segment list <S1, S2, S3> and BSID B.

•

has a BGP policy that matches on the Color Extended community C and allows its usage as
SLA steering information.

If all these conditions are met, H installs R/r in RIB/FIB with next-hop = SR Policy P of BSID B
instead of via N.

Indeed, H's local BGP policy and the received BGP route indicate that the headend should
associate R/r with an SR Policy path to endpoint N with the SLA associated with color C. The
headend, therefore, installs the BGP route on that policy.

This can be implemented by using the BSID as a generalized next-hop and installing the BGP
route on that generalized next-hop.

When H receives a packet K with a destination matching R/r, H pushes the label stack <S1, S2, S3,
V> and sends the resulting packet along the path to S1.

Note that any SID associated with the BGP route is inserted after the segment list of the SR Policy
(i.e., <S1, S2, S3, V>).

In the case of SRv6, the processing is similar and follows the SR Policy headend behaviors as
speciﬁed in

Section 5 of [RFC8986]

.

The same behavior applies to any type of service route: any AFI/SAFI of BGP
Locator/ID Separation Protocol (LISP)

 for both IPv4/IPv6.

[RFC6830]

[RFC4760]

 or the

In a BGP multi-path scenario, the BGP route
those that are steered over SR Policies and others resolved via the normal BGP next-hop
resolution. Implementations
MAY
forms of local policy to determine the paths that are selected.

 provide options to prefer one type over the other or other

 be resolved over a mix of paths that include

MAY

8.4.1.  Multiple Colors

When a BGP route has multiple Color Extended communities each with a valid SR Policy, the BGP
process installs the route on the SR Policy giving preference to the Color Extended community
with the highest numerical value.

Let us assume that headend H:

•

learns a BGP route R/r via next-hop N, Color Extended communities C1 and C2.

•

has a valid SR Policy P1 to (color = C1, endpoint = N) of segment list <S1, S2, S3> and BSID B1.

•

has a valid SR Policy P2 to (color = C2, endpoint = N) of segment list <S4, S5, S6> and BSID B2.

•

has a BGP policy that matches the Color Extended communities C1 and C2 and allows their
usage as SLA steering information

Filsﬁls, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9256

SR Policy Architecture

July 2022

If all these conditions are met, H installs R/r in RIB/FIB with next-hop = SR Policy P2 of BSID=B2
(instead of N) because C2 > C1.

When the SR Policy with a speciﬁc color is not instantiated or in the down/inactive state, the SR
Policy with the next highest numerical value of color is considered.

8.5.  Recursion on an On-Demand Dynamic BSID

In the previous section, it was assumed that H had a pre-established "explicit" SR Policy (color C,
endpoint N).

In this section, independent of the a priori existence of any explicit candidate path of the SR
Policy (C, N), it is to be noted that the BGP process at headend node H triggers the instantiation of
a dynamic candidate path for the SR Policy (C, N) as soon as:

•

the BGP process learns of a route R/r via N and with Color Extended community C.

•

a local policy at node H authorizes the on-demand SR Policy path instantiation and maps the
color to a dynamic SR Policy path optimization template.

8.5.1.  Multiple Colors

When a BGP route R/r via N has multiple Color Extended communities Ci (with i=1 ... n), an
individual on-demand SR Policy dynamic path request (color Ci, endpoint N) is triggered for each
color Ci. The SR Policy that is used for steering is then determined as described in Section 8.4.1.

8.6.  Per-Flow Steering

This section provides an example of how a headend might apply per-ﬂow steering in practice.

Let us assume that headend H:

•

has a valid SR Policy P1 to (color = C1, endpoint = N) of segment list <S1, S2, S3> and BSID B1.

•

has a valid SR Policy P2 to (color = C2, endpoint = N) of segment list <S4, S5, S6> and BSID B2.

•

is conﬁgured to instantiate an array of paths to N where the entry 0 is the IGP path to N, color
C1 is the ﬁrst entry, and color C2 is the second entry. The index into the array is called a
Forwarding Class (FC). The index can have values 0 to 7, especially when derived from the
MPLS TC bits

[RFC5462]

.

•

is conﬁgured to match ﬂows in its ingress interfaces (upon any ﬁeld such as Ethernet
destination/source/VLAN/TOS or IP destination/source/Diﬀerentiated Services Code Point
(DSCP), or transport ports etc.), and color them with an internal per-packet forwarding-class
variable (0, 1, or 2 in this example).

If all these conditions are met, H installs in RIB/FIB:

•

N via recursion on an array A (instead of the immediate outgoing link associated with the IGP
shortest path to N).

•

Entry A(0) set to the immediate outgoing link of the IGP shortest path to N.

•

Entry A(1) set to SR Policy P1 of BSID=B1.

Filsﬁls, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9256

SR Policy Architecture

July 2022

•

Entry A(2) set to SR Policy P2 of BSID=B2.

H receives three packets K, K1, and K2 on its incoming interface. These three packets either
longest match on N or more likely on a BGP/service route that recurses on N. H colors these 3
packets respectively with forwarding-class 0, 1, and 2.

As a result, for SR-MPLS:

•

H forwards K along the shortest path to N (i.e., pushes the Preﬁx-SID of N).

•

H pushes <S1, S2, S3> on packet K1 and forwards the resulting frame along the shortest path to
S1.

•

H pushes <S4, S5, S6> on packet K2 and forwards the resulting frame along the shortest path to
S4.

For SRv6, the processing is similar and the segment lists of the individual SR Policies P1 and P2 are
Section 5 of
enforced for packets K1 and K2 using the SR Policy headend behaviors as speciﬁed in
[RFC8986]

.

If the local conﬁguration does not specify any explicit forwarding information for an entry of the
array, then this entry is ﬁlled with the same information as entry 0 (i.e., the IGP shortest path).

If the SR Policy mapped to an entry of the array becomes invalid, then this entry is ﬁlled with the
same information as entry 0. When all the array entries have the same information as entry 0,
the forwarding entry for N is updated to bypass the array and point directly to its outgoing
interface and next-hop.

The array index values (e.g., 0, 1, and 2) and the notion of forwarding class are implementation
speciﬁc and only meant to describe the desired behavior. The same can be realized by other
mechanisms.

This realizes per-ﬂow steering: diﬀerent ﬂows bound to the same BGP endpoint are steered on
diﬀerent IGP or SR Policy paths.

A headend
preﬁxes (e.g., speciﬁc IGP or BGP preﬁxes).

MAY

 support options to apply per-ﬂow steering only for traﬃc matching speciﬁc

8.7.  Policy-Based Routing

Finally, headend H
and steers a speciﬁed packet on an SR Policy. This includes the use of mechanisms like IGP
Shortcut for automatic routing of IGP preﬁxes over SR Policies intended for such purpose.

 be conﬁgured with a local routing policy that overrides any BGP/IGP path

MAY

8.8.  Optional Steering Modes for BGP Destinations

8.8.1.  Color-Only BGP Destination Steering

In the previous section, it is seen that the steering on an SR Policy is governed by the matching of
the BGP route's next-hop N and the authorized Color Extended community C with an SR Policy
deﬁned by the tuple (N, C).

Filsﬁls, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9256

SR Policy Architecture

July 2022

This is the most likely form of BGP destination steering and the one recommended for most use
cases.

This section deﬁnes an alternative steering mechanism based only on the Color Extended
community.

Three types of steering modes are deﬁned.

For the default, Type 0, the BGP destination is steered as follows:

   IF there is a valid SR Policy (N, C) where N is the IPv4 or IPv6
           endpoint address and C is a color;
       Steer into SR Policy (N, C);
   ELSE;
       Steer on the IGP path to the next-hop N.

This is the classic case described in this document previously and what is recommended in most
scenarios.

For Type 1, the BGP destination is steered as follows:

   IF there is a valid SR Policy (N, C) where N is the IPv4 or IPv6
           endpoint address and C is a color;
       Steer into SR Policy (N, C);
   ELSE IF there is a valid SR Policy (null endpoint, C) of the
           same address-family of N;
       Steer into SR Policy (null endpoint, C);
   ELSE IF there is any valid SR Policy
           (any address-family null endpoint, C);
       Steer into SR Policy (any null endpoint, C);
   ELSE;
       Steer on the IGP path to the next-hop N.

For Type 2, the BGP destination is steered as follows:

Filsﬁls, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9256

SR Policy Architecture

July 2022

   IF there is a valid SR Policy (N, C) where N is an IPv4 or IPv6
           endpoint address and C is a color;
       Steer into SR Policy (N, C);
   ELSE IF there is a valid SR Policy (null endpoint, C)
           of the same address-family of N;
       Steer into SR Policy (null endpoint, C);
   ELSE IF there is any valid SR Policy
           (any address-family null endpoint, C);
       Steer into SR Policy (any null endpoint, C);
   ELSE IF there is any valid SR Policy (any endpoint, C)
           of the same address-family of N;
       Steer into SR Policy (any endpoint, C);
   ELSE IF there is any valid SR Policy
           (any address-family endpoint, C);
       Steer into SR Policy (any address-family endpoint, C);
   ELSE;
       Steer on the IGP path to the next-hop N.

The null endpoint is 0.0.0.0 for IPv4 and :: for IPv6 (all bits set to the 0 value).

Please refer to
implementation of these mechanisms.

[BGP-SR-POLICY]

 for the updates to the BGP Color Extended community for the

8.8.2.  Multiple Colors and CO ﬂags

The steering preference is ﬁrst based on the highest Color Extended community value and then
Color-Only steering type for the color. Assuming a Preﬁx via (NH, C1(CO=01), C2(CO=01)); C1>C2.
The steering preference order is:

•

SR Policy (NH, C1).

•

SR Policy (null, C1).

•

SR Policy (NH, C2).

•

SR Policy (null, C2).

•

IGP to NH.

8.8.3.  Drop-upon-Invalid

This document deﬁned earlier that when all the following conditions are met, H installs R/r in
RIB/FIB with next-hop = SR Policy P of BSID B instead of via N.

•

H learns a BGP route R/r via next-hop N, Color Extended community C.

•

H has a valid SR Policy P to (color = C, endpoint = N) of segment list <S1, S2, S3> and BSID B.

•

H has a BGP policy that matches the Color Extended community C and allows its usage as SLA
steering information.

This behavior is extended by noting that the BGP Policy may require the BGP steering to always
stay on the SR Policy whatever its validity.

This is the "drop-upon-invalid" option described in Section 8.2 applied to BGP-based steering.

Filsﬁls, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9256

SR Policy Architecture

July 2022

9.  Recovering from Network Failures

9.1.  Leveraging TI-LFA Local Protection of the Constituent IGP Segments

In any topology, Topology-Independent Loop-Free Alternate (TI-LFA)
msec local protection technique for IGP SIDs. The backup path is computed on a per-IGP-SID basis
along the post-convergence path.

 provides a 50

[SR-TI-LFA]

In a network that has deployed TI-LFA, an SR Policy built on the basis of TI-LFA protected IGP
segments leverages the local protection of the constituent segments. Since TI-LFA protection is
based on IGP computation, there are cases where the path used during the fast-reroute time
window may not meet the exact constraints of the SR Policy.

In a network that has deployed TI-LFA, an SR Policy instantiated only with non-protected Adj SIDs
does not beneﬁt from any local protection.

9.2.  Using an SR Policy to Locally Protect a Link

     1----2-----6----7
     |    |     |    |
     4----3-----9----8

Figure 1: Local Protection Using SR Policy

An SR Policy can be instantiated at node 2 to protect link 2-to-6. A typical explicit segment list
would be <3, 9, 6>.

A typical use case occurs for links outside an IGP domain: e.g., 1, 2, 3, and 4 are part of IGP/SR sub-
domain 1 while 6, 7, 8, and 9 are part of IGP/SR sub-domain 2. In such a case, links 2-to-6 and 3to9
cannot beneﬁt from TI-LFA automated local protection. The SR Policy with segment list <3, 9, 6>
on node 2 can be locally conﬁgured to be a fast-reroute backup path for the link 2-to-6.

9.3.  Using a Candidate Path for Path Protection

An SR Policy allows for multiple candidate paths, of which at any point in time there is a single
active candidate path that is provisioned in the forwarding plane and used for traﬃc steering.
However, another (lower preference) candidate path
speciﬁc or all (active) candidate path(s). The following options are possible:

 be designated as the backup for a

MAY

•

A pair of disjoint candidate paths are provisioned with one of them as primary and the other
identiﬁed as its backup.

•

A speciﬁc candidate path is provisioned as the backup for any (active) candidate path.

•

The headend picks the next (lower) preference valid candidate path as the backup for the
active candidate path.

Filsﬁls, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9256

SR Policy Architecture

July 2022

MAY

 compute a priori and validate such backup candidate paths as well as provision

The headend
them into the forwarding plane as a backup for the active path. The backup candidate path may
be dynamically computed or explicitly provisioned in such a way that they provide the most
appropriate alternative for the active candidate path. A fast-reroute mechanism
 then be
used to trigger sub-50 msec switchover from the active to the backup candidate path in the
forwarding plane. Mechanisms like Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD)
fast detection of such failures.

 be used for

MAY

MAY

10.  Security Considerations

This document speciﬁes in detail the SR Policy construct introduced in
instantiation on a router supporting SR along with descriptions of mechanisms for the steering of
traﬃc ﬂows over it. Therefore, the security considerations of
consideration related to SR-MPLS

 apply. The security
 also apply.

[RFC8754] [RFC8986]

 and SRv6

[RFC8402]

[RFC8660]

[RFC8402]

 and its

The endpoint of the SR Policy, other than in the case of a null endpoint, uniquely identiﬁes the tail-
end node of the segment routed path. If an address that is used as an endpoint for an SR Policy is
advertised by more than one node due to a misconﬁguration or spooﬁng and the same is
advertised via an IGP, the traﬃc steered over the SR Policy may end up getting diverted to an
undesired node resulting in misrouting. Mechanisms for detection of duplicate preﬁx
advertisement can be used to identify and correct such scenarios. The details of these
mechanisms are outside the scope of this document.

Section 8 speciﬁes mechanisms for the steering of traﬃc ﬂows corresponding to BGP routes over
SR Policies matching the color value signaled via the BGP Color Extended Community attached
with the BGP routes. Misconﬁguration or error in setting of the Color Extended Community with
the BGP routes can result in the forwarding of packets for those routes along undesired paths.

MAY

 be signaled along with

In Sections 2.1 and 2.6, the document mentions that a symbolic name
a candidate path for the SR Policy and for the SR Policy Candidate Path, respectively. While the
value of symbolic names for display clarity is indisputable, as with any unrestricted free-form
text received from external parties, there can be no absolute assurance that the information the
text purports to show is accurate or even truthful. For this reason, users of implementations that
display such information would be well advised not to rely on it without question and to use the
speciﬁc identiﬁers of the SR Policy and SR Policy Candidate Path for validation. Furthermore,
implementations that display such information might wish to display it in such a fashion as to
diﬀerentiate it from known-good information. (Such display conventions are inherently
implementation speciﬁc; one example might be use of a distinguished text color or style for
information that should be treated with caution.)

This document does not deﬁne any new protocol extensions and does not introduce any further
security considerations.

Filsﬁls, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9256

SR Policy Architecture

July 2022

11.  Manageability Considerations

This document speciﬁes in detail the SR Policy construct introduced in
instantiation on a router supporting SR along with descriptions of mechanisms for the steering of
traﬃc ﬂows over it. Therefore, the manageability considerations of

[RFC8402]

[RFC8402]

 and its

 apply.

A YANG model for the conﬁguration and operation of SR Policy has been deﬁned in
YANG]

.

[SR-POLICY-

12.  IANA Considerations

[RFC8986]

IANA has created a new subregistry called "Segment Types" under the "Segment Routing" registry
that was created by
segment types (as speciﬁed in Section 4) that may be used within a segment list of an SR Policy.
The alphabetical identiﬁers run from A to Z and may be extended on exhaustion with the
identiﬁers AA to AZ, BA to BZ, and so on, through ZZ. This subregistry follows the Speciﬁcation
Required allocation policy as speciﬁed in
[RFC8126]

. This subregistry maintains the alphabetic identiﬁers for the

.

The initial registrations for this subregistry are as follows:

Value Description

A

B

C

D

E

F

G

SR-MPLS Label

SRv6 SID

IPv4 Preﬁx with optional SR Algorithm

IPv6 Global Preﬁx with optional SR Algorithm for SR-MPLS

IPv4 Preﬁx with Local Interface ID

IPv4 Addresses for link endpoints as Local, Remote pair

IPv6 Preﬁx and Interface ID for link endpoints as Local, Remote pair
for SR-MPLS

Reference

RFC 9256

RFC 9256

RFC 9256

RFC 9256

RFC 9256

RFC 9256

RFC 9256

H

IPv6 Addresses for link endpoints as Local, Remote pair for SR-MPLS

RFC 9256

I

J

IPv6 Global Preﬁx with optional SR Algorithm for SRv6

IPv6 Preﬁx and Interface ID for link endpoints as Local, Remote pair
for SRv6

RFC 9256

RFC 9256

K

IPv6 Addresses for link endpoints as Local, Remote pair for SRv6

RFC 9256

Table 2: Segment Types

Filsﬁls, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 9256

SR Policy Architecture

July 2022

12.1.  Guidance for Designated Experts

[RFC8126]

 and to verify that the document is permanently and

The Designated Expert (DE) is expected to ascertain the existence of suitable documentation (a
speciﬁcation) as described in
publicly available. The DE is also expected to check the clarity of purpose and use of the requested
assignment. Additionally, the DE must verify that any request for one of these assignments has
been made available for review and comment within the IETF: the DE will post the request to the
SPRING Working Group mailing list (or a successor mailing list designated by the IESG). If the
request comes from within the IETF, it should be documented in an Internet-Draft. Lastly, the DE
must ensure that any other request for a code point does not conﬂict with work that is active or
already published within the IETF.

13.  References

13.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC7752]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8402]

[RFC8660]

[RFC8754]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
,
rfc2119>
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

Gredler, H., Ed. Medved, J. Previdi, S. Farrel, A.
,
Distribution of Link-State and Traﬃc Engineering (TE) Information Using BGP"
,
RFC 7752 DOI 10.17487/RFC7752
.
rfc7752>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

S. Ray "North-Bound

, March 2016,

, and

,

,

,

,
Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

, June

,
,
Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
.
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

, and
Filsﬁls, C., Ed. Previdi, S., Ed. Ginsberg, L. Decraene, B. Litkowski, S.
Shakir "Segment Routing Architecture" RFC 8402 DOI 10.17487/RFC8402
2018,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8402>

,

,

,

,

,

,

R.
, July

,

R.
Bashandy, A., Ed. Filsﬁls, C., Ed. Previdi, S. Decraene, B. Litkowski, S.
,
Shakir "Segment Routing with the MPLS Data Plane" RFC 8660 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8660

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8660>

, December 2019,

, and

,

,

,

,

,

,

Filsﬁls, C., Ed. Dukes, D., Ed. Previdi, S. Leddy, J. Matsushima, S.
"IPv6 Segment Routing Header (SRH)" RFC 8754 DOI 10.17487/RFC8754
2020,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8754>

, and

,
,

,
,

,

,
D. Voyer
, March

Filsﬁls, et al.

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 9256

SR Policy Architecture

July 2022

[RFC8986]

[RFC9012]

,

Z. Li
Filsﬁls, C., Ed. Camarillo, P., Ed. Leddy, J. Voyer, D. Matsushima, S.
,
"Segment Routing over IPv6 (SRv6) Network Programming" RFC 8986 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8986>
10.17487/RFC8986
.

, February 2021,

, and
,

,

,

,

,

,

Patel, K. Van de Velde, G. Sangli, S.
Encapsulation Attribute" RFC 9012 DOI 10.17487/RFC9012
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9012>

, and
,

,
,

,

J. Scudder "The BGP Tunnel

, April 2021,

<https://

13.2.  Informative References

[BGP-LS-TE-POLICY]

Previdi, S. Talaulikar, K., Ed. Dong, J., Ed. Chen, M. Gredler, H.

,

,

,

,

, and

J.

,

Tantsura "Distribution of Traﬃc Engineering (TE) Policies and State using BGP-
,
LS" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-idr-te-lsp-distribution-17
2022,

.
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-idr-te-lsp-distribution-17>

, April

,

[BGP-SR-POLICY]

Previdi, S. Filsﬁls, C. Talaulikar, K., Ed. Mattes, P. Jain, D.

,

,

,

,

S. Lin

,

"Advertising Segment Routing Policies in BGP" Work in Progress Internet-Draft,
draft-ietf-idr-segment-routing-te-policy-18
.
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-idr-segment-routing-te-policy-18>

, June 2022,

<https://

,

, and
,

[IGP-FLEX-ALGO]

,
Psenak, P., Ed. Hegde, S. Filsﬁls, C. Talaulikar, K.

,

,

, and

A. Gulko "IGP Flexible

,

Algorithm" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-lsr-ﬂex-algo-20
.
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-lsr-ﬂex-algo-20>

,

,

, May 2022,

[PCEP-BSID-LABEL]

,
Sivabalan, S. Filsﬁls, C. Tantsura, J. Previdi, S.

,

,

, and

,
C. Li, Ed. "Carrying

,
Binding Label/Segment Identiﬁer (SID) in PCE-based Networks." Work in
, March 2022,
Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-pce-binding-label-sid-15
.
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-pce-binding-label-sid-15>

,

<https://

[PCEP-SR-POLICY-CP]

,

Koldychev, M. Sivabalan, S. Barth, C. Peng, S.

,
extension to support Segment Routing Policy Candidate Paths" Work in
Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-pce-segment-routing-policy-cp-07
2022,
.
policy-cp-07>

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-pce-segment-routing-

H. Bidgoli "PCEP

, and

, 21 April

,

,

,

,

[POI-SR]

[RFC0020]

[RFC1195]

[RFC2328]

,

,

, and
Anand, M. Bardhan, S. Subrahmaniam, R. Tantsura, J. Mukhopadhyaya, U.
,
C. Filsﬁls "Packet-Optical Integration in Segment Routing" Work in Progress
Internet-Draft, draft-anand-spring-poi-sr-08
.
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-anand-spring-poi-sr-08>

,
<https://

, 29 July 2019,

,

,

,

,
Cerf, V. "ASCII format for network interchange" STD 80 RFC 20 DOI 10.17487/
RFC0020

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc20>

, October 1969,

,

,

,

Callon, R. "Use of OSI IS-IS for routing in TCP/IP and dual environments" RFC
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
1195 DOI 10.17487/RFC1195
.
rfc1195>

, December 1990,

,

,

,
,
Moy, J. "OSPF Version 2" STD 54 RFC 2328 DOI 10.17487/RFC2328
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2328>

,

, April 1998,

Filsﬁls, et al.

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 9256

SR Policy Architecture

July 2022

[RFC3630]

[RFC4760]

[RFC5305]

[RFC5307]

[RFC5329]

[RFC5340]

[RFC5462]

[RFC6830]

[RFC7471]

[RFC8231]

[RFC8476]

[RFC8491]

[RFC8570]

,

Katz, D. Kompella, K.
Version 2" RFC 3630 DOI 10.17487/RFC3630
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc3630>
.

, and

,

D. Yeung "Traﬃc Engineering (TE) Extensions to OSPF

, September 2003,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Bates, T. Chandra, R. Katz, D.
BGP-4" RFC 4760 DOI 10.17487/RFC4760
editor.org/info/rfc4760>
.

, and

,

,

,

Y. Rekhter "Multiprotocol Extensions for

,

, January 2007,

<https://www.rfc-

 and

Li, T.
,
10.17487/RFC5305
, October 2008,

H. Smit "IS-IS Extensions for Traﬃc Engineering" RFC 5305 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5305>
.

,

,

 and

Kompella, K., Ed.
,
Multi-Protocol Label Switching (GMPLS)" RFC 5307 DOI 10.17487/RFC5307
,
October 2008,

Y. Rekhter, Ed. "IS-IS Extensions in Support of Generalized
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5307>
.

,

,

Ishiguro, K. Manral, V. Davey, A.
Extensions to OSPF Version 3" RFC 5329 DOI 10.17487/RFC5329
,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5329>
.

, and

,

,

A. Lindem, Ed. "Traﬃc Engineering

, September 2008,

Coltun, R. Ferguson, D. Moy, J.
10.17487/RFC5340

,
, July 2008,

,

, and

A. Lindem "OSPF for IPv6" RFC 5340 DOI

,

,

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5340>
.

 and

Andersson, L.
Entry: "EXP" Field Renamed to "Traﬃc Class" Field" RFC 5462 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5462

R. Asati "Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) Label Stack

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5462>
.

, February 2009,

,

,

,

,

Farinacci, D. Fuller, V. Meyer, D.
,
Protocol (LISP)" RFC 6830 DOI 10.17487/RFC6830
.
editor.org/info/rfc6830>

, and

,

,

,

D. Lewis "The Locator/ID Separation
, January 2013,

<https://www.rfc-

,

S. Previdi "OSPF Traﬃc
Giacalone, S. Ward, D. Drake, J. Atlas, A.
,
Engineering (TE) Metric Extensions" RFC 7471 DOI 10.17487/RFC7471
2015,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7471>

, and

,

,

,

,

, March

,

Crabbe, E. Minei, I. Medved, J.
Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for Stateful PCE" RFC 8231 DOI
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8231>
10.17487/RFC8231

R. Varga "Path Computation Element
,

, September 2017,

, and

,

,

,

,

Tantsura, J. Chunduri, U. Aldrin, S.
Depth (MSD) Using OSPF" RFC 8476 DOI 10.17487/RFC8476
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8476>

P. Psenak "Signaling Maximum SID
, December 2018,

, and
,

,
,

,

,

Tantsura, J. Chunduri, U. Aldrin, S.
Depth (MSD) Using IS-IS" RFC 8491 DOI 10.17487/RFC8491
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8491>

, and
,

,
,

,

L. Ginsberg "Signaling Maximum SID

, November 2018,

,

,
,
Q. Wu "IS-IS
Ginsberg, L., Ed. Previdi, S., Ed. Giacalone, S. Ward, D. Drake, J.
,
Traﬃc Engineering (TE) Metric Extensions" RFC 8570 DOI 10.17487/RFC8570
March 2019,

,
,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8570>

, and

,
,

Filsﬁls, et al.

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 9256

SR Policy Architecture

July 2022

[RFC8664]

[RFC8814]

[RFC9086]

,

,

Sivabalan, S. Filsﬁls, C. Tantsura, J. Henderickx, W.
Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for Segment
Routing" RFC 8664 DOI 10.17487/RFC8664
.
editor.org/info/rfc8664>

J. Hardwick "Path

<https://www.rfc-

, December 2019,

, and

,

,

,

,

,

,
Tantsura, J. Chunduri, U. Talaulikar, K. Mirsky, G.
N. Triantaﬁllis "Signaling
Maximum SID Depth (MSD) Using the Border Gateway Protocol - Link State" RFC
,
8814 DOI 10.17487/RFC8814
.
rfc8814>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, August 2020,

, and

,

,

,

,

,
Previdi, S. Talaulikar, K., Ed. Filsﬁls, C. Patel, K. Ray, S.
Gateway Protocol - Link State (BGP-LS) Extensions for Segment Routing BGP
Egress Peer Engineering" RFC 9086 DOI 10.17487/RFC9086
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9086>

,
J. Dong "Border

, August 2021,

, and

,

,

,

,

<https://

[SR-POLICY-CONSID]

,

, and
Filsﬁls, C. Talaulikar, K., Ed. Krol, P. Horneﬀer, M.
,

P. Mattes "SR
,
Policy Implementation and Deployment Considerations" Work in Progress
, 24 April 2022,
Internet-Draft, draft-ﬁlsﬁls-spring-sr-policy-considerations-09
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ﬁlsﬁls-spring-sr-policy-
.
considerations-09>

,

,

,

[SR-POLICY-YANG]

,

,
,
Raza, K., Ed. Sawaya, S. Shunwan, Z. Voyer, D. Durrani, M. Matsushima, S.
V. Beeram "YANG Data Model for Segment Routing Policy" Work in

and
, April 2021,
Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-spring-sr-policy-yang-01
.
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-spring-sr-policy-yang-01>

<https://

,
,

,

,

,

,

[SR-TI-LFA]

,

, and
Litkowski, S. Bashandy, A. Filsﬁls, C. Francois, P. Decraene, B.
,
,
"Topology Independent Fast Reroute using Segment Routing" Work in Progress
Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-rtgwg-segment-routing-ti-lfa-08
.
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-rtgwg-segment-routing-ti-lfa-08>

, 21 January 2022,

,
D. Voyer

,

,

,

[SR-TRAFFIC-ACCOUNTING]

,

,

,

,

Ali, Z. Filsﬁls, C. Talaulikar, K. Sivabalan, S. Horneﬀer, M. Raszuk, R. Litkowski,
,
S. Voyer, D. Morton, R.
,
Networks" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ali-spring-sr-traﬃc-
, May 2022,
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ali-spring-
accounting-07
.
sr-traﬃc-accounting-07>

G. Dawra "Traﬃc Accounting in Segment Routing
,

, and

,

,

,

,

[SR-TRAFFIC-COUNTERS]

,

,

Filsﬁls, C. Ali, Z., Ed. Horneﬀer, M. Voyer, D. Durrani, M.

,
, and
R.
,
,
Raszuk "Segment Routing Traﬃc Accounting Counters" Work in Progress
, October 2021,
<https://
Internet-Draft, draft-ﬁlsﬁls-spring-sr-traﬃc-counters-02
.
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ﬁlsﬁls-spring-sr-traﬃc-counters-02>

,

,

Filsﬁls, et al.

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 9256

SR Policy Architecture

July 2022

Acknowledgement

Tarek Saad Dhanendra Jain Ruediger Geib Rob Shakir Cheng Li
,
The authors would like to thank
Dhruv Dhody Gyan Mishra Nandan Saha Jim Guichard Martin Vigoureux Benjamin Schwartz
,
David Schinazi Matthew Bocci Cullen Jennings
comments, and suggestions.

Carlos J. Bernardos

 for their review,

, and

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Contributors

The following people have contributed to this document:

Siva Sivabalan
Cisco Systems
Email:

 msiva@cisco.com

Zafar Ali
Cisco Systems
Email:

 zali@cisco.com

Jose Liste
Cisco Systems
Email:

 jliste@cisco.com

Francois Clad
Cisco Systems
Email:

 fclad@cisco.com

Kamran Raza
Cisco Systems
Email:

 skraza@cisco.com

Mike Koldychev
Cisco Systems
Email:

 mkoldych@cisco.com

Shraddha Hegde
Juniper Networks
Email:

 shraddha@juniper.net

Steven Lin
Google, Inc.
Email:

 stevenlin@google.com

Przemyslaw Krol
Google, Inc.
Email:

 pkrol@google.com

Filsﬁls, et al.

Standards Track

Page 33

RFC 9256

SR Policy Architecture

July 2022

Martin Horneﬀer
Deutsche Telekom
Email:

 martin.horneﬀer@telekom.de

Dirk Steinberg
Steinberg Consulting
Email:

 dws@steinbergnet.net

Bruno Decraene
Orange Business Services
Email:

 bruno.decraene@orange.com

Stephane Litkowski
Orange Business Services
Email:

 stephane.litkowski@orange.com

Luay Jalil
Verizon
Email:

 luay.jalil@verizon.com

Authors' Addresses

Clarence Filsﬁls
Cisco Systems, Inc.
Pegasus Parc
De kleetlaan 6a
1831 Diegem
Belgium
Email:

 cﬁlsﬁl@cisco.com

editor
)

Ketan Talaulikar (
Cisco Systems, Inc.
India
Email:

 ketant.ietf@gmail.com

Daniel Voyer
Bell Canada
671 de la gauchetiere W
Montreal Quebec H3B 2M8
Canada
Email:

 daniel.voyer@bell.ca

Alex Bogdanov
British Telecom
Email:

 alex.bogdanov@bt.com

Filsﬁls, et al.

Standards Track

Page 34

RFC 9256

SR Policy Architecture

July 2022

Paul Mattes
Microsoft
One Microsoft Way
Redmond WA 98052-6399
,
United States of America
Email:

 pamattes@microsoft.com

Filsﬁls, et al.

Standards Track

Page 35

