Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9753
8231
Standards Track
April 2025
2070-1721
C. Li
Huawei Technologies

H. Zheng
Huawei Technologies

S. Litkowski
Cisco

RFC 9753
Extension for Stateful PCE to Allow Optional
Processing of Path Computation Element
Communication Protocol (PCEP) Objects

Abstract

This document introduces a mechanism to mark some of the Path Computation Element
Communication Protocol (PCEP) objects as optional during PCEP message exchange, so the
stateful Path Computation Element (PCE) model can relax some constraints during path
computation and setup. This document introduces this relaxation to stateful PCE, and it updates
RFC 8231.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9753
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9753

Optional Processing of PCEP Objects

April 2025

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

2.  Overview

2.1.  Usage Example

3.  PCEP Extension

3.1.  STATEFUL-PCE-CAPABILITY TLV

3.2.  Handling of the P Flag

3.2.1.  The PCRpt Message

3.2.1.1.  Delegation

3.2.2.  The PCUpd Message and the PCInitiate Message

3.3.  Handling of the I Flag

3.3.1.  The PCUpd Message

3.3.2.  The PCRpt Message

3.3.3.  The PCInitiate Message

3.4.  Unknown Object Handling

4.  Security Considerations

5.  IANA Considerations

5.1.  STATEFUL-PCE-CAPABILITY TLV

6.  Manageability Considerations

6.1.  Control of Function and Policy

6.2.  Information and Data Models

6.3.  Liveness Detection and Monitoring

6.4.  Verify Correct Operations

6.5.  Requirements on Other Protocols

6.6.  Impact on Network Operations

3

3

4

4

4

4

5

5

5

5

6

6

6

6

6

7

7

7

7

7

7

7

8

8

8

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9753

Optional Processing of PCEP Objects

April 2025

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

8

8

8

9

9

9

 describes the Path Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP), which

[RFC5440]
enables communication between a Path Computation Client (PCC) and a Path Control Element
(PCE), or between two PCEs based on the PCE architecture

[RFC4655]
.

PCEP extensions for the stateful PCE model
enable active control of Multiprotocol Label Switching Traffic Engineering (MPLS-TE) and
Generalized MPLS (GMPLS) tunnels.
 describes the setup and teardown of PCE-
initiated LSPs under the active stateful PCE model, without the need for local configuration on
the PCC, thus allowing for dynamic control.

 describes a set of extensions to PCEP to

[RFC8231]

[RFC8281]

 defined the P flag (Processing-Rule) in the Common Object Header to allow a PCC to

[RFC5440]
specify in a Path Computation Request (PCReq) message (sent to a PCE) whether the object must
be taken into account by the PCE during path computation or is optional. The I flag (Ignore) is
used by the PCE in a Path Computation Reply (PCRep) message to indicate to a PCC whether or
not an optional object was considered by the PCE during path computation. Stateful PCE
[RFC8231]
 specifies that the P and I flags of the PCEP objects are to be set to zero on transmission
and ignored on receipt, since they are exclusively related to the path computation requests. This
document defines a new flag, the R (RELAX) flag in STATEFUL-PCE-CAPABILITY TLV, in the PCEP
common object header to indicate a PCE speaker supporting P and I flags processing, and it also
specifies how the P and I flags could be used in the stateful PCE model to identify optional
objects in the Path Computation State Report (PCRpt)
Request (PCUpd)

, and the LSP Initiate Request (PCInitiate)

, the Path Computation Update

 messages.

[RFC8231]

[RFC8231]

[RFC8281]

This document updates
of unknown objects in stateful PCEP message exchange.

[RFC8231]

 concerning usage of the P and I flags as well as the handling

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9753

Optional Processing of PCEP Objects

April 2025

2.  Overview

Setting the P flag in the PCReq message to handle unknown objects is as described in
of [RFC5440]
message in response to a failed LSP Update Request via the PCUpd message (for example, due to
an unsupported object or TLV).

 defined the usage of the LSP Error Code TLV in the PCRpt

Section 7.2

[RFC8231]

. Further,

This document specifies the procedure of marking some objects as 'optional to be processed' by
the PCEP peer in the stateful PCEP messages. Furthermore, this document updates the procedure
for handling unknown objects in stateful PCEP messages based on the P flag.

2.1.  Usage Example

The PCRpt message is used to report the current state of an LSP. As part of the message, both the
). For example,
<intended-attribute-list> and <actual-attribute-list> are encoded (see
the <intended-attribute-list> could include the METRIC object to indicate a limiting constraint
(Bound 'B' flag set) for the Path Delay Variation metric
useful to indicate that this constraint can be relaxed by the PCE in case it cannot find a path. In
these cases, it would be useful to mark the objects as 'optional' so they could be ignored by the
PCEP peer. Also, it would be useful for the PCEP speaker to learn if the PCEP peer has relaxed the
constraint and ignored the processing of the PCEP object.

. In some scenarios, it would be

[RFC8233]

[RFC8231]

Thus, this document specifies how the already existing P and I flags in the PCEP common object
header could be used during the stateful PCEP message exchange. The scope of how P and I flags
are applied is defined in
can only be applied to an entire PCEP object; they cannot be applied at the granularity of
optional TLVs encoded in the PCEP object.

 and is unchanged by this document. Therefore, these flags

[RFC5440]

3.  PCEP Extension

3.1.  STATEFUL-PCE-CAPABILITY TLV

A PCEP speaker indicates its ability to support the handling of the P and I flags in the stateful
PCEP message exchange during the PCEP initialization phase, as follows. During the PCEP
initialization phase, a PCC sends an Open message with an OPEN object that contains the
STATEFUL-PCE-CAPABILITY TLV, as defined in
to this TLV to indicate support for relaxing the processing of some objects via the use of the P
and I flags in the PCEP common object header.

[RFC8231]

. A new flag, the R (RELAX) flag, is added

R (RELAX bit - 17): If set to 1 by a PCEP Speaker, the R flag indicates that the PCEP Speaker is
willing to handle the P and I flags in the PCEP common object header for the PCEP objects in the
stateful PCEP messages. If the bit is unset, it indicates that the PCEP Speaker will not handle the P
and I flags in the PCEP common object header for stateful PCE messages.

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9753

Optional Processing of PCEP Objects

April 2025

MUST

 be set by both the PCC and PCE to indicate support for handling the P and I flags

The R flag
in the PCEP common object header to allow relaxing some constraints by marking objects as
'optional to process'. If the PCEP speaker does not set the R flag but receives PCEP objects with
[RFC8231]
the P or I bits set, it
 states that P and I flags of the PCEP objects
are set to 0 on transmission and ignored on receipt. It fails to mention the behaviour of objects
defined outside of

, leading to ambiguity.

 ignore the flags.

[RFC8231]

MUST

3.2.  Handling of the P Flag

3.2.1.  The PCRpt Message

[RFC8231]

 allows a PCC to specify to a PCE whether the object

The P flag in the PCRpt message
must be taken into account by the PCE (during state maintenance, path computation, or re-
optimisation) or is optional to process. When the P flag is set in the PCRpt message received on a
PCEP session on which the R bit is set by both peers, the object
 be taken into account by
the PCE. Conversely, when the P flag is cleared, the object is optional and the PCE can ignore it.
The P flag for the mandatory objects, such as the LSP and the ERO (Explicit Route Object) object
(intended path),
 be set in the PCRpt message. If a mandatory object is received with the P
flag set incorrectly according to the rules stated above, the receiving peer
message with Error-Type=10 (Reception of an invalid object) and Error-value=1 (Reception of an
object with P flag not set). On a PCEP session on which the R bit was set by both peers, the PCC
 set the P flag by default, unless a local configuration or local policy indicates that some
SHOULD
constraints (corresponding PCEP objects) can be marked as optional and could be ignored by the
PCE or the object itself conveys informational parameters that can be safely ignored.

 send a PCErr

MUST

MUST

MUST

3.2.1.1.  Delegation

Delegation is an operation to grant a PCE temporary rights to modify a subset of parameters on
[RFC8051]
one or more LSPs by a PCC as described in
. Note that for the delegated LSPs, the PCE
can update and mark some objects as ignored even when the PCC has set the P flag during the
delegation. Similarly, the PCE can update and mark some objects as a 'must to process' even
when the PCC has not set the P flag during delegation.

MUST

 acknowledge this by sending the PCRpt message with the P flag set as per the PCE

The PCC
expectation for the corresponding object. If the PCC cannot accept the update message, it
react as per the processing rules of unacceptable update in

Section 5.8.3 of [RFC8231]
.

MUST

3.2.2.  The PCUpd Message and the PCInitiate Message

[RFC8231]

 and the PCInitiate message

The P flag in the PCUpd message
 allows a PCE to
specify to a PCC whether the object must be taken into account by the PCC (during path setup) or
is optional to process. When the P flag is set in the PCUpd/PCInitiate message received on a PCEP
session on which the R bit was set by both peers, the object
PCC. Conversely, when the P flag is cleared, the object is optional and the PCC can ignore it. The P
flag for the mandatory objects -- such as the SRP (Stateful PCE Request Parameters), the LSP, and
the ERO --
the P flag set incorrectly according to the rules stated above, the receiving peer
MUST
PCErr message with Error-Type=10 (Reception of an invalid object) and Error-value=1

 be set in the PCUpd/PCInitiate message. If a mandatory object is received with

 be taken into account by the

[RFC8281]

 send a

MUST

MUST

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9753

Optional Processing of PCEP Objects

April 2025

SHOULD

(Reception of an object with P flag not set). On a PCEP session in which both peers set the R bit,
the PCE
 set the P flag by default unless a local configuration/policy indicates that some
constraints (corresponding PCEP objects) can be marked as optional and can be ignored by the
PCC or the object itself conveys informational parameters that can be safely ignored.

3.3.  Handling of the I Flag

3.3.1.  The PCUpd Message

The I flag in the PCUpd message
optional object was processed. The PCE
request and set the I flag to indicate that the optional object was ignored. When the I flag is
cleared, the PCE indicates that the optional object was processed.

 allows a PCE to indicate to a PCC whether or not an
 include the ignored optional object in its update

[RFC8231]

MAY

Note that when a PCE is unable to find the path that meets all the constraints as per the PCEP
object that cannot be ignored (i.e. the P flag is set), the PCUpd message
 optionally include
the PCEP objects that caused the path computation to fail along with the empty ERO.

MAY

3.3.2.  The PCRpt Message

[RFC8231]

 allows a PCC to indicate to a PCE whether or not an

The I flag in the PCRpt message
optional object was processed in response to a PCUpd or PCInitiate message. The PCC
include the ignored optional object in its report and set the I flag to indicate that the optional
object was ignored at PCC. When the I flag is cleared, the PCC indicates that the optional object
was processed. The I flag has no meaning if the PCRpt message is not in response to a PCUpd or
PCInitiate message (i.e., without the SRP object in the PCRpt message).

MAY

Note that when a PCC is unable to set up a path that meets all the parameters as per the PCEP
 optionally include
object that cannot be ignored (i.e., the P flag is set), the PCRpt message
the PCEP objects that caused the path setup to fail along with the LSP-ERROR-CODE TLV
[RFC8231]

 indicating the reason for the failure.

MAY

3.3.3.  The PCInitiate Message

The I flag has no meaning in the PCInitiate message
transmission and ignored on receipt.

[RFC8281]

, so the I flag

MUST

 set to 0 on

3.4.  Unknown Object Handling

This document updates the handling of unknown objects in the stateful PCEP messages by
[RFC5440]
setting the P flag in the common object header in a similar way as described in
is, if a PCEP speaker does not understand an object with the P flag set, or if the PCEP speaker
understands the object but decides to ignore the object, the entire stateful PCEP message
be rejected, and the PCE
"Not supported object"
and continue with the message processing as defined.

 send a PCErr message with Error- Type="Unknown Object" or

. If the P flag is not set, the PCEP speaker can ignore the object

MUST
[RFC5440]

. That

MUST

[RFC8231]
to convey error information. This document does not change that procedure.

 defined the LSP Error Code TLV to be carried in the PCRpt message in the LSP object

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9753

Optional Processing of PCEP Objects

April 2025

4.  Security Considerations

This document specifies how the already existing P and I flags in the PCEP common object
header could be used during stateful PCEP exchanges. It updates the unknown object error
handling in stateful PCEP message exchange. On their own, these changes do not add any new
security concerns. The security considerations identified in
continue to apply.

[RFC5440] [RFC8231]
,

, and

[RFC8281]

, it is

[RFC8231]

RECOMMENDED

As per
authenticated and encrypted sessions across PCEs and PCCs belonging to the same
administrative authority, using Transport Layer Security (TLS)
recommendations and best current practices described in

[RFC8253]
[RFC9325]
.

 that these PCEP extensions can only be activated on

 as per the

5.  IANA Considerations

5.1.  STATEFUL-PCE-CAPABILITY TLV

 defined the STATEFUL-PCE-CAPABILITY TLV and IANA created the "STATEFUL-PCE-

[RFC8231]
CAPABILITY TLV Flag Field" registry to manage the value of the STATEFUL-PCE-CAPABILITY
TLV's Flag field. IANA has allocated a new bit in the registry, as follows:

Bit

Description

Reference

17

RELAX

RFC 9753

Table 1

6.  Manageability Considerations

6.1.  Control of Function and Policy

An implementation supporting this document
 also
support relaxation of constraints in the stateful PCEP message exchange. They
allow configuration of related LSP constraints (or parameters) that are optional to process.

 allow configuration of the capability to

SHOULD

SHOULD

6.2.  Information and Data Models

An implementation supporting this document
defined in this document. To serve this purpose, the PCEP YANG module
extended in the future.

SHOULD

 allow the operator to view the capability

[PCEP-YANG]

 could be

6.3.  Liveness Detection and Monitoring

Mechanisms defined in this document do not imply any new liveness detection and monitoring
requirements in addition to those already listed in

[RFC5440]
.

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9753

Optional Processing of PCEP Objects

April 2025

6.4.  Verify Correct Operations

Mechanisms defined in this document do not imply any new operation verification
requirements in addition to those already listed in

[RFC5440]
.

6.5.  Requirements on Other Protocols

Mechanisms defined in this document do not imply any new requirements on other protocols.

6.6.  Impact on Network Operations

Mechanisms defined in this document do not have any impact on network operations in
[RFC5440]
.
addition to those already listed in

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC5440]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8231]

[RFC8253]

[RFC8281]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

 and

Vasseur, JP., Ed.
Communication Protocol (PCEP)" RFC 5440 DOI 10.17487/RFC5440
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5440>

JL. Le Roux, Ed. "Path Computation Element (PCE)

,

,

.

, March 2009,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Crabbe, E. Minei, I. Medved, J.
Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for Stateful PCE" RFC 8231 DOI
10.17487/RFC8231

R. Varga "Path Computation Element

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8231>

, September 2017,

, and

,

,

,

,

.

,

Lopez, D. Gonzalez de Dios, O. Wu, Q.
Provide a Secure Transport for the Path Computation Element Communication
Protocol (PCEP)" RFC 8253 DOI 10.17487/RFC8253
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8253>

D. Dhody "PCEPS: Usage of TLS to

, October 2017,

<https://

, and

,

,

.

,

,

,

Crabbe, E. Minei, I. Sivabalan, S.
R. Varga "Path Computation Element
Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for PCE-Initiated LSP Setup in a
Stateful PCE Model" RFC 8281 DOI 10.17487/RFC8281
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8281>

, December 2017,

, and

,

,

,

.

<https://

7.2.  Informative References

[PCEP-YANG]

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9753

Optional Processing of PCEP Objects

April 2025

,

Dhody, D., Ed. Beeram, V. P. Hardwick, J.
for Path Computation Element Communications Protocol (PCEP)" Work in
Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-pce-pcep-yang-30
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-pce-pcep-yang-30>

, 26 January 2025,

J. Tantsura "A YANG Data Model

<https://

, and

,

,

,

,

.

[RFC4655]

[RFC8051]

[RFC8233]

[RFC9325]

,

Farrel, A. Vasseur, J.-P.
Architecture" RFC 4655 DOI 10.17487/RFC4655
,
editor.org/info/rfc4655>
.

, and

,

J. Ash "A Path Computation Element (PCE)-Based

,

, August 2006,

<https://www.rfc-

Zhang, X., Ed.
 and
Element (PCE)" RFC 8051 DOI 10.17487/RFC8051
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8051>

,

.

I. Minei, Ed. "Applicability of a Stateful Path Computation

,

, January 2017,

<https://

,

Dhody, D. Wu, Q. Manral, V. Ali, Z.
K. Kumaki "Extensions to the Path
,
, and
Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) to Compute Service-
Aware Label Switched Paths (LSPs)" RFC 8233 DOI 10.17487/RFC8233
September 2017,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8233>

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

, and

Sheffer, Y. Saint-Andre, P.
,
Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)"
BCP 195 RFC 9325 DOI 10.17487/RFC9325
editor.org/info/rfc9325>

T. Fossati "Recommendations for Secure Use of

, November 2022,

<https://www.rfc-

.

,

,

,

Acknowledgments

Thanks to

Jonathan Hardwick

 for the discussion and suggestions around this document.

Thanks to
review comments.

Oscar Gonzalez de Dios Mike Koldychev Samuel Sidor

,

,

, and

Peng Shaofu

 for their

Contributors

Dhruv Dhody
Huawei
India
Email:

dhruv.ietf@gmail.com

Authors' Addresses

Cheng Li
Huawei Technologies
Huawei Campus, No. 156 Beiqing Rd.
Beijing
100095
China
Email:

c.l@huawei.com

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9753

Optional Processing of PCEP Objects

April 2025

Haomian Zheng
Huawei Technologies
H1, Huawei Xiliu Beipo Village, Songshan Lake
Dongguan
Guangdong 523808
China
Email:

zhenghaomian@huawei.com

,

Stephane Litkowski
Cisco
Email:

slitkows.ietf@gmail.com

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

